DRN-3091036
The complaint
Mr L complains that his balance on his account with Santander UK Plc (Santander) was 
wrong.
What happened
On 19 April 2021, at 22.22, Mr L received a balance alert showing he had £47.59 in his 
current account. But included in this balance was the direct debit to his mortgage for £806.10 
that was due to be paid the following day. When he received his statement, the balance on 
19 April 2021 was £853.69. In subsequent months, Mr L checked at the same point of the 
month again, and saw the same thing was happening.
Mr L complained that Santander seemed to be taking the direct debit a day earlier than they 
shouldve done. He said - if the direct debit was due to be paid on 20 April 2021, then it 
shouldnt show in his current account balance until then either. He said this was misleading 
and breached the direct debit guarantee.
Santander explained that their systems processes started to run from 20.15 on the evening 
before the payments were due the following day. But Mr Ls statements showed that the 
direct debit didnt go through until that day  20 April 2021. But they could see that it had 
caused him some inconvenience and paid compensation of £50.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that that was the way in which 
Santanders systems run. He could see that Mr Ls current account and mortgage account 
were updated on the 20 April 2021. No interest charges would be applied as a result of the 
balance being reported late at night on the previous day.
Mr L remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. He couldnt 
see that his account could be debited the day before the payment was shown on his 
statement. The debit to his account was apparently made on 19th, and not 20th April 2021.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Here we have a situation where Mr Ls balance is apparently updated with the amount of the 
direct debit late at night on the day before it is due. He noticed this on 19 April 2021  but 
also showed to us that the same thing happened in subsequent months.
We asked Santander several questions about this  as I also found it odd. They explained 
thats how their banking processes run. They start to update accounts with the following 
days payments and direct debits the evening before they are due  and these are then 
shown in the balance late on that evening. 
But importantly  I could see that Mr Ls statements for his mortgage and current account 
show his balances updated on the following day  when the direct debit was actually paid. 
Santander also confirmed to us that interest and charges on current accounts and 
mortgages arent updated until that day also. And they also told us that the previous days 
balance isnt used to make decisions on whether to pay, or not pay, debit items. So, for 
example on 19 April 2021 at 22.22, if Mr Ls balance was £47.39, a payment for £100 would 
be authorised and paid  and not returned unpaid. So, I think that these are the important 
points to consider here  Mr L cant be disadvantaged by paying more interest on his current 
account and mortgage, nor can payments be declined as a result of Santanders processes.
Mr L has said that what happened must be a breach of the direct debit guarantee. I dont 
think it is  as the direct debits are shown to debit his current account and credit his 
mortgage account on 20th monthly as intended.
And so  given what weve been told, it appears that this is just the way that Santander run 
their banking processes. And we cant ask them to change those  even if in this case, its 
caused some confusion and concern for Mr L. And equally, I havent seen that its caused 
him any financial loss. And so  I think Santanders explanation and the way they dealt with 
Mr Ls complaint was reasonable, as was their payment of compensation of £50. And so  I 
wont be asking them to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman