DRN-3075443
The complaint
Miss N has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIEL) unfairly declined a 
claim on her motor insurance policy. 
In bringing this complaint Miss Ns occasionally been helped by her partner. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to his comments as being Miss Ns.
Reference to AIEL includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss Ns car was stolen. She claimed on her policy and AIEL investigated it. It initially told 
her it would pay her claim but didn't do so. The car was then recovered by police but had 
been damaged. Later, around seven months after the theft, AIEL told Miss N it was refusing 
to pay the claim. It then returned the car to her, while she was away, without plates, tax or 
MOT.
In the meantime Miss N brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
26 August 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss Ns made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said and everything on file. But in this provisional decision I don't intend to 
address each and every issue. Instead Ill focus on what I see as being the key points at the 
heart of Miss Ns complaint.
After Miss N claimed for the theft AIEL appointed an investigator to interview Miss N. She 
told the investigator that she was given two keys when she bought the car. She said she 
now only had one key, her main key - which Ill refer to as key 1. She gave that key to the 
investigator. She said shed left the other key - which Ill call key 2 - at her ex-partners 
address which shed moved out of in a hurry because he was abusive. She provided AIEL 
with supporting evidence that her ex was abusive. She said that - because of his abuse  
she hadn't been able to get key 2 from him. She added that she believed he didn't know 
where she lived or kept her car.
Shortly after the interview AIEL emailed Miss N with an offer to settle her claim. Miss N 
accepted that offer and gave AIEL the relevant details to allow it to settle her finance and 
pay her any balance. But, it then received the investigators report, which said that there 
were some concerns with the claim because Miss N didn't have key 2 in her possession.
AIEL didn't settle the claim but instead decided to carry out further investigations. Clearly, it 
wasn't helpful that AIEL offered to settle Miss Ns claim before it had considered the 
investigators report. It appears the person making the offer was unaware of the concerns 
the investigator had raised. So AIEL shouldn't have made an offer to settle the claim without 
establishing the current position first. Or it should have been clear that the offer was subject 
to further claims validation which hadn't yet taken place. But AIEL didn't do that. As a result, 
it left Miss N with the impression that it would settle her claim soon. And I can understand 
how upsetting it must have been for Miss N to be told some time later that AIEL intended to 
do further investigations and then, some months further on, that it had refused to pay her 
claim.
Miss Ns said AIELs offer to settle the claim was contractual. By that I understand she 
means the offer, acceptance and consideration formed the basis of a contract that was 
legally binding. But even if I agreed that was the case, I wouldn't necessarily think it was fair 
that AIEL should be bound to pay the claim simply because it had made a mistake.
It might help if I explain that, as were an informal complaint resolution service, it's not for me 
to determine if an offer to settle a claim forms a binding contract. And while I will take the law 
into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable, my decision isn't bound by legal 
arguments around what constitutes a contract and whether or not thats been breached. And 
I don't think its fair to say that because AIEL made a mistake initially in saying it would pay 
the claim it should be bound by that mistake. That would especially be the case where a 
policyholder had used fraud or some other underhand means to persuade an insurer to pay 
a claim (I'm not suggesting that Miss N did that here). So I don't think that just because an 
insurer made an offer to settle a claim, which the consumer accepted, means that it would 
be unfair, in every case, for an insurer to alter or withdraw that offer later.
Further, Ive noted that Miss N told the investigator, some weeks before AIEL made its 
settlement offer, that she'd already bought a replacement car. So, unless she bought a 
second replacement car after AIELs mistaken settlement email, I don't think its mistake 
influenced her to buy a replacement car when she did.
And, when AIEL reviewed the investigators report, that raised some legitimate concerns 
about whether or not Miss Ns claim met the terms of her policy. So I think it was reasonable 
for AIEL to wish to investigate the matter further before settling the claim.
That said, AIEL progressed matters fairly slowly from then on, with unexplained gaps 
between significant action taking place. For example Miss N had told the investigator on 
11 December 2019 that key 2 was at her exs house and provided his address. But it wasn't 
until 4 February 2020 that AIEL told Miss N it intended to approach her ex to recover key 2. 
It could have taken that action much sooner.
At that time Miss N was upset because she thought AIEL had suggested she contact her 
abusive ex in order to try to obtain the spare key. But, in fact AIEL didn't ask Miss N to 
contact her ex. Instead it told her it had asked investigators to do so. I don't think that was 
unreasonable, although I understand the investigators didn't approach her ex in the end.
AIEL was clearly concerned that the car had been stolen with an original key. So it could, 
potentially, have been taken with Miss Ns consent. Alternatively it could have been stolen by 
an opportunistic thief who found the key left in the car. Either of those events would be 
significant. Thats because Miss Ns policy says AIEL can decline a theft claim where the car 
was taken by someone from her household or by someone known to her, unless she could 
show that they intended to permanently deprive her of the car. Further, theft isn't covered if 
Miss N left her key in or on the car. So, if either of those scenarios applied here then AIEL 
could fairly decline her claim.
While those investigations were ongoing the police recovered the car being driven on false 
plates. It had suffered some damage but was repairable. It was later confirmed that the car 
was recovered with key 2 in it. An engineer assessed the car. He said there was no sign that 
it had been stolen using force. In other words key 2 was used to carry out the theft.AIEL asked a forensic key specialist (the examiner) to examine key 1, which Miss N told 
AIEL was her main key. Amongst other things the examiner said the key showed evidence of 
light use but not the sort of wear that could be expected of a car of that age and which had 
travelled around 42,000 miles. He also added that:
The key blade is largely dull, indicating that it hasn't been used frequently in over a year.
AIEL interpreted that to mean that key 1 wasn't the main key but was Miss Ns spare key. So 
it felt key 2, which was found with the car when it was recovered, was the main key. It 
concluded that Miss N had given it her spare key, while saying this was her main key, in 
order for it to pay her claim. In other words it believed she had deliberately misrepresented 
the position and refused to pay her claim.
At Miss Ns insistence, around a month later, the forensic examiner also assessed key 2. Its 
not clear why AIEL didn't ask for both examinations to happen at the same time. However, 
the key 2 examination revealed that it had heavier wear than key 1, more akin to the mileage 
the car had travelled. And on that basis AIEL appears to believe this was evidence to 
support its analysis that key 2 was the main key and Miss N had lied to it about which key 
was the main and the spare.
But, similar to the findings for key 1, the examiner also concluded for key 2 that:
The blade is largely dull, indicating that it hasn't been used frequently for some time (likely 
over a year).
In other words, the forensic examiner apparently concluded that it was likely that neither key 
had been used regularly to drive the car for over a year. That seems unlikely. Miss N had 
clearly been using her car regularly  she used it to travel to work  prior to the theft some 
seven months earlier. So, if the examiners findings were accurate that would mean that 
there was a third  as yet unidentified  key that was the cars main key. There's no 
evidence that in fact a third key ever existed.
It follows that either key 1 or key 2 must have been used regularly in the car, at most, around 
seven months before the key examinations. So, while noting his expertise, I think the 
examiners estimate of how long one of the keys hadnt been used for was likely to be out by 
at least four months. And in fact one of the keys had been used regularly on the car, at least 
seven months earlier.
I note Miss N had given key 1 to AIEL in December 2019, and it hadn't been used since 
then. I think that could most likely account for the dulling of the blade because of the lack of 
use the examiner found. I asked AIEL to put this to the examiner and he said that neither key 
blade had shown evidence of frequent recent use without confirming how long that lack of 
use was.
Further, AIEL noted the examiners conclusion that key 1 didn't show wear consistent with a 
car that had driven 42,000 miles. Miss N pointed out that shed only owned her car for 
around six months and travelled around 5,000 miles in it. She was given two keys when she 
bought it, which both looked the same. And she didn't know which key the previous owner 
had used as their main key. So its possible that key 1, which Miss N treated as her main key 
was the previous owners spare key. That would account for the relatively light wear the 
examiner found on it.
This point was put to the examiner and he confirmed that the wear found on key 1 was 
consistent with a key that had been used regularly to drive around 5,000 miles. In other 
words, if Miss N used key 1 as her main key since she'd owned the car, then it would show exactly the sort of wear the examiner found. And if key 2 had been the previous owners 
main key, the wear on that was also consistent and would explain why the blade was 
relatively dull if Miss N hadn't been using it regularly. In other words the examiners 
conclusions supported Miss Ns position.
So it seems to me that AIELs conclusion, that Miss N had lied to it about which key was her 
main key was without foundation. To recap AIEL initially believed that key 1 hadn't been 
used for over a year, so couldn't have been her main key. That meant key 2 was her main 
key. But the examiner also initially found that key 2 hadn't been used for over a year either. 
As I've described above that clearly couldn't have been the case. So this should have 
prompted AIEL to review its conclusions. It didn't do so.
I noted that, in the evidence given to me, AIEL had little or no other evidence to conclude 
that Miss N has been anything but upfront and consistent with it about which key she had in 
her possession and where the other one was. And that evidence has now been supported by 
the examiners clarification of his analysis of the keys.
Further, I've seen that AIEL didn't ever receive a police report of the theft, even though it told 
Miss N more than once that it needed this and had requested it. I should add that I'm aware 
that the police often take many months to provide a report and this is a service they charge 
for. I asked AIEL why it didn't pursue the police report having told Miss N it needed one. 
AIEL told me it felt it had enough evidence, from Miss Ns statement about the 
circumstances of the theft, to decline the claim. So it said it didn't want to go to the expense 
of pursuing the police report. In other words it felt that it had proof that Miss N had lied to it 
without requiring further evidence.
I don't think AIELs conclusion is at all reasonable. In summary, its not in doubt that the car 
was taken with key 2  an original key that would have been given to Miss N when she 
bought the car. But Miss Ns been consistent since the outset that key 2 was at her previous 
home where her abusive ex still lived. So, its highly likely that whoever took the car acquired 
the key from that property. But, as far as I'm aware AIEL didn't consider this possibility. Ive 
seen no evidence that it asked the police whether consideration had been given to whether 
or not Miss Ns ex was complicit with the theft or if in fact they had made any progress with 
an investigation into the theft at all.
Also, as described above, the examiners evidence supports Miss Ns argument that key 1 
was her main key. I understand AIEL could have been concerned, at the outset, that another 
policy exclusion might apply, for example if Miss N had left the key in the car or the car was 
taken by someone known to her. But I don't think AIEL can fairly apply either of those 
exclusions now. There's simply no evidence Miss N left key 2 in the car. While that was a 
possibility, given Miss Ns plausible and consistent explanation for where the key was, I don't 
think, on balance, it would be fair to conclude that Miss N left key 2 in the car.
Further, it is possible that the car was taken by Miss Ns ex who did have access to the key. 
And he was certainly known to Miss N. Although I wouldn't consider him to be a member of 
Miss Ns family or part of her household. But I think Miss N could fairly easily show that  if 
her ex did take the car (and thats far from certain) then he certainly intended to permanently 
deprive her of it. That's because the car was only recovered some months later by the police 
while being driven on false plates. I think thats proof that whoever took the car, whether 
Miss Ns ex or someone else, had no intention of returning it to her and so intended to 
permanently deprive her of it. And Miss N had bought a replacement car in the meantime. 
So its apparent she hadn't anticipated getting her car back.
It follows that I don't think it was fair for AIEL to decline Miss Ns complaint on the basis that 
she had lied to it about the circumstances of her claim. It simply has no persuasive evidence that's the case and the examiners reports actually support Miss Ns statement. Further, I 
don't think it would be fair for AIEL to reopen its investigation into the claim now. It's been 
some 21 months since Miss N made it. AIEL could have obtained a police report or taken 
any other action it wished to during that time. But it chose not to. So I don't think it would be 
fair for it to take that action now. And, as I've said above, I can't see that AIEL could fairly 
say that another claim exclusion applies.
It follows that I think its fair and reasonable for AIEL to settle the claim now. I understand 
Miss Ns had her car repaired, at her own cost, and sold her replacement car. So on receipt 
of the appropriate evidence I think AIEL should reimburse Miss N the costs she paid for 
having her car repaired. That should include any hire car costs Miss N paid while her car 
was being fixed. AIEL should add simple interest to the amount it reimburses to her as set 
out below.
Further, Miss N found herself in the position of having to pay finance on two cars at the 
same time. I can also understand that the delay, the manner of AIELs claim handling, 
resulting in AIEL unfairly refusing it and unceremoniously returning her car to her without 
prior warning, has been a massive strain on her. In order to address her distress and 
inconvenience because of that I think AIEL should pay Miss N compensation of £750.
For completeness Ill add that Miss N said she thinks AIEL should cover the costs of her 
insurance with it, which she continued to pay between her cars theft in November 2019 and 
the policys expiry in May 2020. But I don't think that would be fair. When a cars been stolen 
or deemed a total loss, and the policyholder acquires a new car, its usual for the insurer to 
add the new car to the existing policy until its due to expire. Although there may be a 
change in the premium in order to do so. I asked AIEL why that didn't happen in this case. It 
told me that Miss Ns broker didn't ask it to add a new car to the policy. And in those 
circumstances I don't think it was AIELs fault that Miss N took out a new policy and paid a 
further premium for her new car.
Further, like all motor policies I'm aware of, Miss Ns policy says that if she makes a claim 
then no refund of premium will become due. And as this is a common term in motor policies I 
don't expect AIEL to highlight it. So, as Miss N made a claim on her policy she wasnt 
entitled to any refund of premium after her car was stolen. So I don't intend to instruct AIEL 
to refund any of Miss Cs premium.
 Developments 
Miss N said she thought AIEL were getting off lightly but accepted my provisional decision. 
She added that, as well as the work shed already had done to the car, it still has some 
scratches which happened while the car was stolen. She said she's yet to have these 
repaired and shes asked that the repair for those be included in AIELs claim settlement. 
AIEL didn't make any further comment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither AIEL nor Miss N objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it. 
If the further damage to Miss Ns car, in terms of scratches, was caused while the car was in 
the hands of the thieves or their accomplices then this is something that would be covered 
by Miss Ns policy. So, unless AIEL can show that the damage didn't happen while the car 
was in the hands of thieves, it should either have the further damage repaired itself or pay Miss N a cash-in-lieu settlement to allow her to pay for those repairs. AIEL should contact 
Miss N in order to sort this out. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above l uphold this complaint. I require Accredited insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Miss Ns claim subject to the remaining terms and excess of her policy. It 
should reimburse Miss N for the costs of car repairs and any hire car costs 
associated with the theft. It should add simple interest to the amounts reimbursed, at 
a rate of 8% a year, from the date Miss N incurred those costs to the date it pays her. 
And, unless AIEL can show that the damage didn't happen while the car was in the 
hands of thieves, it should also either arrange to repair any additional damage to the 
car caused while it was stolen or make Miss N a cash-in-lieu settlement to allow her 
to pay for those repairs.
Pay Miss N £750 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman