DRN-3440404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) declined their application to 
port or transfer their mortgage to a new property, after initially assuring them everything 
would be ok.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with YBS. An early repayment charge (ERC) was payable if 
the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 2022.
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs R asked to port their mortgage to a new property. YBS said 
porting was acceptable, subject to valuation. But in July 2022, the valuation showed that the 
property was a retirement property only available to people aged 55 or more. That wasnt 
acceptable to YBS. So Mr and Mrs R had to repay the mortgage an incurred ERC.
Mr and Mrs R complain that YBS didnt treat them fairly:
They had been loyal customers of YBS for many years.
They had previously ported the mortgage without any problems.
They went through a lengthy application process  and were assured that an offer would 
be with them before completion was due on 28 July 2021.
When YBS declined the porting application they were left with little time to reorganise 
their affairs and it was a huge financial shock.
YBS should have asked at an early stage whether the property was age exclusive.
They could have redeemed their mortgage in January 2022 without any ERC.
They want YBS to refund the ERC, the CHAPS fee and valuation fee along with 
compensation for the distress caused by the last-minute decision.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept what the investigator said. They re-emphasised their complaint 
and clarified that they didnt approach another lender as they didnt have time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs disappointment that they were unable to port their mortgage 
and incurred an ERC. They have acted reasonably and in good faith. The difficulty I have 
here is that so has YBS. So I dont consider that YBS has treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly or 
unreasonably. Ill explain why.
It was Mr and Mrs Rs decision to commit to a sale and purchase. But I cant see that YBS 
told Mr and Mrs R that it had approved their application to port their mortgage. Because Mr 
and Mrs R werent borrowing any more money and there were no material changes to 
affordability, YBS couldnt decline the application for affordability reasons. But it was 
reasonable for it to assess whether the property offered it suitable security. Im satisfied that 
YBSs policy did not allow lending against properties with restrictions that might affected 
future marketability and resale value, including retirement accommodation with restrictions 
around the age of a potential purchaser. It isnt in dispute that there was an age restriction 
on the property. So YBS has applied its policy when declining the porting application. 
Looking at the circumstances of this case, I dont consider that was unfair or unreasonable.
I know Mr and Mrs R think that YBS should have asked whether there were any age 
restrictions on the property at an early stage of the application. But in my experience, it 
would be unusual for a lender to explore in that much detail the type of property at that point. 
There are likely to be other types of property that it would not lend against. It would be 
impractical for mortgage lenders to go through every possible exclusion. It was reasonable 
for YBS to rely on the valuation when deciding if the property offered suitable security.
YBS progressed the application and valuation in a reasonable timescale. I appreciate the 
shock to Mr and Mrs R because they were due to complete their purchase only five or six 
days after they found out the application had ben declined. But I cant say that was due to 
any error by YBS. It follows, that I cant tell it to refund the ERC, CHAPS fee or to pay Mr 
and Mrs T compensation. I understand YBS has already written off/refunded the £200 
valuation fee.
When Mr and Mrs R took out the mortgage, they accepted the terms of the offer. That 
included that an ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 2022. As 
the mortgage was repaid before that date, YBS was entitled to apply the ERC. In view of the 
fact, it hasnt made any mistake here, I couldnt fairly say that it should be refunded. The fact 
that there was only around six months left of the tie-in period isnt relevant.
I know this wont be any consolation to Mr and Mrs R, but I appreciate how distressing it 
must have been to find out that they could not port their mortgage as they wanted, they 
would have to pay an ERC, and having to rearrange their finances at the last minute. 
However, I hope they can understand why YBS has not, in my view, acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So I cant tell it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman