DRN-3463191
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd did not do enough to help him when he fell victim to a
scam.
What happened
Mr F wanted to buy tickets for an international football game. He tried to buy tickets from
three separate places. Unfortunately, none of the sales were genuine. For two of the ticket
purchases, Mr F was ultimately able to sort things out. 
The tickets that are at the heart of this dispute were advertised on a social media 
marketplace by a person in Mr Fs local area. Mr F paid by bank transfer from his Monzo 
account and arranged to meet up so they could transfer the tickets to his app. The seller 
didnt supply the tickets and didnt refund the £825 Mr F had paid. Mr F contacted Monzo for 
help. He also contacted Action Fraud and his local Police.
Monzo investigated Mr Fs fraud claim and said it was not responsible for refunding the
money hed lost. The bank said it couldnt help any further and suggested that he submitted
a fraud report with Action Fraud if he hadnt already done so. Mr F disagreed. He said that
Monzo wasnt reading what hed said as hed already contacted Action Fraud. He made a
complaint.
On 29 July 2021, Monzo issued its first final response letter. It said it had reached the correct
outcome on Mr Fs fraud claim because he wasnt covered by fraud protection regulations.
It said that Mr F didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and what for.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. He remained in touch with Monzo and asked if
someone from the bank would speak to the Police. He asked the bank for more details about
what the fraud protection regulations are. He also asked the bank what was happening with
his fraud case and the payment of £825 as he was struggling financially.
Mr F made another complaint about Monzos level of service. He felt that Monzo was not
doing enough to help him given that this was fraud. He asked to close his account.
On 20 August 2021, Monzo issued its second final response letter. It agreed that there had
been gaps in the level of service that it had provided. It hadnt answered all of Mr Fs
questions and didnt give him the right information when it updated him. It paid him £50
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Whilst the complaint was waiting to be assessed by this service, the receiving bank agreed
to refund the full amount Mr F lost. Mr F told us that the fraudster had been taken to court
over the incident. Mr F explained that although he was going to be able to get his money
back, he felt that Monzo could have dealt with his claim and complaint better than it did.
Our Investigator then looked into the matter and concluded the £50 compensation Monzo
had paid was fair. He recognised that Mr F was frustrated but explained that as an app-
based bank, it was not surprising that Monzos primary method of communication was
through its chat function rather than by phone.
Mr F disagreed. He pointed out that Monzo had been very slow to respond to him and the
Police officer working on the matter. He thought Monzo should have kept him and the Police
more updated and provided copies of emails to support this.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
My further investigation
Upon review of the complaint papers, I established that over the course of this dispute,
Monzo has issued five final response letters, with the most recent on 31 January 2022.
Across the final response letters, Monzo has paid Mr F a total of £140 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience it had caused in connection with this situation.
I contacted Monzo to confirm the scope of the dispute. I asked the bank whether it would be
willing to be pragmatic and let us consider the situation as a whole without breaking it down
into individual complaints. I asked the bank about its timescale for returning the funds after
they had been returned by the receiving bank. Monzo suggested its normal timeframe was
between two and four weeks because of the internal processes and procedures it has to
adhere to.
I also contacted Mr F to confirm that hed already been paid more compensation than our
Investigator had discussed with him.
In summary, Mr F responded to say that the service he had received from Monzo when he
made his scam claim had been terrible. He explained the Police told him that the receiving
bank would refund the money, but he needed to contact Monzo and tell them to re-open the
case as the money would be sent to Monzo to then be sent to him. He explains that Monzo
initially refused to re-open his closed claim, which made the situation worse. He explains that
he was going backwards and forwards and getting nowhere.
Mr F explained that he had been waiting for a refund since July. He didnt consider that £140
was acceptable compensation for the amount of stress, telephone calls and chasing up hes
had to do. He said that Monzo should have taken responsibility for this matter in the first
place.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 28 July 2022. In it, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. My findings are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First, Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than
the parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what
I think is the right outcome. The main issue outstanding in this case is whether the
compensation Monzo has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint.
Mr F hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened as hes since been able to
recover the money he lost from the receiving bank. But Mr F has been clear that he
considers Monzo should have refunded him in full right from the very start because hed
been the victim of a scam.
Theres no dispute here that Mr F has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into making
the payments and didnt receive the tickets in return for his money. But this isnt enough, in
and of itself, for Mr F to automatically receive a refund of the money that was lost from the
bank.
For me to say that Monzo was responsible for reimbursing Mr F, I would need to be satisfied
that Monzo ought reasonably to have recognised Mr F was at risk of financial harm from
fraud at the time he was making the payments and the banks failure to intervene caused his
loss; or Mr F ought to be reimbursed under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement
Model (The CRM Code) that Monzo has agreed to adhere to. This means that Monzo has
made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment
scams except in limited circumstances.
Monzo considered Mr Fs claim. The two payments he made totalling £825 were
unremarkable and didnt stand out from his usual spending. So Monzo considered whether it
was responsible for refunding Mr F because of any obligation under the CRM Code. But it
said Mr F didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and what for. By making this
finding, Monzo was saying that Mr F failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM
Code for the payments he made. The bank did not think he had a reasonable basis for
believing the transaction he was making was legitimate. Whilst Mr F did not agree with that
position, Monzo was entitled to make that finding. This means that I dont agree with Mr F
that Monzo should have refunded him when he first raised the issue. Nor do I think that
Monzo ought to have done more than this, so whilst I appreciate Mr Fs position that he was
able to provide the bank with the account details of the perpetrator, it was ultimately for law
enforcement agencies to take any further action against the criminal.
I do recognise that communication between Mr F and Monzo did not go smoothly. Mr F has
described the six months of dealing with Monzo about this issue as utter hell and I can see
why he feels this way.
To begin with, they were speaking at cross purposes as Mr F had not appreciated that
initially Monzo had done all that it was able to do to assist him. It is clear from Mr Fs
questions to Monzos support team about relevant fraud protection regulations and his follow
up questions asking what was happening with his fraud case that Mr F did not understand
why Monzo was not responsible for refunding him or why the bank did not need to take any 
further action in relation to this matter.
This was not helped by the fact that Monzos customer service model meant that Mr F was in
contact with different agents who continued to discuss matters as they did not always
appreciate what had gone on before.As a further complication, Mr F initially had another claim about some of the other tickets
hed try to buy running alongside this one, but the conversations about the two claims took
place in the same online chat. By the end of August 2021, Monzo had paid £50
compensation to Mr F to recognise that its customer service had fallen short and Mr F
broadly understood that there was nothing further that Monzo could do to help him at that
time.
Mr F contacted Monzo again in October 2021 as there had been a development with the
Police investigation. Mr F explains that the Police told him to contact Monzo and ask for the
fraud claim to be re-raised. This was because the receiving bank had said it would refund
the money from its own funds, but the request had to come from Monzo so the funds could
be returned to Monzo and then on to him from there. Its clear that Mr F became caught in
the middle of Monzo, the Police and the receiving bank. Hes explained the Police told him
they were waiting on Monzo to reply to be able to progress with the court action.
The situation Mr F found himself in is unusual. In my experience, it is rare for a Police
investigation into a purchase fraud to have enough evidence to proceed to court action and
for a receiving bank to then agree to return funds. As such, I can understand why Monzo
didn't have specific processes in place for this situation. Whilst it was frustrating for Mr F to
try and act as the go between between all of the different parties, I can see why Monzo
initially said it was unable to revisit the claim and that it had already done all that it could.
I dont think it was unreasonable of Monzo to ask for the Police to get in touch with them to
better understand what was happening.
Mr F has my sympathies. Theres no question that he did a lot of the running to pursue this
matter and I dont dispute it was unclear what was happening and whether Monzo or the
receiving bank were at fault for the delay. Whilst things did take some time to sort out, I dont
agree that this automatically means that someone must have been at fault. We're all
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not unusual to experience a certain
level of frustration and annoyance when dealing with financial businesses.
From what I have seen, the receiving bank first requested Monzos settlement account
details on 3 December 2021. Monzo provided the information on the next working day. But
when the receiving bank responded, it asked for Monzo to send the details again. Once
Monzo had provided the information, there was little further it could do to move things
forwards. The bank did try to follow the request up.
Mr F was in contact with Monzo every few days throughout December looking for an update
on when he might receive the money back. But Monzo was right when it said it was unable
to give a set timescale for a response from the receiving bank, which meant there were
times when there was no meaningful update that Monzo could give. Ultimately Monzo was
waiting on the receiving bank to send the funds back before it could then forward them to
Mr Fs new account. Monzo had no control over how quickly the receiving bank was able to
action the payment. Monzo sent the funds to Mr F on 30 December 2021. Mr F received the
money shortly afterwards. From what Ive seen, Monzo handled this unusual situation as
proactively as it could. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Monzo is responsible for any
undue delay.
Mr F has strong feelings about this matter, and I do appreciate his position that he was out of
pocket and wanted his money back as soon as possible. Its clear that Mr F was annoyed by
how the banks systems and procedures are set up. But our rules only allow me to make an
award of compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes suffered in situations
where Monzo did something wrong or has acted unfairly.For the reasons I have explained above, I currently dont agree that Monzo made mistakes
or acted unfairly with the steps it took to try and support Mr F in the recovery of his funds
from the receiving bank. This means that I cannot fairly and reasonably make an award of
further compensation to Mr F.
Over the course of this complaint, Monzo agreed with Mr F that there were occasions when
its service fell below what he was entitled to expect. It paid £140 compensation to
acknowledge the inconvenience he was caused at those times. Looking at everything, I think
the steps Monzo has already taken are an appropriate resolution to this complaint.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Fs frustration with the unenviable situation he found himself in
through no fault of his own, I am ultimately unable to compel Monzo to pay further
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him in situations where the bank
has not done anything wrong and did not treat him unfairly.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr F responded but he did not add any further comments or new points for me to consider.
Monzo said it was happy with the assessment reached and had nothing further to add. 
Both parties are now awaiting my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above.
Overall, in all the circumstances, I remain satisfied that Monzo does not need to pay any 
further compensation to Mr F.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman