DRN-3850563
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided not to refund him after he was the 
victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr J has used a claims management company to bring his complaint. Ill refer to them as R.
What happened
Mr J said a close friend recommended an employer, where the job was to complete tasks on 
different social media sites to make money. The premise was that he needed to purchase 
packages which allowed him access to carry out tasks across several social media 
platforms, each task attracting a small payment 
Mr J says his friend showed him the app and platform he was using, and the profits he had 
made.
Mr J said he also researched the app, which had good reviews, and found the employer was 
registered on Companies House.
Mr J made serval deposits to access several different packages across a three-week period. 
He then started completing the tasks he was presented with in the app, and saw payment for 
his work accumulating in an online account. Mr J says he didnt attempt to withdraw any 
funds until mid-February, when the app appears to have stopped working and the scam 
exposed.
Below are the payments he made as part of this scam.
24/01/22 £100
28/01/22 £1,000
07/02/22 £700
10/02/22 £100
Barclays looked into things, it said it wouldnt be refunding Mr J as it wasnt a scam, the 
claim couldnt be reviewed under the CRM and it couldnt help any further.
One of our investigators looked into things, she said:
- She was satisfied that Mr J had been the victim of an APP scam and it did meet the 
definition for the purposes of the CRM. 
- Mr J had been introduced to the employer through a long-time trusted friend who 
showed him bank statements and said theyd been paid around £1,500 for the tasks 
they had completed. So she could see why Mr J was willing to reasonably risk £100 
as an initial payment (without carrying out any other checks beyond what his friend 
had told him).
- She thought Barclays should refund the first payment. But she didnt think Barclays 
needed to refund any further payments as she thought the premise for making 
money seemed strange. 
- The information Mr J was provided with to unlock further tasks wasnt credible 
enough for him to keep making payments. 
- He hadnt been making a profit when he made the further payments.
- The payees werent linked to the employer or the social media sites he was 
completing tasks for. 
Barclays responded to say it didnt agree that the complaint should be considered under the 
CRM. But did agree with the investigators recommendation to pay £100 but said it would do 
this as a gesture of goodwill, in an attempt to settle the complaint. 
R did not agree with the investigators findings they said: 
- The employer had a high functioning, quality app for the completion of the tasks  
which included a customer service live chat.
- Many workers were able to withdraw funds which made it convincing.
- Workers were added to a messaging group where they could see other workers 
withdrawing funds.
- The employer said it was linked to a well-known image sharing social media site.
- The employer shared its Companies House certificate within the messaging groups.
- The premise for making money through social media and liking posts is a growing 
area for making money.
- Mr J was referred by someone who was able to withdraw funds. 
- All victims were required to make payments to a number of different payees. 
- Barclays did not provide any warnings which would have otherwise made a big 
difference to Mr Js decision making.
Our investigator considered the additional points raised but said:
- She didnt agree that the app was high functioning or high quality, and in fact was 
basic. 
- The inclusion of a customer service live chat feature wasnt enough to persuade her 
that Mr J ought to have thought it was legitimate. 
- She accepted that Mr J says a close friend was able to withdraw funds and thats 
why she recommended a refund of the first payment he made. 
- She didnt think being added to a whatsapp group was credible in itself.
- The employer saying it was linked to an image platform and social media brand isnt 
enough for Mr J to have reasonably believed it to be legitimate. And the profit 
analysis document doesnt show the link either.
- Whilst Mr J was shown a Companies House certificate, he didnt complete any of his 
own checks or carry out any of his own research to ensure what he was being told 
was genuine.  
- Mr J continued to make payments without withdrawing any funds. 
- She didnt think Barclays needed to provide Mr J with a warning, given the value of 
the payments and his normal account activity.
The representative didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.Since then, we have asked Mr J about a transaction on his account which shows a credit 
from a crypto provider. We know that this employer often provided payment through a 
crypto wallet. Despite initially saying he didnt receive any returns from this employer he has 
now said that he did. And hes said that this was a small tester withdrawal that he made as it 
was during the time the employer said they no longer made bank transfers and instead 
processed withdrawals via a crypto wallet. We have asked Mr J to provide a transaction 
history of his crypto wallet, but hes said he does not have this.
Mr J hasnt provided any evidence of what his friend showed him prior to him deciding to 
make the payments, though we have asked. 
Mr J has also provided a contract of employment which provides details about promotion 
rules and payment which is dated 08 February 2022. Hed made three payments by that 
date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
I have considered this complaint, based on the individual circumstances, evidence and 
factors presented to me by Mr J and R. 
Is Mr J covered by the CRM?
Barclays doesnt accept that this complaint should be considered under the CRM as it 
doesnt believe this is a scam caught by it. But as I accept that Mr J initially entered into the 
scheme believing it was a legitimate investment or employment opportunity, I think it meets 
the requirements to be considered under the CRM Code. And Mr J made authorised push 
payments as result of being scammed. The LSB also clarified that pyramid schemes  which 
this scam appears to have some resemblance to -- arent inherently outside the scope of the 
CRM Code.
On that basis I have considered Mr Js complaint with CRM code in mind.
Did Barclays need to provide effective warnings?
I dont think Barclays was required to give effective warnings under the CRM Code, in these 
particular circumstances. I think this because the payment values were individually low and 
overall dont present a clear APP scam risk. Im persuaded that Barclays was entitled to 
consider there were no apparent APP scam risks here. So, I dont think it needed to provide 
warnings.
Did Mr J have a reasonable basis of belief?
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr J has told us happened, and the reasons Barclays 
says Mr J didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for proceeding with the payments or that 
the person (employer) he was dealing with was legitimate. 
I broadly agree with the findings made by the investigator, that Mr J may have reasonably 
proceeded with the first payment  based on a friends recommendation and seeing the app that the employer used. But beyond that initial payment Im not satisfied it was reasonable 
for Mr J to have continued making payments. I say this because:
- Mr J hadnt received any payment or made any withdrawals at the point he made the 
second or subsequent payments.
- The second payment was substantially larger than the first and therefore represented 
a higher risk. Mr J hasnt shown that he carried out any independent research about 
the employer prior to doing this. Ive commented on the information he says he did 
rely on later in my findings.
- Mr J said his friend showed him his bank statement to show the profits he made. But 
Mr J hasnt shared this with our service. So I cant be certain what Mr J relied on 
before deciding the make these payments. And I think this is important as this was 
what Mr J was key in him deciding to pay money as part of this scam.
- Mr J says he saw money going into his account with the employer. He hasnt been 
able to provide evidence of this, or any correspondence to show what he specifically 
discussed with the employer. The screenshots that have been provided of employee 
wallets dont appear to be linked to Mr J. I think its more likely he and his 
representatives have shared screenshots seen and shared generally (in a group chat 
on a messaging app) by people who were scammed by this employer.
- Mr J has shared screenshots of the messages shared on the messaging groups. Im 
not necessarily persuaded that this is what Mr J saw. And Im not persuaded the 
screenshots are Mr Js, as they appear to come from different phones. I think its 
more likely he and his representatives have shared screenshots seen and shared 
generally by people who were scammed by this employer. And because of this I 
havent been provided with evidence of what specifically enticed Mr J to spend 
money on this job opportunity or what made him think he was dealing with a 
legitimate company. 
- The employers registration with Companies House wasnt filed until 10 February 
2022, after Mr J had made all the payments. He cant reasonably have relied on this 
to believe the employer was legitimate as it simply didnt exist before then. I believe 
this is another document that has been shared as part of the wider group of those 
scammed, rather than something Mr J specifically saw, researched, or relied on, 
when deciding to make these payments.
- The employment contract containing the promotion rules and payment is dated after 
Mr J had made three payments as part of the scam. So, it seems unlikely he saw it 
before he started to send money to the scammer. The document itself is poorly 
presented and worded, with basic mistakes throughout. So, Im satisfied that Mr J 
ought to have been concerned when he received this. And after receiving it I dont 
think Mr J ought to have had a reasonable basis for believing that the employer was 
genuine. As Ive already said, I think this was the case by the time he made the 
second payment, but it was all the more apparent on receipt of the contract 
document. 
- Mr J told us the employer made payments through crypto wallets as it no longer 
made bank transfers. There isnt any reference to payment via crypto in the contract 
Mr J has provided. And I would have expected him to become suspicious if a 
legitimate company said it used to pay for work done by bank transfer but no longer 
did so. 
- Mr J initially told us that he didnt make any profit or income from this scam. But when 
later questioned about a payment into his account from a crypto wallet he said he 
had received a small tester payment. We know that payments were made in the form 
of crypto to wallets and Mr J has received some payment. But Mr J says he is unable to share his crypto wallet history with us so, Im unable to determine if he received 
any other payments from the employer or what his losses, if any, actually are from 
this scam.
- There are other points provided by both Barclays and Mr J that I havent specifically 
commented on but have considered. Ive commented on what I find to be most 
relevant and influential to the outcome.
Considering all of the above and based on the individual elements of this complaint, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund any more than it has already offered. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the offer made by Barclays to refund the first payment, of £100 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont recommend that it needs to refund 
anything further. 
Putting things right
Barclays needs to pay the £100 to Mr J. 
My final decision
I party uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman