DRN-4049037
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
They say that HSBC didnt do enough to protect them when Mr P became the victim of a 
scam and would like HSBC to refund the money they have lost.
What happened
Mr P was interested in cryptocurrency and joined a group on Telegram comprised of traders 
of crypto who gave good reviews of their investments and shared the profits they had made.
Soon after joining the group, Mr P was approached by an individual (now known to be a 
scammer) offering him an opportunity to invest in crypto.
Mr P was persuaded by the scammer to invest a total of £6,091.02 across four payments .
Mr P was then told by the scammer that he would need to pay further money in order to 
access his supposed profits. Mr P refused to send any more money, and the scammer 
became abusive to Mr P. He then realised he had been the victim of a scam and complained 
to HSBC.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs P brought the complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs P asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for them, so Ill explain 
why.
Was Mr P the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mr P has been the victim of a scam. He was 
contacted by an individual via Telegram who went on to persuade him to invest in crypto, 
and later attempted to persuade him to part with further money in order to access supposed 
profits. The scammer was also abusive to Mr P when he refused to comply. These are not 
the actions of a legitimate investment company.
Did Mr P authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr P isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr P authorised the payments in question here - he made 
them using his own debit card as he was convinced by the scammer to do so.
I do understand Mr P had been tricked into instructing HSBC to make the payments  but 
while Mr P never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact 
he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Mr Ps payments
After Mr P made his payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam. For payments made by debit card, there is only one method of potential 
recovery of the payments  instigating a chargeback to the merchant. 
However, even if a chargeback was attempted, this would likely not have been successful. 
This is because the seller of the crypto, C, was a legitimate crypto exchange and provided 
the services which were requested of it which was the crypto itself. Therefore, the 
subsequent loss of the crypto to the scammer is a separate matter  and so a successful 
chargeback would unlikely have been possible  so I dont think that these payments were 
recoverable once they had been made.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr P made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr P authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr P has made  and if HSBC should have 
intervened.
Having considered Mr and Mrs Ps account activity, none of the payments that were made 
as a result of the scam were sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to 
reasonably say that HSBC shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through without first 
getting in touch with them. The individual payments were not extremely high and were 
spaced out over a number of days  and while Mr and Mrs P didnt ordinarily spend this 
amount of money on an everyday basis, they had made large transfers before.
So, I dont think that there was anything that ought to have stood out about the transactions 
and triggered HSBC into further attention. And while the payments were being made to 
purchase cryptocurrency  not all such payments are a result of a scam. 
I understand that Mr P says that HSBC did contact him about the payments, and so it 
missed an opportunity to unearth the scam  but there is no record of any such calls taking place although HSBC has searched for them on its systems. So, I cant say that HSBC 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payments from being made.
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mr and Mrs P now find themselves in  they have 
been the victims of cruel scam  this is not in dispute. However, the loss that they have 
suffered is ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  not HSBC. And I cant ask 
HSBC to refund this loss to Mr and Mrs P when I dont think that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman