DRN-4344265
The complaint
Mr H complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt paid him the fair market value 
for his car following a total loss claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his motor insurance policy with Admiral. Admiral accepted the claim 
and agreed to a cash settlement. It said, eventually, that the market value of Mr Hs car at 
the time of loss was £7,955. Mr H didnt think this was right, so he asked our service for an 
independent review. 
The Investigator considered the information Admiral provided and made some enquiries of 
his own. He found the fair market value for Mr Hs car was £8,564. He recommended 
Admiral pay Mr H the difference, plus interest. He considered the impact this matter had on 
Mr H and found the £50 compensation already offered by Admiral was fair and reasonable.
Mr H accepted the Investigators recommendation. Admiral said the mileage on the car was 
a little higher than the Investigator had reasonably assumed and asked for evidence of his 
own valuations. The Investigator replied on 26 July 2023 explaining the mileage wasnt 
material enough to persuade him to change his recommendation and provided the evidence.
Admiral didnt respond to the Investigator further, despite several follow-up emails from the 
Investigator. Ultimately the Investigator gave Admiral a final deadline of 19 September 2023 
to respond. Admiral still didnt respond. As this complaint cant be resolved informally, I must 
now make a formal determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the evidence considered by Admiral and the Investigator. In the absence of 
further evidence and arguments from Admiral, Im persuaded by the market value reached 
by the Investigator. It follows I require Admiral to pay Mr H the difference - £609. Admiral 
should also pay Mr H simple interest at 8% a year on this sum from the date the original 
cash settlement was paid to him, to the date of settlement. 
Like the Investigator, I find Admiral did cause Mr H some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by providing incremental increases in its settlement offer following his 
challenges. Also like the Investigator, I find the £50 compensation Admiral paid Mr H fairly 
and reasonably reflects the impact this had on him. It follows Im not requiring Admiral to pay 
Mr H further compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr H £609, 
plus simple interest* at 8% a year on this sum from the date the original cash settlement was 
paid to him, to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman