DRN-1623046
 
Complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr H was sold PPI in connection with a credit card during a phone call in 2003.
The PPI cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months per claim if Mr H was off work sick 
or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked if Mr H was eligible for the policy and from what I understand of       
Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale Im satisfied that he was eligible.
Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. 
I think Barclaycard made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. The PPI appears to 
have been sold on the phone. Barclaycard no longer have a copy of the call recording  this 
is understandable given how long ago the sale took place. But they have provided us with 
call scripts from around the time of the sale which show that the representative would have 
been required to ask if Mr H wanted PPI. And I think its more likely that Mr H agreed to 
taking PPI and thats how it came to be applied to the account.
Barclaycard say they advised Mr H to take PPI. This means Barclaycard should have 
checked that the PPI was suitable for Mr H. I dont know if Barclaycard did all they should 
have done to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr H but I think the PPI was suitable for Mr 
H anyway. I say this because:
 The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs existing sick pay and would have 
been particularly useful when Mr Hs sick pay reduced to half. It would also have paid 
out if Mr H lost his job.
 
Mr H didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
 
The PPI was relatively competitively priced and I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest it was unaffordable to Mr H at the time of the sale.
 
Mr H could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mr H, Barclaycard also had to give him clear 
information so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its 
possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put him off taking it out.
I dont think better information would have put him off taking PPI. I say this for the same 
reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for Mr H.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclaycard mis-sold Mr H this 
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman