DRN-2098468
The complaint
Mr A complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) failed to credit a 
payment to his account.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr A set up a Ratesetter account and attempted to deposit £2,000 into it. 
He complains that two payments of £2,000 were taken from his bank account, but only one 
of these payments was credited to his Ratesetter account. 
Mr As bank told him that it had actually sent 3 payments for £2,000 to Ratesetter, one of 
which was returned to it. So it felt Ratesetter shouldve collected £4,000 from Mr As bank 
account. 
Ratesetter told Mr A that only two payments came through to it, one of which was declined. 
So only one payment had gone through successfully. And it felt it had acted correctly.
Mr A says that neither his bank or Ratesetter contacted him about the error. He believes he 
only got the missing £2,000 back because he spotted what had happened and contacted his 
bank. Hes frustrated that neither Ratesetter or his bank has admitted any fault here and 
would like to understand what went wrong.
Our investigator said Ratesetter had now shown evidence of three attempted deposits into 
Mr As account, but its records appeared to show that only one was successful, and the 
other two were declined. The investigator said he wasnt entirely sure why the error with the 
missing £2,000 had occurred, but he couldnt reasonably conclude Ratesetter had made an 
error. And he was glad to see Mr A had now had his money back.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with these conclusions. He said he wants to understand who was at 
fault for his money going missing. And pointed out that a separate complaint our service has 
looked at against his bank account provider hadnt found his bank to be at fault for the 
problem either. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, I am only considering the merits of the actions of Ratesetter here, not those of 
Mr As bank account provider. Mr A raised a separate complaint about his bank account 
provider regarding this issue, which has already been looked at by this service.
I can appreciate why Mr A is so frustrated about what happened here. And its clear he is 
keen to understand exactly what went wrong.
Weve undertaken investigations and Ive looked carefully at the evidence provided by 
Ratesetter regarding payments initiated on 12 December 2019. As our investigator noted, 
the details it has provided us from its systems appear to support its stance that it only 
successfully received and processed one payment into Mr As Ratesetter account. Two other 
attempted payments are showing as having been declined. 
I can see that in some of his correspondence Mr A has referred to the missing £2,000 as 
having been found when it was returned to his bank account. But although the money was 
returned to his bank account following a chargeback, thats not to say that either his bank or 
Ratesetter found the actual missing payment here.
Mr As bank raised a chargeback request through the third party card provider to try and 
recover the missing amount from Ratesetter on his behalf. In the meantime it temporarily 
credited Mr As bank account with an amount matching that of the missing funds. If the 
chargeback had been successfully defended by Ratesetter then Mr As bank would have 
taken this money back. But Ratesetter didnt seek to defend the chargeback, so Mr A was 
entitled to keep the refund. 
Ratesetter maintains that it wasnt at fault for what went wrong here. Its explained that it has 
no evidence of having received the chargeback request. And says that this is why it didnt 
respond to the request within the timescales applicable. As it didnt respond, the chargeback 
was deemed successful.
Its unfortunate that communication about the chargeback appears to have gone astray here. 
And Im rather frustrated on Mr As behalf that I havent been able to establish exactly what 
happened to the payment of £2,000 that went missing. But I havent seen any evidence that 
leads me to conclude that the payment failed to reach his Ratesetter account due to any 
mistake on Ratesetters part.
As Mr A has had the missing money credited back to his bank account, Im satisfied that hes 
not ultimately been left out of pocket here. He wanted to pay £2,000 to Ratesetter. And thats 
what happened. So whilst I havent been able to confirm exactly what went wrong, I dont 
feel I can reasonably ask Ratesetter to do anything further in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as Ratesetter, to 
take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman