DRN-2544067
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Monument Trinity A Designated Activity Company (Monument) turned 
down a claim she made on her income insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M has insurance with Monument which (subject to the terms of the policy) provides 
cover in the event shes unable to work due to accident or sickness or becomes involuntarily 
unemployed. In September 2019 Miss M resigned from her job. She says she was working 
in unpleasant circumstances and felt she had no choice but to do so. 
Miss M says she initially thought shed find a new role without difficulty but was unable to do 
so. She says the onset of the Covid 19 pandemic brought her job search to an end in March 
2020. At that point she contacted Monument and made an unemployment claim on her 
policy. Monument turned this down because it said her policy didnt provide cover for 
resignation or unemployment of a voluntary nature. It also said Miss M needed to be 
registered for job seekers allowance (JSA) which wasnt the case. 
Our investigator didnt think Monument had acted unfairly. At the point he reviewed matters 
Miss M was in receipt of JSA. However, he didnt think this affected the key point which was 
the policy only covered involuntary unemployment and that wasnt what had happened here. 
Miss M then said she was seeking to claim from March 2020 (which she told us was when 
some short term work she had managed to find ended). Our investigator noted the policy 
didnt cover unemployment where the policyholder hadnt been in continuous work for the six 
months before that employment ended. So he didnt think this situation was covered by her 
policy either.  
Miss M didnt agree. She argued she would have been able to find another job but for the 
pandemic and said as this was something beyond her control the policy should cover this. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Mounument has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy. I can see this covers 
involuntary unemployment and the definition of unemployment applying to Miss M is:
You are not working for one of the following reasons:
Your employer has made you redundant;
You have had to leave work to care for a relative for at least 35 hours a week (you 
will need to be registered with the Department for Work and Pensions as a carer) 
The policy also explains what it doesnt cover. That includes:
if the unemployment results from your conduct, including fraud, illegal activity, 
dishonesty, or anything that led or might have led to a disciplinary procedure, your 
resignation, any unemployment of a voluntary nature, or where you have taken early 
retirement
In this case Miss M told us that she resigned from her employer in September 2019. She 
wasnt made redundant by that employer and didnt leave to care for a relative. So I dont 
think whats happened meets the policy definition of unemployment. And in any case the 
what is not covered section makes clear the policy doesnt cover unemployment resulting 
from your resignation. 
I understand Miss M felt she had little choice but to resign from her role. But that doesnt 
change the fact her situation isnt one that meets the terms of her policy. Monument has said 
if Miss M were to successfully establish at Employment Tribunal shed been constructively 
dismissed it would be happy to review her claim.  I think thats fair.   
Miss M feels the claim should be covered from March 2020 as thats when the Covid 19 
pandemic prevented her from finding work. But, while I appreciate the difficulties that 
caused, for the reasons Ive explained her resignation in September 2019 isnt something 
that her policy covers. Her subsequent difficulties in finding work dont change the position 
on that. 
Miss M has also said she was able to do some work from home as a virtual assistant in 
February and March. But I dont think that changes things either. As our investigator said the 
policy doesnt cover unemployment: 
If you have not been in continuous work for six months, with one or more employers, 
immediately before your employment ended (for this purpose we will disregard any period of 
two weeks or less when you were not working)
Miss M hasnt said shed been in continuous work as at March 2020; in fact in her complaint 
to us she said her efforts to find work since resigning her previous role had been to no 
avail. Im not clear exactly what work she was doing in February and March but given the 
requirement to have been in continuous work for six months I dont think any claim relating to 
this would be covered either. 
I appreciate the reasons why Miss M was unable to find a new role were beyond her control. 
I was sorry to hear about the difficulties being without work caused her. But her policy covers 
involuntary unemployment as defined within the policy terms and conditions. For the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think what happened here is covered by that and I dont think 
Monument acted unfairly in turning down the claim she made. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman