DRN-4194618
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S was a deferred member of his former employers DB pension scheme in which he had 
accrued 13 years and 8 months of pensionable service, leaving the scheme in December 
2001. In late 2011, the trustees of the scheme wrote to the scheme members to make them 
a time-limited enhanced offer to transfer their benefits out of the scheme. The scheme 
trustees wanted to reduce their pension liabilities so they offered an enhancement to 
members who were willing to transfer their pension benefits to another provider. As part of 
its proposal, the scheme stated that in order to be eligible to benefit from the enhancement 
the members had to take independent financial advice from JLT. The scheme trustees gave 
the members three options: 
1. to leave their benefits unaltered in the scheme;
2. to transfer an enhanced cash equivalent transfer value of the plan (CETV) plus a 
separate additional enhancement to another pension arrangement; or
3. to transfer the enhanced CETV to another pension arrangement and take the 
additional enhancement as a cash sum. 
The scheme also said it was paying JLTs fees for providing the advice. Mr S accepted the 
trustees offer of free financial advice and met with JLT in December 2011 to discuss his 
former employers offer. 
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ss circumstances and objectives. It 
noted the following: 
Mr S was 58 years old, married with two dependent children (twins) aged 20 and in 
good health.
Mr S was self-employed, earning between £30,000-£40,000 per year. No details 
about his monthly outgoings were recorded. 
He owned a property worth £600,000 on which there was an outstanding £45,000 
mortgage. He had £40,000 in cash savings and £70,000 in other investments (ISAs, 
shares etc.). Mr S anticipated he would also use these assets to fund his retirement. 
Mr S had three pensions. One valued at £8,830 and one valued at £8,960  the last 
valuations for both being in 2007. The third pension was Mr Ss DB scheme.
Mr S planned to retire at age 65 and anticipated needing an annual income in 
retirement of £20,000.
Mr S wanted to use the additional enhancement on offer to boost his pension funding 
rather than take it as a cash lump sum. 
Mr S had very little life assurance cover
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Ss attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 45% 
balanced, 45% adventurous and 10% speculative. Mr S also disagreed with the statement 
that, once invested, the value of his investments may fluctuate. During a phone call with his 
JLT adviser however, Mr S assessed his attitude to risk (ATR) as 80% balanced and 20% 
adventurous. 
As required by the regulator, on 31 December 2011, JLT produced a pension transfer 
analysis report (TVAS) which stated that the normal CETV was £252,308 and the enhanced 
CETV was £341,328.40. The enhanced CETV included the additional enhancement of 
£10,000 offered by the DB scheme (which Mr S could take either as a cash lump sum or 
include within the CETV). 
On 16 February 2012, JLT sent Mr S its suitability report in which it advised Mr S to transfer 
his DB scheme pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a 
provider I shall call F, and invest 45% in a UK Equity Index Fund to match his balanced ATR, 
45% in a Global Equity Index Fund to match his adventurous ATR and 10% in a World (ex-
UK) Equity Index Pension Fund to match his speculative ATR. 
The suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were:
That Mr S wanted to use the enhancement hed been offered to boost his pension 
funding.
That Mr S had little in the way of life assurance cover and his dependents could do 
with the extra sums in the event he passed away before reaching retirement.
That transferring may provide Mr S with a higher amount of tax-free cash (TFC) at 
retirement which was important to him.
When Mr S retired he wanted his pension to increase to provide some protection 
against inflation. 
Mr S hadnt indicated that he wanted to move his pension to an individual plan that 
was under his control.
Mr S accepted JLTs recommendation and the transfer took place on 5 July 2012. The 
amount transferred was £350,729.43.
In April 2018 Mr S, having taken financial advice from another financial adviser, transferred 
his personal pension with F to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with a provider I 
shall refer to as T.
In late 2020 JLT wrote to Mr S about a review it was conducting regarding the advice it gave 
him in relation to his pension transfer in 2012. 
In January 2021 JLT wrote to Mr S to let him know the outcome of the review. It said that the 
advice it gave Mr S to transfer his DB scheme benefits had been appropriate based on his 
circumstances but that the investment funds in which he invested were not aligned to his 
personal circumstances. JLT went on to explain that it had carried out a calculation to 
ascertain if Mr S had been disadvantaged as a result of his investments not aligned to his 
personal circumstances and was pleased to note that he hadnt suffered any financial 
detriment. 
In August 2022, Mr S, through his representative, complained to JLT about the suitability of 
the advice it had given him to transfer his DB scheme benefits. Mr S said:
he didnt have much investment experience and had little knowledge of the financial 
markets;
he had little knowledge about pension products and was entirely reliant on JLTs 
advice;the CETV he was offered (including the enhancements) was £341,329 and 
represented his largest asset aside from his property. It also accounted for the 
majority of his income in retirement;
he had been approached by his former employer and knew nothing about JLT until it 
referred him;
he had never received any face-to-face advice, it was all done by post and over the 
phone. This was explained to him as being the level of service that had been paid for 
by his former employer and that any further advice would attract an additional cost;
he had made conflicting statements on the fact-find which demonstrated his lack of 
understanding. Mr S said that the fact-find indicated he had an aggressive ATR but 
JLT had advised him that, given the relatively short time to go until he retired, a more 
cautious approach may be advisable which is what was ultimately agreed upon; 
JLT hadnt explained to him that the death benefits associated with his DB scheme 
may be better than those associated with a personal pension. At no point had the 
option of life assurance been discussed; 
that had JLT been clear with him that remaining in the DB scheme was in his best 
interests he would have taken its advice and not transferred. 
JLT looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. It issued its final response letter on 
26 October 2022. It said it had made it clear to Mr S that as his DB scheme made up the 
majority of his retirement income provision he needed to consider his options very carefully, 
particularly as his preferred retirement age wasnt that far away. It also said Mr S had been 
fully aware of the benefits offered by his DB scheme and that by moving to a personal 
pension no such guarantees were provided. JLT said it had advised Mr S about the 
investment risks associated with a personal pension and that he fully understood that the 
value of stock market investments could fluctuate. It added that it had provided a focused 
advice process, restricted to the merits of transferring or remaining in the DB scheme, where 
no other aspects of financial planning were discussed. 
JLT went on to say that Mr S had taken notes during the advice calls and had made sure he 
had fully understood the decision he was making. And it said it was satisfied it had provided 
Mr S with sufficient information for him to make an informed decision on whether to transfer 
or not. Finally JLT said that its advice would have been no different regardless of the ATR 
Mr S had cited on the fact-find and, in any event, its review in 2021 had shown that despite 
his personal pension plan not being set up in accordance with his amended ATR, he had 
suffered no financial detriment. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to JLT, Mr S complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought that 
the transfer wasnt financially viable. He also thought that JLT had underplayed the death 
benefits associated with the DB scheme, hadnt considered the possibility of recommending 
life assurance to him and should not have prioritised the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement. Overall our Investigator thought 
the advice JLT gave Mr S wasnt suitable or in his best interests. He recommended that JLT 
pay compensation to Mr S in line with the regulators pension review guidance. 
JLT disagreed with our Investigators findings. It said it had made Mr S fully aware of the 
death benefits associated with the DB scheme and pointed out that its services had been 
engaged on a limited advice basis which was why it hadnt discussed life assurance with 
Mr S. JLT said it had reviewed the recordings of the advice calls it had had with Mr S and 
was satisfied that he had made an informed decision as to the merits of transferring or 
remaining in the scheme. It said it had placed no pressure on Mr S to transfer but had begun 
the first call by advising him that it was in his best interests to remain in the scheme. So it 
was satisfied it had advised Mr S in a balanced way and that Mr S fully understood what had been discussed. JLT said it was satisfied that it had made a recommendation to Mr S that 
was suitable for his personal circumstances. 
Our Investigator thought about what JLT said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLTs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
JLT carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ss pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). By the time JL produced its suitability report 
Mr S had turned 59 years old; he still wanted to retire at age 65. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match Mr Ss benefits at age 65 was 8.2% if 
he took a full pension and 6.1% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. Mr S indicated at the 
time of the advice that the ability to take TFC at his normal retirement date (NRD) was 
important to him so I think its reasonable to assume that Mr S would have taken the tax-free 
cash at retirement given that it is a tax efficient way of drawing down a personal pension. 
The critical yield of 6.1% per year required to match the occupational pension at retirement 
compares with the discount rate of 5% per year for 5 years to retirement in this case. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ss 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Ive listened to all the phone calls 
provided by JLT and I note it advised Mr S during the phone call that it may be in his 
interests, given his relatively close proximity to retirement, to adopt a more cautious ATR 
than the one hed cited on the fact-find. As a consequence of the discussion between Mr S 
and JLT it was decided that Mr S was more comfortable with an ATR that was 80% balanced 
and 20% adventurous. JLT went on to state to Mr S in the phone call that as that was the 
case he was probably looking more realistically of achieving annual investment growth in the 
region of 5% by investing in line with that ATR. 
So it is reasonable to assume, indeed JLTs adviser stated as much during the advice call, 
that Mr S was likely to achieve annual investment growth of 5% based on his actual ATR 
which is below the critical yield required to match Mr Ss benefits at his schemes normal 
retirement age of 65. There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to 
him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 6.1%, I think Mr S was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with a balanced attitude to risk. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ss proximity to retirement. The critical yield of 6.1% was only 
moderately higher than the discount rate of 5% but was lower than the regulators middle 
projection rate of 7%. So it could be argued that Mr S could have achieved the necessary 
investment growth to exceed the benefits offered by his DB scheme. But given the close 
proximity to Mr Ss retirement he would need to achieve investment returns that exceeded 
the critical yield by some margin in order to improve on his DB scheme benefits and thereby 
justify the transfer. This is because of the risk that his transfer might underperform and the 
limited time available to him before he reached retirement age. 
Ive thought too about Mr Ss capacity for loss. I can see that he had £40,000 in cash 
savings and £70,000 held in investments. And I can see too that he had over £500,000 in 
equity in his house. Notwithstanding this however, I cant ignore that his DB scheme 
represented the vast majority of his retirement provision; indeed he had only other two very 
small personal pension plans. Given the fact that Mr Ss other pension provision was 
negligible and that there was no likelihood that he would gain any further pensions in the 
future (aside from his state pension) he was highly reliant on his DB scheme for his 
retirement. So I dont think the fact that Mr S had moderate other financial assets meant he 
had the capacity to bear the loss of his DB scheme.JLT accepts that it invested Mr Ss pension in line with his ATR as recorded on the fact-find 
rather than the subsequent discussion during the advice phone call. It admitted this was the 
case having conducted a review of its 2011 advice in 2021. JLT said to Mr S that it had 
undertaken a loss calculation to ascertain if Mr S had been financially disadvantaged as a 
result of its error and it said that he hadnt. JLT said that the review and calculation were 
carried out in accordance with the general guidance provided by the FCA and that it 
engaged the services of a third-party firm to undertake it. As this service hasnt been 
provided with a copy of the calculations we are unable to confirm the methodology used by 
JLT. 
However, from the information Ive seen, it seems unlikely that a transfer was financially 
viable. So a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ss best interests. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as JLT has argued 
in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
In the suitability report JLT said that Mr S could only achieve control over, and flexibility with, 
his pension by transferring to a personal pension plan. That by doing so he would be able to 
decide what format his pension was to take once he was ready to draw his benefits. JLT also 
said that by taking personal control of his pension fund Mr S would also be taking on the 
associated investment and longevity risks. It said that staying in the scheme meant that his 
pension would remain under the control of the scheme trustees.
It's evident that Mr S could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr S had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr S had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. An advisers job isnt to simply facilitate a 
customers wants. Any objectives should be thoroughly interrogated to determine if they are 
realistic or not or achievable through other means. And ultimately the adviser had to 
determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits available through the DB 
scheme was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr S needed to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement. I can see from the TVAS that Mr S 
was forecast to receive an estimated annual pension from the DB scheme of £17,122 at his 
NRD. I can also see that he told JLT he anticipated needing an annual retirement income of 
£20,000. Whilst the estimated annual pension from the DB scheme at retirement would not 
have met Mr Ss retirement needs in full as noted in the fact-find, I still think he could have 
met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB scheme until age 65 and using his 
other pension plans, savings and investments to top up his income until his state pension 
became payable (presumably at age 66). Indeed Mr S indicated on the fact-find that he was 
prepared to do as much. 
Similarly, one of the objectives for the transfer noted by JLT in the suitability report was that 
it was important for Mr S to have the ability to take a tax-free lump sum at his NRD. But Mr S 
was entitled to TFC under his DB scheme at NRD so he could have achieved this objective 
by remaining in his DB scheme.
Nor can I see evidence that Mr S had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement such as can be provided by a personal pension. This is principally because Mr Ss 
retirement plans werent yet fully formed. During the advice phone call Mr S said that as he was self-employed he didnt really know when he was planning to retire. He said he may 
retire at 65 or he may keep working because he was in good health  he just didnt know yet. 
I understand that Mr S has started taking benefits from his pension about 15 months ago, 
when he was approaching age 70 but that he is still working and yet to retire. I also 
understand that the DB scheme rules were such that Mr S wouldnt have been able to defer 
taking his benefits beyond his NRD. Thus arguably Mr S has benefitted from the flexibility 
associated with his personal pension by being able to defer taking his pension benefits to an 
age of his choosing. 
But Mr S could have still continued to work and have been in receipt of his DB scheme 
pension from his NRD and used this to supplement his earnings. If he had no financial need 
at age 65 for the income the DB scheme would have given him then he could have invested 
or saved it. Mr S didnt need to transfer his pension in order to defer his actual retirement.
So without any realistic insight into what Mr Ss retirement lump sum and income needs and 
aspirations were it is difficult to understand how JLT was able to conclude that the transfer 
was in his best interests. I think that Mr Ss lump sum and income needs could all have been 
achieved without transferring and giving up his scheme benefits however, this doesnt seem 
to have been explored by JLT. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think JLT explored to what extent Mr S 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr S 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr S predeceased her. I dont think JLT made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr S. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
should Mr S live a long life his pension fund may have been depleted with little remaining to 
bequeath. In any event, JLT should not have encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr S genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think JLT shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that JLT has said that its 
services had been engaged to provide focussed advice on the merits of transferring Mr Ss 
DB scheme and that the advice was being paid for by Mr Ss former employer. JLT has said 
that it was not considering other aspects of financial planning which is why it would not have 
discussed the option of taking out life assurance cover so that Mr S could leave a lump sum 
to his loved ones on his death. But JLT was still required to have due regard to the interests 
of its customer, to treat Mr S fairly and make a suitable recommendation. As Mr S was 
attracted by the death benefits on offer through a personal pension it was JLTs duty to 
advise him of other means by which he could achieve his objective so that he could make an 
informed decision. This is the case regardless of the basis on which it had been retained to 
provide the advice.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr S, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr S should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary 
I dont doubt that the offer of an attractively enhanced CETV from his former employer, the 
possible financial viability of the transfer along with the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr S. But JLT wasnt there to just transact what Mr S might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr S needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests. By transferring out of his DB scheme, Mr S had to bear the 
investment risk for his pension fund something he had said on the fact-find that he wasnt 
comfortable with had he remained in his DB scheme, that burden would have been borne by 
the scheme trustees. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income which comprised the majority of his pension 
provision. By transferring, it meant Mr Ss retirement was exposed to investment risk and in 
my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer to outweigh 
this. Mr S shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his DB scheme just because his 
employer was offering an enhanced CETV or so he could access lump sum death benefits in 
the event of his death. By transferring, Mr S was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. 
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against JLTs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because Mr Ss DB 
scheme pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. And if JLT had 
provided Mr S with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve likely have accepted that advice. And I dont 
think the enhanced CETV wouldve been enough of an incentive for him to go against that 
advice.
Also Im not persuaded that Mr Ss concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise his 
former employer was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
JLT had explained that Mr S could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr S would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Like our Investigator I also think that Mr S will have been caused some trouble and upset as 
a result of realising he had been given unsuitable advice to transfer his pension. Where a 
financial business, through its words or deeds, causes a consumer avoidable trouble and 
upset, this service can require it to pay compensation. I agree with our Investigator that JLT 
should pay Mr S compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused 
as a result of worrying the transfer had caused him a financial loss. This amount is in line 
with awards made by this service in similar circumstances and is, I think, fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, had JLT properly advised Mr S, I think he would have started taking his scheme 
benefits at the schemes normal retirement age of 65. So compensation should be based on 
the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCAs 
guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge JLT for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, JLT should also pay Mr S compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset he 
was caused as a result of its unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman