DRN-2971440
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to prevent his loss or help him 
recover money hed sent to one of its customers as a result of an investment scam.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here. 
In summary, Mr A believed he was investing money into a bond with a legitimate investment 
company  who Ill refer to as J. Unfortunately, he was liaising with a fraudster and was 
tricked into transferring £50,000 on 6 March 2019 and £10,000 on 19 March 2019 from his 
bank account with R to an account held with Barclays. 
Mr A wanted to confirm the sums hed transferred had reached J. He tried calling the contact 
number hed been provided with, but there was no response. Mr A became suspicious. He 
independently obtained Js contact details and spoke to the genuine firm. J confirmed to 
Mr A hed fallen victim to a scam and advised him to contact his bank straight away.
Mr A reported the matter to R, who contacted Barclays. Following its investigations Barclays 
responded to advise no funds remained to be returned.
Mr A complained to Barclays as he didnt think it had done enough to recover his loss.
Whilst sympathetic to Mr As situation Barclays said;
 
- it was unable to recover and return any funds as they were utilised prior to it being 
notified of any suspicions relating to the account; 
- it complies with all regulatory requirements including identification and verification 
when opening and managing accounts  and confirmed all relevant checks were 
completed at the time the beneficiary account was opened; and 
- it explained when made aware of inappropriate conduct on its customer accounts, it 
will immediately investigate and take the necessary steps to close the account down 
and recover funds whenever it can. Unfortunately, it couldnt divulge information 
about the beneficiary or actions it had taken in relation to the account, due to data 
protection and to ensure it doesnt compromise any potential ongoing police 
investigations.  
Mr A remained unhappy about the weakness in Barclays internal systems which he believes 
resulted in his loss and referred his complaint to our service. 
Since bringing his complaint to our service Mr A has recovered half of his loss from R  so 
he is only seeking a refund from Barclays for his remaining loss. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do 
anything further. Overall, he couldnt fairly conclude that Barclays acts and/or omissions, 
when opening the account or when responding to notification of fraud had resulted in Mr As 
loss. He didnt think Barclays needed to provide Mr A with a refund for his outstanding loss.
Mr A was disappointed with the conclusion reached by our investigator  he asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr A, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr A has been the innocent victim of a cruel and callous scam. I 
know he would like Barclays to reimburse his remaining loss  particularly as it opened an 
account which facilitated the scam. And from his perspective, of course, I can see why it 
would feel unfair that he bears the loss. But an account found to have received funds which 
were made as a result of authorised push payment (APP) fraud doesnt automatically entitle 
the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it indisputably mean that the recipient bank failed 
reasonably to prevent the loss.   
However, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays carried out their 
due diligence at account opening and correctly opened the beneficiary account. So I dont 
think it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr As loss when opening the account which he 
was tricked into sending his payments to. 
Im also satisfied, the payments Mr A made were in line with the expected activity for the 
type of account that received the funds and its normal operation. As such, I dont think 
Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns where Id have expected it to have 
intervened. So again, I cant fairly conclude that Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent 
Mr As loss. 
And finally, upon notification, a receiving bank is expected to take action immediately to 
prevent any further loss of funds. Due to the nature of the account into which Mr As 
payments were credited, it simply wasnt a case where Barclays could block the beneficiary 
account and return any funds which remained. Here, upon receipt of an APP claim from 
Mr As bank, R, the correct process Barclays were required to follow was to, without undue 
delay make its account holder aware of the claim, request an update on whether any funds 
remained and upon receipt of this information update R.  
Whilst I can see Barclays did notify their accountholder of the claim and upon receipt notified 
R that no funds remain. I agree with our investigator that Barclays shouldve taken steps 
sooner than it did to try to ascertain if any of Mr As funds remained. However, on balance, I 
dont think its failure in doing so, resulted in Mr As loss. I say this because it is common 
knowledge that scammers do normally remove stolen funds as quickly as possible in order 
to avoid detection and recovery. In these specific circumstances Im further persuaded it 
wouldnt have made a difference as the nature of the services provided by Barclays 
accountholder meant that when a payment is received, it is typically immediately transferred 
out again. And here, Mr As payments credited the Barclays account on 6 and 19 March 
2019, and notification informing Barclays one of their accounts was in receipt of funds 
fraudulently obtained wasnt received until 25 March 2019. So in the particulars of this 
complaint I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of recovery even if Barclays had taken action on the day it received notification.  
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr A. But I can only make an award against a bank if that 
bank has done something wrong which has led to a loss. In this case, from what Ive seen 
there hasnt been a failing by Barclays which has resulted in Mr As loss. And as such I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask it to refund his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman