DRN-4280355
The complaint
Mr C  has complained about what Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of London (SOL) has 
paid in settlement of his claim under his Barge insurance policies for damage to boats 
belonging to him.
Mr C's  policies are underwritten by a syndicate at SOL and they have had various agents 
dealing with the matter on their behalf, but for the sake if ease Ill only refer to SOL in this 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint started in 2016 and there has been a huge amount of 
communication between SOL and Mr C and the various experts involved. But I do not 
consider it necessary to set out everything that has happened in detail and have instead 
provided a summary. 
It is not in dispute that in 2016 a boat belonging to a third party (which Ill refer to as A), 
which was also insured by SOL, collided with a houseboat belonging to Mr C (which Ill refer 
to as Y). This boat was moored alongside his two other houseboats (which Ill refer to as L 
and W). Mr C has said that the impact was severe and that this caused damage to Y and L 
and extensive damage to W. 
SOL accept there was a collision, but they do not accept the damage to W was as severe as 
Mr C considers it to be. They made a payment of £70,000 to Mr C in full and final settlement 
of his claim under the three policies and refused to pay any more. Mr C asked us to consider 
his complaint about SOL. 
One of our investigators did this and explained why she didnt think it should be upheld. This 
was because she wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence to show all the problems 
with W, which Mr C  had suggested were due to the collision, were directly related to it. And, 
in view of this and the policy terms, she was satisfied that Lloyds payment of £70,000 in full 
and final settlement was reasonable. 
Mr C does not agree with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Hes made several points in response to the view, but I have listed what I think are 
the key ones below:
1.Y and L have experienced ongoing issues since the collision, resulting in a loss of value  
due to persistent dampness, leaks and intricate piping problems with pipes that were 
damaged in the collision.
2.He was never given any advice on the best way to handle the claim, ie whether to claim  
as a third party against the policy covering the other boat or against his own policies.
3.SOL have provided a report that is most favourable to his case. This said the wooden  
structure on W had moved and twisted.
4.W was properly maintained and repaired constantly after the collision and it kept showing  
damage from the collision after each subsequent repair.
5.The boats were in outstanding condition prior to the collision and immediately after it they 
deteriorated rapidly, as they were never properly inspected and rebuilt. Surveys were  
carried out 11 months before and a few days before the collision and these showed W  
was in excellent condition and properly aligned.
6.The investigator not being persuaded that the collision is the sole cause of the damage is  
frustrating and simply incorrect.
7.At the time of the accident the tenant was happily living in W and was considering  
purchasing it. But within a week of the accident he began falling out of bed and the doors  
and windows stopped working properly.
8.He still wants SOL to pay him the policy limits of £450,000.
Mr C  has listed numerous other things that he thinks SOL have done wrong and, while I 
havent listed them all here, Ive considered them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for largel y the same reason as our investigator. 
And Ive explained wh y below.
When referring specificall y to surveyors reports or estimates Ive used the first letter of the 
forename and surname of the person who provide d the report or estimate, so that both 
parties will know whose report or estimate I am referring to, whilst allowing them to remain 
anonymous when this decision is published. 
I think before I explain why I dont think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld, it would be 
helpful for me to set out the cover under his policies and comment briefly on this. 
At the time of the collision Mr C had three policies with SOL covering each of his boats 
against physical damage. But these policies exclude damage cause by wear and tear, 
amongst other things. 
The policies each had a Total Value shown in the policy Schedu le. The Total Value for Y 
was £26,000, fo r L £35,000 and for W £145,000. 
The poli cy wording that applies to all three policies states the following:
COVER FOR THE VESSEL
Subject to the Conditions Precedent, limitations and other terms of the Policy we shall cover 
you in resp ect of physi cal loss of or damage to the Vessel and other property described in 
the schedule caused by:
(i) Accidents (including fire, explosion, collision, stranding, grounding and heavy
weather)
AMOUNT PAYABLE IN THE EVENT OF LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO THE VESSEL 
DESCRIBED IN THE SCHEDULETOTAL LOSS
CONSTRUCTIVE TOTAL LOSS 
We shall pay the value of the Vessel or its Boat(s) or outboard(s) as noted in the Schedule if 
the Vessel or its Boat(s) or outboard(s)
(i) is totally lost or destroyed;
(ii) the cost of recovering and/or repairing the Vessel or its boat(s) or outboard(s) will
exceed the value noted in the Schedule
The poli cy wording doesnt actually state anywhere exactly what SOL will pay in other 
circumstances, for example where the cost of repairing the damage does not exceed the 
value noted in the Schedu le. Pl us, the words Sum Insured a re not actually mentioned in the 
Schedule. This state s a Tota l Value and the n lists an amount for the Hull, Machinery, 
Equipment and Gear and an amount fo r Contents.
Howe ver, on a reasonable interpretation, I think it is fair to say th at the maximum amount 
SOL would have to pay on a single claim fo r each insured vessel is the Total Value listed in 
the Schedule. So, under the terms of the policy for W the most I would expect SOL to pay 
would be £145,000. And I woul d not expect them to pay more than £26,00 0 for Y and 
£35,000 fo r L, ie a ma ximum of £206,000 under all three policies combined. 
Having read the variou s survey reports provided I have no doubt th at the re was a significant 
collision betwee n A and Y and th at thi s in turn caused L and W to move significantly. And I 
dont think the re is any doubt, bearing in mind the way W is constructed, that this caused the 
superstructure on W to move and its frame to become distorted. And I m satisfied this impact 
caused damage to Y and L and significant damage to W. 
However, Im satisfied that the £70,000 paid by SOL under Mr Cs policies is enough to 
cover the cost of any damage caused to his boats by the collision and any associated costs. 
Ive set out my key reasons for thinking this below, as I do not consider it necessary to 
comment in great detail on the various survey reports on the incident giving rise to Mr C's  
claim and the damage it caused to his boats. But I do want to say that I understand Mr C's 
strength of feeling on the matter and that he feels W in particular has been severely 
damaged. And I do agree there is extensive damage to it. However, this doesnt mean I think 
what he has suggested it will cost to repair it is reasonable. 
All the survey reports Ive seen, apart from the one provided through the solicitor  
appointed by SOL, are  in my opinion - objective and indicate a significant amount of  
damage to W. But none of them persuade me the cost of repairs needed and associated  
costs would be more than the £70,000 SOL have paid in full and final settlement.
I find AMs report particularly persuasive. In his Executive Summary, whilst he concludes  
that there has been a very significant impact with structural consequences, he has said  
the racking (the action of rolling during the collision) damage to the wooden structure of  
W is limited, but has resulted in an isolated area of water ingress between the deckhead  
and bulkhead. In my opinion, this comment and others in his report do not suggest 
repairs anywhere near as extensive as Mr C has suggested are needed, ie those  detailed 
in KDs estimate.
The extent of the repairs set out as required in JWs second report to Ws superstructure,  
which he has described as not major and which he thinks could be carried out at Ws 
current birth, do not support the extent and cost of the repairs Mr C thinks are needed.Even CMs report, whilst suggesting more extensive repairs are required, does not to me
suggest these would cost more than the £70,000 already paid by SOL.
In respect of the points raised by Mr C in response to our investigators view I make the 
following comments:
1.I appreciate there have been issues with all three boats since 2016. However, I consider 
some of these, particularly those with W, are due to general wear and tear. And I am 
satisfied £70,000 is enough to repair the damage caused by the collision.
2.Mr C has also made a claim as a third party against the policy covering A. And additional  
payments have been made to him under this policy. But this does not alter my view that  
what SOL have paid under his own policies is fair and reasonable.
3.I agree AMs report, which is the one I am assuming Mr C is referring to, is favourable to  
his case. But I do not think it supports a payment of more than £70,000 in full and final  
settlement of his claim being necessary.
4.I appreciate work has been carried out on W since the collision and then further work has 
been needed, but I think much of this can be classed as general maintenance. And, as  
Ive said, Im satisfied the amount SOL have paid is enough to cover the repairs needed  
to W, L and Y as a result of the collision.
5.I would not say  based on the evidence I have seen  that the boats were all in  
outstanding condition prior to the collision. It looks like they were all in good condition,  but 
just as a result of their age, they needed normal ongoing maintenance.
6.For the reasons Ive explained, I do not consider the investigators opinion on the extent  
of the damage was wrong.
7.I accept that W was not sitting straight after the collision and this caused problems for  the 
tenant, but this does not alter my view that £70,000 is enough to repair the damage  
caused by the collision.
8.The policy limits combined do not add up to £450,000; they add up to £206,000. But I 
think £70,000 is all SOL needs to pay in settlement of Mr C's claim.
In summary, I am not persuaded the evidence Mr C has provided shows that SOL needs to 
pay anything more in settlement of his claim. Therefore, I do not consider it is appropriate for 
me to uphold his complaint and make SOL do this.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr C's  complaint about Society of Lloyds 
trading as Lloyds of London.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
Robert Short
Ombudsman