DRN-3878731
The complaint
Miss S complains Starling Bank Limited added her details to a fraud database.
What happened
Miss S tried to use her bank card, with a different bank, and it didnt work. Miss S was told 
the account was closing and directed to a credit reference agency.
Miss S found out shed been added to a fraud database by Starling. Miss S explained to 
Starling shed lost her phone around the time of the loading and been paid money by 
different people. 
Miss S didnt think the loading was fair as she didnt know what was happening at the time.
Starling responded to say it wouldnt be removing the fraud database loading. Unhappy with 
this response, Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Miss S complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought what Miss S had told Starling at the time of the loading, then in her 
complaint to Starling and what shed told this service was very inconsistent and vague.
The investigator was satisfied money coming into Miss S account was fraudulent, and 
Miss S had moved the money on very quickly. The investigator thought this showed 
complicity on Miss S part, so, in the circumstances, the fraud database loading was fair.
Miss S disagreed, and said she hadnt done anything wrong. Miss S also said shed told us 
the name of the person sending the money to her, so they should be the one in trouble, not 
her. Miss S also said she was young and nave, and the fraud database loading was having 
a significant effect on her being able to move on with her life.
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starlings provided a fraud report relating to one of the payments Miss S received. Im 
satisfied Miss S received money that was fraudulently obtained.
But this alone isnt enough to load a fraud database marker. Starling also has to show 
Miss S knew, or should have known, she was doing something wrong at the time.
Starling blocked Miss S card when it received the fraud report from the other bank. Miss S 
contacted Starling to ask to close her account, and Starling asked some questions about the 
credits. Miss S said the money came from her nephew.
When Miss S raised her complaint with Starling, two years later, she said the payments 
came from family friends. Miss S said the payments were for a hotel, and the reference 
trades was put in as this was the name of the hotel.
Miss S said she no longer spoke to the people that sent the money. And Miss S said she 
had no messages about the hotel as shed changed phones.
When the investigator asked Miss S about the payments, Miss S sent in a screen shot of a 
house available for short term rent. Miss S had sent a message to say she wanted to cancel 
the booking.
Miss S told the investigator when the booking was cancelled, shed had to return the money 
shed been sent. This was why shed moved the money from her account so quickly.
Id expect Miss S comments to Starling, at the time it blocked her account, to be the truth. 
The events had just happened, so things would be fresh in Miss S mind. Miss S mentions, 
to Starling, she cant remember things exactly when she complains two years later.
But Miss S has never mentioned a nephew in the complaint to Starling or to this service. And 
theres nothing to show Miss S booked a hotel, or anything to do with trades relating to the 
booking she sent screenshots for.
So even if I consider Miss S explanation now is correct, theres little to evidence this. 
Theres no hotel booking, and the movements on Miss S account dont seem to relate to any 
hotel booking. I agree with the investigator, Miss S submissions are very inconsistent.
When Miss S received the money into her Starling account, she moved it quickly to other 
accounts in her name. Miss S says she was told to do this by the person sending her the 
money. But this doesnt make sense if the payments were for a hotel booking or a refund.
Id either expect Miss S to make the booking or return the money through Starling. By quickly 
moving the money on, to stop Starling blocking access to this money, suggests Miss S knew 
the payments shed received werent legitimate payments.
Miss S says she lost her phone, and this could explain what happened. Starling has shown 
Miss S had one phone linked to her account until December 2020. A new phone was added, 
and Miss S was using this phone through most of December 2020 and into January 2021.
The fraudulent payment was received in February 2021. Im satisfied Miss S sent the 
payments from her account using a phone that had been registered with Starling for some 
time. I dont think the previous loss of Miss S phone is relevant to this complaint.
Miss S has also said she young and nave at the time this happened. Whilst Ive considered 
this, this doesnt explain the inconsistencies in what Miss S has said now. And it doesnt 
explain the transfers she did at the time.
Youth also doesnt explain what Miss S told Starling at the time the payments were received. 
Miss S was clear in what she told Starling, the payment was from her nephew, I dont think 
naivety would explain why she said this.
Miss S has mentioned the effect the fraud database loading has had on her, and I dont 
dispute it will have had a dramatic effect. But I have to consider whether Starlings made an error in adding Miss S details to the fraud database, not the effect of the marker.
Looking at everything Miss S and Starling have said, I dont think Starling has made an error 
in adding her details. Any effect this has had is the result of a reasonable decision by 
Starling, I dont think it needs to remove the loading just because of the effect its having. 
Miss S has said shes told this service who sent her the money, so they should be the ones 
getting in trouble, not her. But I cant decide what, if any, action is taken against another 
party not relevant to this complaint.
I have to decide if the loadings fair in all the circumstances of Miss S complaint, and I think 
it is. I think Miss S knew, or should reasonably have known, the money she received wasnt 
a legitimate payment. 
Because of this I think Miss S was complicit in allowing her account to be used to receive 
and move this money on, so I wont be asking Starling to remove the fraud database loading.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman