DRN-1379079
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt treated her fairly.
What happened
Ms A complains that Barclays:
Closed her account and sent letters telling her that by second class post.
Terminated a phone call with her on 2 June 2019.
Said it didnt receive letters from her.
Didnt cancel her telephone banking facility.
Sent letters to her in small print.
Didnt complete transfer she had instructed.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms A didnt accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
I was sorry to hear about the difficulties that Ms A will experience because Barclays closed 
her bank account.
As the investigator said, it is up to Barclays to decide who it wishes to offer a bank account 
to. I need to decide whether it acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Barclays terms and conditions say that it can close an account as long as it gives two 
months notice. In this case Barclays wrote to Ms A on 16 May 2019 saying it was going to 
close her account on 17 July. That was two months notice. It was reasonable for Barclays to 
send it by the method it did. And in any event, it told Ms A of its intention to close her 
account during a phone call on 17 May 2018.
I have reviewed the reasons given by Barclays for closing the account. I think it was 
reasonable for it to consider that the relationship had broken down and to close the account. 
Based on what Barclays knew about Ms A and her circumstances I dont consider that 
decision was unfair or discriminatory.
Terminated call
Barclays said it couldnt find any phone call with Ms A on 2June 2019. But it had already told 
Ms A that it wasnt prepared to talk to Ms A on the phone. I consider this was a reasonable 
decision. So it follows, it was reasonable for it to end a call if she did phone it.
Undelivered letters 
Ive looked closely at the evidence provided by both Ms A and Barclays. Im afraid what we 
do have doesnt suggest that there has been any error by Barclays in processing the letters. 
Telephone banking
It isnt in dispute that Barclays made a mistake in not cancelling Ms As telephone banking 
service in 2018 as she requested. So I need to consider the impact on Ms A. I cant see that 
Barclays mistake caused Ms A any financial loss. And Barclays has offered £75 for any 
trouble and upset it caused. Based on what I have seen, I consider this is a fair offer.
Small print
We have already considered a complaint from Ms A about Barclays sending letters to her in 
small print, when it knew about the adjustments she needed to be made. So I wont be 
looking at that complaint again.
Barclays has sent acknowledgement letters in small print. It has offered Ms A £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused her. In the individual circumstances of this 
complaint and in view of the content of the letters, I think this is fair.
Transfers 
The delay in transferring £900 has been dealt with in other complaints. I wont be dealing 
with that here.
I havent seen any evidence that Ms A requested any other transfers from her account that 
havent been made  apart from the closing balance of around £1,700 being transferred to a 
third party at her request. I dont consider that Barclays made a mistake here. If Ms A didnt 
receive that money, then that is something she will need to raise directly with the third party.
Despite requests Ms A hasnt given us details of what is wrong. Im not persuaded there has 
been a mistake by Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Ms A £75 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint  less any payments it has already made in respect of the above 
complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March  2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman