DRN-4046226
The complaint
Mr A and Ms D have complained that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) unfairly turned down 
their claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In November 2019, Mr A and Ms D bought timeshare membership points from a timeshare 
provider which I will call C, enabling them to exchange those points for holiday 
accommodation. The points cost £9,580 and Mr A and Ms D paid for this with a deposit of 
£500 and by borrowing the remainder from FHF.
In June 2022 Mr A and Ms D made a claim to FHF using a professional representative 
(AS). I have also seen a handwritten note from Mr A dated 9 April 2020 complaining about 
the timeshare, but it is not clear to whom this was addressed. In summary, the basis of the 
claim was as follows:
There were misrepresentations made about the timeshare and loan that FHF were 
jointly liable for under s.75 CCA.
There were unfair terms in the timeshare agreement and breaches of consumer 
protection legislation during the sale, that meant the debtor-creditor relationship 
between Mr A and Ms D and FHF was also unfair as per s.140A CCA. Further, the 
whole transaction was illegal as the timeshare was sold as an investment in 
contravention of both European and UK law.
At the time of the sale, the timeshare provider was not authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker loans. This meant there was a breach of s.27 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the loan was 
unenforceable.
C had not carried out proper affordability checks. 
The timeshare provider was now in liquidation, so Mr A and Ms D were unable to 
recover any amounts they may be awarded by a Spanish court.
To put things right, Mr A and Ms D asked for a refund of everything paid under the loan 
agreement plus interest.
FHF responded to the claim. It said that Mr A and Ms D had purchased membership and not 
fractional ownership. It also said that the arguments advanced by AS related to a completely 
different membership type to the one Mr A and Ms D actually bought. It said it believed all of 
Cs companies held the relevant licence when brokering finance. It added that Mr and Ms D 
had access to the resorts featured in their portfolio all year round.
FHF also treated the claim as a complaint, so it said that if Mr A and Ms D were not happy 
with its response, they could bring their claim to our service, which they did.
One of our investigators issued a view on Mr A and Ms Ds complaint, saying that she did 
not think FHF needed to do anything further. In summary, she said:
Under the rules that govern how our service can consider complaints, the complaints 
about the s.75 and s.140A CCA claims were made in time to our service.
There was little or no evidence as to what was said during the sales process and the 
training manual supplied by AS was not related to the timeshare in question. She 
didnt consider there was sufficient evidence to show misrepresentation.
Little detail was given as to the claim of lack of checks about the affordability of the 
loan and she could see no basis for upholding this element of the complaint.
There was no evidence that timeshare provider wasnt an authorised  broker at the 
time of the sale.
The fact that the timeshare provider is now in liquidation does not mean its 
customers are not getting what they should under the agreement.
AS responded on Mr A and Ms Ds behalf. It said it had concerns about the way the 
timeshare had been sold and how credit had been provided. AS asked that we submit a long 
list of questions to FHF. Our investigator explained that little testimony or supporting 
evidence had been provided by Mr A and Ms D and she had reached her conclusions on a 
fair and reasonable basis. She did not consider it necessary to ask further questions of the 
business. FHF said it had no additional comments to make.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
In this case, s. 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within s.12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect 
of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, 
who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr A and Ms D paid for goods or services using 
certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible. 
The key issue I need to decide in this case is whether FHFs decision to decline the s. 75 
claim was fair. To decide this, I must consider whether Mr A and Ms Ds claim meets the 
requirements of s. 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include the following points: (a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier; 
and 
(b) (b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the 
supplier. 
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider FHF 
to have acted unfairly when refusing Mr A and Ms Ds claim. Ill consider each of these 
points in turn. I note that there is no dispute that the required debtor, creditor, supplier link is 
intact.
Was there a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier? 
Turning first to misrepresentation; in summary, from what AS has told us, I understand Mr A 
and Ms D feel the product was misrepresented to them by the seller because they were told 
these were investments and there was sufficient availability of accommodation. 
Ive considered the common law position, as well as the Misrepresentation Act 1967 when 
deciding whether a misrepresentation is most likely to have been made in the circumstances 
of this case. For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier in 
the way Mr A and Ms D have alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, 
based on the available evidence, that the supplier made a false statement of fact when 
selling the holiday products in 2019. In other words, that they told Mr A and Ms D something 
that wasnt true in relation to one or more of the points they have raised. I would also need to 
be satisfied that the misrepresentation was material in inducing Mr A and Ms D to enter the 
contracts. This means I would need to be persuaded that Mr A and Ms D reasonably relied 
on the false statement when deciding to buy the holidays.
The claim is based on what Mr A and Ms D apparently told AS about what they were told at 
the meeting when they made the purchase. I am aware such meetings can last for a number 
of hours and the agents for D can be very persuasive. I recognise they will emphasise the 
positive benefits of memberships and the access to accommodation. That of itself does not 
demonstrate that statements were made which might amount to misrepresentation. 
The documentation I have seen clearly refers to the products not being investments and 
while they might be seen as investments in future holidays there is nothing I have seen that 
shows they were sold as financial investments. Nor does the paperwork refer to the ability to 
sell the memberships of points back. In fact it says the opposite.
Quite simply I have seen little or no evidence of misrepresentation. The claim is based on 
assertions made by AS with no testimony provided by Mr A and Ms D.
Breach of Contract
Turning to whether there was a breach of contract on the part of the suppliers; that is, 
generally speaking, whether the suppliers broke any terms of their contracts with Mr A and 
Ms D, whether implied or explicit. I havent seen sufficient evidence that D failed to comply 
with the terms of the agreements Mr A and Ms D entered into. 
Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
Mr A and Ms D have said that they do not recall any checks being carried out at the time of 
sale and AS says this means the lending was irresponsible. Our investigator said that she 
could not see any evidence that Mr A and Ms D found the loan unaffordable.When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether 
the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if FHF 
did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do 
something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr A and Ms D lost out as a result of 
its failings. Mr A and Ms D have provided no evidence whatsoever that they would have 
found it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
The effect of the timeshare provider being in liquidation
Our investigator did not think that the timeshare provider being in liquidation meant Mr A and 
Ms D were not able to get the things they were entitled to under the timeshare agreement. In 
response, I cannot see that Mr A and Ms D have made any claim that the agreement was 
breached. Rather, I think the complaint is that, as the company is in liquidation, it could not 
pay any sums awarded by a Spanish court. But I am not aware of any proceedings taken out 
against the timeshare provider in Spain that FHF could be liable for.
So I cannot see how FHF could be responsible for covering any amounts awarded in Spain, 
irrespective of the status of the timeshare provider.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr A and Ms D may 
have against D or FHF is merited and in time.  But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont 
think FHF has treated Mr A and Ms D unfairly or acted unreasonably so I cant properly 
require it to compensate them or do anything else. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman