DRN-3102975
The complaint
Mr P has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down his business 
interruption insurance claim after his business was impacted by the Governments response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr P held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. He claimed on his
policy after his business was impacted by the Governments response to the national
pandemic.
AXA turned down Mr Ps claim. It said the policy primarily covered business interruption
caused by damage and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage. It said it had considered Mr Ps 
claim under the extension for denial of access but this required the interruption of Mr Ps 
business to have been as a result of damage to property within one mile of his business 
premises. AXA said, while the extension for murder, suicide or disease provided cover in 
the event of a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed on the 
policy.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He said hed 
bought the policy to cover him for business disruption and unforeseen circumstances.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He
didnt think Covid-19 had damaged property and thought AXA had fairly decided that Covid-
19 wasnt one of the diseases covered by the policy. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He said the wording in the policy that stated, or human contagious diseases should cover 
Covid-19. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ps business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ps claim.
Damage
The main business interruption section of Mr Ps policy says:
If any property used by you at your premises for the purpose of the business 
suffers damage during the period of insurance, and as a result your business 
is interrupted or interfered with then we will pay you for loss of profit
Damage is defined in the policy as
Accidental loss or destruction or damage caused by
1 an insured Cause under the Buildings or Contents section
2 damage to fixed glass or damage to the shop front where shown as covered in 
your schedule. 
For this to provide cover, the interruption or interference with Mr Ps business would need to 
be as a result of damage, as defined in the policy, to property used by Mr P at his premises. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property used by Mr P 
at his business premises, so this part of the policy doesnt provide cover for the 
circumstances of his claim.
Denial of access
The cover provided by the policy is extended by various extensions. This extension says:
We will pay you for any loss insured by this section resulting from interruption of 
or interference with the business as a result of damage to property within a one 
mile radius of your premises which prevents or hinders the access to or the use 
of your premises whether your premises or your property within it suffers 
damage or not.
This extension therefore requires the interruption or interference with Mr Ps business to be 
as a result of damage to property within a one mile radius that prevents or hinders access to 
or use of his premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to 
property within a one mile radius of his premises that prevented or hindered access to or the 
use of his property, so I dont think this provides cover either. 
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference following:
the occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious or human 
contagious diseases suffered by any person at your premises or within a one 
mile radius of it
The policy then sets out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. Unfortunately, this 
extension doesnt provide Mr P with cover in the circumstances of his claim, as Covid-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed in the policy.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something AXA might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Mr Ps policy sets out a specified list of
diseases which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that
it provides cover for diseases not included, including any new ones which emerge. The
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific diseases.
There are in fact many diseases that the policy doesnt cover. Therefore, I dont think the
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases.I understand Mr P thinks that the words or human contagious diseases means that its 
separate to the list of specified diseases, but I dont agree. I think the use of the word 
following before specified human infectious or human contagious diseases indicates that 
the closed list applies to the extension. The structure of the sentence makes it clear that the 
list applies to both human infectious and human contagious diseases. In particular, as there 
is only one use of the word diseases, I dont think it would make grammatical sense for the 
list of diseases to only apply to the wording specified human infectious in this particular 
case. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Mr Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman