DRN-3035702
The complaint
Mr G and Ms C have complained about their car insurer, Rostella Limited. They feel it 
handled their claim for their stolen car poorly; offering an inadequate settlement and causing 
delays which resulted in their distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr G and Ms Cs car was stolen on 20 November 2020. Rostella asked Mr G to provide it 
with various pieces of information and Mr G replied on 21 November 2020. He then gave a 
statement on 27 November 2020 to a claim investigation company appointed by Rostella. 
The claim investigators made their report to Rostella on 14 December 2020.
It was 4 January 2021 before Rostella reviewed the details of the claim and the information 
Mr G had provided. Rostella then considered the value of the car. It told Mr G the maximum 
it would settle for. Mr G thought that was too low. He asked to see the valuation report to 
understand how that figure had been reached. When this was provided he noted the mileage 
used for the car had been wrong. He told Rostella the correct mileage (around 20,000 miles 
less). A new valuation report was completed. Rostella told Mr G it felt the pre-accident value 
for the car, using the accurate mileage, was £44,500 and Mr G said this was acceptable.
 
About two weeks later, in mid-February 2021, Mr G called Rostella as he hadnt received 
payment. Rostella said the payment hadnt been made because the claim was on hold. It 
didnt tell Mr G why that was. On 11 March 2021 Rostella told Mr G it wanted further 
information to validate the claim. Mr G was confused and frustrated by this  he thought the 
claim and settlement had been agreed a month and a half before. On 12 March 2021 
Rostella issued a final response to Mr G. It said it had caused delays in late December 2020 
by not acting quickly enough after the investigation report was received. And it also 
acknowledged it should have asked earlier for the further information it wanted Mr G to 
provide which it had only done on 11 March 2020. Rostella apologised but confirmed to Mr G 
that the enquiries were necessary, and it would welcome his cooperation.
At this time Mr G was reluctant to cooperate and still didnt understand why the claim was 
still unresolved. But in late March 2021 he did meet with a further claims investigator 
appointed by Rostella. On 21 May 2021 Rostella paid £44,200 into Mr Gs bank account (this 
being a composite sum of the cars value, the cost of replacing contents from the car and a 
deduction of the policy excess), concluding the claim.
Mr G and Ms C were pleased the claim had been concluded. But they remained unhappy 
about the course it had taken to get there. When our investigator considered the matter, she 
felt, similarly to Rostella, that the claim had been delayed following receipt of the initial 
investigation report and after the late January 2021 settlement offer was made. She was 
though satisfied that Rostellas request for further information had been reasonable. She 
took note of details Mr G had provided about how the delayed settlement had affected him 
and Ms C. She said Rostella should pay £200 compensation.  
Rostella didnt reply to our investigators findings. Mr G and Ms C said they didnt feel £200 
was sufficient compensation, given what theyd been through. The complaint was passed to 
me to consider. I felt Rostella should have handled the claim much more efficiently. I was 
satisfied that, because it hadnt, Mr G and Ms C were caused substantial distress and 
inconvenience, I noted that they had to make changes to the way they arranged their life and 
Ms C had no use of a car for significantly longer than she should have. So I felt interest 
should be paid on the claim settlement and that £1,000 compensation was fairly and 
reasonably due.  
Mr G and Ms C said they accepted my findings. Rostella said that whilst it accepted there 
had been failings  it was surprised by the amount of compensation Id suggested awarding. 
It said it felt compensation in the region of that suggested by our investigator (£200) would 
be a fair and proportionate outcome to the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisionally I said:
I think Rostella did fail Mr G and Ms C. And to an extent that it has previously not accepted. 
I think those failures, in the main, occurred before Rostella issued its final response to the 
complaint in March 2021 but their impact continued past that point until the claim was settled 
in May 2021. Therefore, despite the date of the final response letter, I need to consider what 
Rostella must do to make up for all the distress and inconvenience its failures caused. Ive 
set out my views on the complaint below and both parties will have chance to respond 
before I make a final decision.
 
I understand and appreciate that Rostella needed to validate the claim Mr G made to it. And, 
taking an overview of things for the moment, I think the detail Rostella asked Mr G for in 
March 2021 was reasonably required for it to do that. For example Rostella had noted a 
concern with the address for the car on the policy. So I think it was reasonable for it to want 
Mr G to provide proof of address details.
The difficulty I have is with Rostella only taking action to complete this key and necessary 
validation work in March 2021 when its concerns (about the address and in other respects) 
stemmed from key claim information provided to it in November/December 2020. Rostella 
asked for standard claim information from Mr G on 20 November and he replied to it with 
what detail he had available to him on 21 November 2020. And Rostella had the benefit of 
the claim investigation report from 14 December 2020. Yet it was only on 4 January 2021 
that claim validation concerns, such as with the address, were noted and highlighted. But 
then action wasnt taken in respect of addressing those concerns until 11 March 2021. That 
was not reasonable. I can understand why Mr G became frustrated.
In the middle of all that Rostella did try to give some thought as to what the claim settlement 
might be. But a delay was caused in this respect too because the wrong mileage had been 
used to value the car. Ive seen no good reason to account for such a big mistake being 
made in this respect. 
In my view Rostella should have managed and assessed this claim in a much more cohesive 
and far less piecemeal manner. I think if it had then its validation concerns would have been 
satisfied and a reasonable, correct settlement offer would have been put to Mr G by 
mid-January 2021. Mr G and Ms C would then have been able to replace the stolen car in 
relatively short order and the distress an inconvenience they suffered over the subsequent 
four months until settlement was made in May 2021 would have been avoided. In saying that 
Im satisfied that if things had been managed properly, with Rostella asking for the necessary information in good order, Mr G would have readily cooperated with it. So I need 
to think about what can make up for that. 
I think its only fair to award interest* on the settlement sum for the delay in payment. Quite 
simply Mr G and Ms C should have had the benefit of the settlement sum  which included 
payment for crucial car contents also lost in the theft such as the childs buggy and car seat 
 four months before they actually did. So Im going to say interest should be paid from 
15 January 2021, which is the date I think Mr G and Ms C should reasonably have received 
the claim settlement.
I also think the delay in settlement caused Mr G and Ms C a substantial amount of distress 
and inconvenience. I note from what Mr G and Ms C have told us that Mr G did have access 
to another car. Whilst that meant he could still get to work and to the shops etc, I understand 
Ms C couldnt use this car to transport their son. As such Mr G and Ms C had to make big 
changes to the way they normally organise their lives, including Mr G having to amend his 
work schedule. I understand that this also meant that Ms C wasnt able to get out of the 
house much as her health at the time meant she couldnt walk far, or carry car seats such as 
she would need to in order to use taxis and the like. I understand this affected her 
independence and the time she was able to spend with their son. And Im also aware that 
without the settlement for the car contents they had to find an alternate buggy and car seat 
from their own funds, which I accept was also frustrating for them. Finally Mr G has 
explained that Ms C is now more anxious about driving because she wasnt able to for six 
months  and I think four of those were due to Rostellas delays.
As Ms Cs loss of use of the vehicle has had a very significant impact on her life, the 
compensation award I make has to be substantial enough to reasonably take that into 
account. Alongside, of course, the other upset Ive detailed above. Im currently satisfied that 
£1,000 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. 
I appreciate that Rostella doesnt agree that £1,000 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. But I explained provisionally why I felt such a significant sum was due. 
And Im satisfied my provisionally suggested award is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances because Rostellas failure to handle this claim in a cohesive and timely 
manner had multiple and significantly negative impacts on Mr G and Ms C. Im also satisfied 
that its in line with other awards made by this service in similar circumstances.
Having reviewed the complaint in light of Rostellas objection to my initial findings; my 
provisional decision hasnt changed. As such, my provisional findings now form part of the 
findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Rostella to pay Mr G and Ms C:
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £44,200 from 15 January 2021 until 
21 May 2021. This sum is payable within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G and 
Ms C accept my final decision (if they do accept it). If it pays later than this it must also 
pay further interest* on the amount due applied from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment.
£1,000 compensation, payable within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G and 
Ms C accept my final decision (if they do accept it). If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Rostella considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr G and Ms C, it should tell them how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr G and Ms C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Rostella Limited to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman