DRN-1693025
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS)unfairly recorded a 
default on his credit file for non payment of excess mileage charges. He would like an 
apology, the default removed, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
 What happened
Mr B said he contacted BMWFS in December 2018 to arrange for his car to be collected as 
his finance agreement was coming to an end.  He says he knew he had used more than the 
agreed mileage. And that  he would  be charged for this. He says BMWFS advised him the 
approximate charge would be £250. And that he would receive an invoice for this amount.
He says he called BMWFS in January 2019 as he received a letter saying there was an 
outstanding balance of over £8,000. He says in this call he explained the car had been 
returned. And he was advised the letter was a mistake. And that there were no arrears on 
the account.
Later that month Mr B says £288 was taken from his account and . This was around the 
same time he got a letter about the excess mileage but no invoice confirming the amount 
owed was enclosed. He believed the payment taken from his account was for the excess 
mileage charge.
Mr B says he then got a letter in July 2019 saying he owed £286.42. But the letter stated this 
wasn't a demand for payment. A few days later he says a credit application he made was 
turned down. And when he checked his credit file he found an outstanding balance with 
BMWFS showing from January 2019.
Mr B says he doesn't belive BMWFS tried to contact him about the outstanding debt despite 
saying it did. He says its phone records don't record the times it says it left messages. The 
only three phone calls it has are when he called to arrange collection, when he called about 
the balance of more than £8,000, and finally when he rang when he discovered the problem 
with his credit file.
Mr B doesn't feel its fair that his credit file has been affected.
BMWFS accepted it had the wrong email address for Mr B .But said it had also left 
messages on his work voicemail.
Our investigator upheld Mr B's complaint. He found that BMWFS hadn't made sufficient 
effort to contact Mr B. He felt it should have written to Mr B before defaulting his account. 
And that he was persuaded that Mr B would have made the payment had he been made 
aware of it. As Mr B had now paid the sum owing he recommended that BMWFS show the 
account as settled on time and that any adverse information on Mr B's credit file be 
removed.Mr B accepted this view but BMWFS didn't. It said its records showed it attempted to contact 
Mr B by post and email. And felt it had done enough to make Mr B aware of the debt. It felt it 
was unfair , without any proof, to accept Mr B's word that voicemail messages hadn't been 
left. And finally it noted that it had an obligation to record accurate information on credit files 
which is what it felt it had done.
Our investigator considered BMWFS's comments but didn't change his view. He said he was 
still of the view that a postal invoice and default notice should have been posted to Mr B. He 
felt had BMWFS done this Mr B would have made the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't think there is any dispute that Mr B incurred an excess miles  charge when he ended 
his Hire Purchase Agreement with BMWFS. Or that BMWFS put a default on his credit file 
when he didn't make this payment.
The main issue is that Mr B says, whilst he knew he had an excess mileage charge to pay, 
he never received an invoice for this. And believed a payment taken from his account for 
£288 in January 2019 was for the excess mileage charge.
BMWFS says it defaulted Mr B's credit file as it tried several times to contact him about the 
arrears on his account but was unable to reach him. 
I've looked at all the records of contact between Mr B and BMWFS including listening to 
three phone calls between them.
It's clear that Mr B knew he needed to pay for excess miles - he acknowledged that in a 
phone call when he called to arrange for his car to be collected in January 2019. In this call 
he is told that he will be sent an invoice within 14 days.
I can't see that  BMWFS ever sent Mr B an invoice. It sent a notice of sums in arrears letter 
dated 16 January 2019. This letter said Mr B owed £8,715 .
In the same month BMWFS took a payment of £288 from Mr B's account. And sent Mr B a 
letter about the excess mileage charge saying it included an invoice for this sum . The letter, 
which I have read, didn't specify how much the charge was..  I haven't seen any evidence 
that the invoice was included with the letter.
Mr B made his second call to BMWFS on 18 January 2019 in relation to the letter saying he 
owed £8,715. BMWFS confirms this letter was sent in error.  The £8,715 was the final 
balloon payment for the car. But Mr B didn't need to pay this as he had returned the car. No 
mention is made in this phone call of any other outstanding payment.
So I think in January 2019 it wasn't unreasonable for Mr B to conclude the £288 payment 
taken from his account was for the excess mileage charge. It's about the sum he expected to 
pay. And he had received a letter about this , although the letter didn't specify the sum 
owing.
The call notes then indicate Mr B contacted BMWFS on 20 February 2019 but I haven't had 
a copy of this phone call to listen to. So I don't know what prompted this call. The notes say 
Mr B queried the excess miles charge which he believed he had already paid. BMWFS 
explained that the payment it had taken in January 2019 for £288 was an arrangement fee. The excess mileage charge was still outstanding.
It seems Mr B asked for a copy of his agreement, BMWFS said it would email it  that day, 
which according to its notes it did. Mr B said he would check the agreement and then call 
back to make a payment. It seems there was no more contact from Mr B until he realised a 
default had been put on his credit file, and received an annual statement showing the 
outstanding amount owing leading to him contacting  BMWS in July 2019.
The notes also show that BMWFS emailed and left a voicemail message for Mr B asking him 
to get in touch about his agreement on 16 February 2019 and 7 March 2019. It seems to be 
accepted BMWFS didn't have the correct email address - as it checked the email address in 
each of the phone calls I listened to I don't know why that wasn't picked up then. The quality 
of the call recordings was variable but it seemed to me that BMWFS quoted the wrong email 
address in those calls. So I am surprised Mr B didn't pick up on this. Having said that the 
actual and incorrect email addresses were very similar so I think it was an easy mistake to 
make.
Mr B says he doesn't believe those calls were made. I think its unlikely they would appear in 
the contact notes if they hadn't been made. And we would normally expect a 
business to  contact consumers about outstanding debts
However, I haven't seen any evidence ,and BMWFS hasn't disputed the fact it didn't send 
out  letters either to advise of a possible default and then to say a default had been 
registered. And the emails it sent to Mr B didn't say if Mr  B didn't pay the excess mileage 
charge he might get a default on this credit file. And I can't see , in the customer notes, that 
any reference was made to this prior to it happening.
For this reason I think as Mr B had no warning of a default being put on his credit file it would 
be reasonable ,now he has paid the outstanding amount, to remove the default from his 
credit file.
Mr B has also asked for an  apology and for financial compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
It's always difficult to ask someone to make an apology. In this case although I  think that 
BMWFS should have advised Mr B of a possible default I think it I  believe it did make efforts 
to contact Mr B about the outstanding payment. I am also  not sure of the value of an 
apology when someone is asked to give one.
I am also not going to make any award for financial compensation. I think BMWFS should 
have advised Mr B of a potential default. And I can see this would have caused some 
inconvenience if, as a result, Mr B had a credit application turned down  Although Mr B 
hasn't given us any actual evidence of this.
However, I think Mr B could have been more proactive in resolving the problem.  When he 
didn't get the copy of the agreement he requested on 20 February 2019 he could have 
chased this up. This would then have uncovered the problem with the email address. And  
meant he  should have then received the chasing email BMWFS sent on 7 March 2019.
It seems after his contact in February 2019 Mr B didn't contact BMWFS again until July 2019 
when he got an annual statement showing the debt, and  he  realised there was a problem 
with his credit file despite knowing in  February 2019 there was an outstanding payment he 
needed to make.
Putting things rightMy final decision is that i uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should remove the default 
from Mr B's credit file.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman