DRN-2679675
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund payments he made after 
falling victim to an investment scam.
 
What happened
In 2019, Mr P was online looking for a high interest investment opportunity. He says he 
found the website of a company Ill refer to as A and submitted his details. He got a call from 
someone working for A, who asked general questions about Mr Ps finances and then 
passed him through to someone introduced to Mr P as an investment manager. 
Over the next few weeks Mr P was in contact with the representative via email. They sent 
him a copy of their prospectus which set out the investments they offered, and all of the 
emails appeared to come from an email address held by A. Mr P was offered a fixed income 
fund investment with a rate of 8% per annum. Mr P says that both callers were professional, 
and that As website was very impressive and detailed. Mr P says that he checked A on 
Companies House and saw they were formed the year prior. 
Mr Ps first payment from his HSBC account was for £25,000 in April 2019. These funds 
were fully recovered so arent being considered as part of this complaint.
Mr P then made payments of £5,000 and £1,000 at the end of April/start of May 2019. These 
payments were made through his online banking. 
Mr P says he was provided with account numbers to make the investments and was told the 
funds had to go into an escrow account so A could complete anti-money laundering checks. 
Around a week after the payments Mr P received an email confirming that the checks had 
been completed and providing him with a link to login to an online account so he could see 
his investment and the interest it was earning.
Mr P says the representative at A contacted him and asked him if he wanted to invest 
further. On 7 May 2019 Mr P went into an HSBC branch to make a payment of £99,000.    
Mr P says he wasnt able to make the payment via his online banking as it exceeded a 
payment threshold. So, he attended the branch and he took the paperwork with him about 
the investment.
HSBC say they discussed the payment with Mr P. They say Mr P informed them that he was 
investing in a construction business that was owned by a long-term friend. HSBC say the 
payment was referred to a senior member of staff for consideration before processing. And, 
that they suggested Mr P take legal advice ahead of making the payment. But that Mr P 
assured them he had personal connections with the company and was dismissive when the 
staff tried to probe further. HSBC also added that the account Mr P was making the payment 
to was held with them, so they checked the name on the account against the payee details 
and they matched. They said they saw no reason not to process Mr Ps payment.
Mr P told us that he cant remember giving them the name of a construction company, but 
that he knew he was investing in a fund held by A. He says the staff member was making a 
bit of an issue about the payment and went away for 10 minutes. He says when she came 
back, she asked what the money was for, to which he answered property development and 
that was the end of the discussion and the payment was processed.
Three days later Mr P attended the branch again and made a further payment of £100,000 to 
the same bank details.
In June Mr P made three further payments of £10,000, £20,000 and £20,000. All of which 
were made over the space of five days and done via his online banking.
In August 2019, Mr P tried to access his online account with A but was unsuccessful. He 
also tried to call A, but the calls werent answered. Mr P went online and did some searches 
and found reports that A was a scam. A was in fact a clone of a genuine authorised 
investment firm. Having discovered this Mr P contacted HSBC.
HSBC investigated Mr Ps fraud claim. They contacted the receiving banks and were only 
able to recover his first payment of £25,000 (as mentioned above). They said for the 
payments made in June 2019, which are covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code), they shouldve done more and reimbursed Mr P 50% of those payments 
under the code. But for the payments made before June 2019, they declined to refund them 
saying theyd followed Mr Ps payment instructions.
Mr P wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it in part. They felt the first two 
payments werent particularly unusual or out of character, so thought HSBC acted fairly in 
processing them. However, they thought HSBC shouldve intervened when Mr P went into 
the branch to make the payments of £99,000 and £100,000. They said HSBC staff had 
concerns and didnt follow the banking protocol which suggests staff should call the police. 
The investigator thought a call to the genuine firm wouldve uncovered the scam and 
prevented Mr P from losing his money. As such they recommended that HSBC refund in full 
all of the payments Mr P made from 7 May 2019 onwards.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators opinion and wrote a lengthy response, in summary 
saying:
There were factual inaccuracies in the investigators opinion. In particular reference 
to the payment going to an overseas account and new payee. This was factored into 
the investigators reasoning and therefore they dont have confidence in the outcome 
they reached.
The investigator relied on uncorroborated testimony given by Mr P. And there isnt 
clarity about exactly what checks Mr P made before making the payment.
The branch staff verified that the sort code and account number was indeed held by 
the entity Mr P intended to pay.
The investigator didnt address Mr Ps approach and attitude to branch staff when he 
was questioned about the payment. Including the fact that he misled them regarding 
the nature of the payments  saying he was investing in a construction business. And 
that Mr P reassured them of his personal connection with the company he said he 
was investing in.
The investigator didnt separate out the payments in his assessment  as different 
regulatory standards applied for the last three payments than for the prior payments.
They asked Mr P a number of probing questions and suggested Mr P take legal advice, but he wanted to proceed anyway. They referred the payment to a senior 
member of the branch for consideration and didnt have sufficient concerns to 
warrant refusing to process the payment or call the police. And they cant be 
expected to refuse to follow clients instructions every time a payment outside the 
everyday operation of the account is made.
They did not have reasonable grounds to believe Mr P was the victim of a scam at 
the time he made the payments. 
The questions that the investigator felt they shouldve or ought to have asked werent 
realistic. Also, the investigator didnt take into account the first-hand interaction they 
had with Mr P which wouldve influenced their subjective consideration of the 
situation.
Mr P failed to take reasonable steps to protect himself from fraud and therefore 
should share some responsibility on the basis of contributory negligence.
As HSBC disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive separated the transactions out into two time periods, as different rules and industry 
standards applied at the time.
The payments made before 28 May 2019  not covered by the CRM code
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, to have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol where 
appropriate.
So, Ive taken all of that into consideration when looking through this complaint.
The first two payments that Mr P made were for £5,000 and a few days later £1,000. Having 
reviewed Mr Ps previous account use I can see that he regularly transferred money into the 
account before moving it out to investments. He had made bill payments of up to £25,000 on 
a regular basis. So, Im not persuaded these first two payments were particularly unusual or 
out of character whereby I think they shouldve flagged with HSBC as potentially suspicious. 
Therefore, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly in processing those payments with asking Mr P 
any questions first.
However, the third payment was for £99,000 and was done in branch. HSBC told us they 
asked Mr P questions about the payment and referred the payment to a senior member of staff, which suggests to me that there was enough about this payment that HSBC wanted to 
check that Mr P wasnt the victim of a scam and to satisfy themselves as to the purpose of 
the payment. Which is what I would have expected in these circumstances.
Ive very carefully considered everything that both Mr P and HSBC have told us. And its 
clear from what HSBC has told us that they had concerns about the payment Mr P was 
making. 
They checked the account name that Mr P was paying the funds into against the payee 
details on his payment instructions. They say they questioned Mr P including what the 
payment was for and did he know who he was sending it to. HSBC say Mr P told them he 
was buying into a construction firm, which differs to what the payment was actually for. Mr P 
was making a payment for investment with a cloned investment firm. Having asked Mr P 
about HSBCs notes, his recollection differs. However, all the paperwork that Mr P had was 
for investment in the cloned firm. And I cant see that Mr P was given a cover story to tell 
HSBC to hide the nature of his payment. While its unclear exactly what was said, HSBC had 
concerns about the payment and it was referred to a senior member of staff.  
While I appreciate that the investigator incorrectly referred to the payment going to an 
overseas account and a new payee  this doesnt affect whether or not the payment 
shouldve flagged  because the payment did flag with HSBC based on what theyve told us. 
HSBC provided a statement from the branch about the discussion held with Mr P. In it the 
staff member says we asked him to take time to think about it and get legal guidance. This 
suggests they were sufficiently worried that there was something about the payment that 
didnt feel right. Suggesting that Mr P get legal guidance or advice is quite a specific 
suggestion from HSBC, and I think the fact they did made it suggests they had quite serious 
concerns despite what Mr P had told them. On that basis Im satisfied that HSBC should 
have refused to process the payment.
HSBC say that they cant be expected to refuse to follow clients instructions every time a 
payment outside the everyday operation of the account is made, and that isnt what Im 
saying. But in the circumstances of this payment, I think they shouldve. The payment was 
significant being for £99,000 and their staff had clear concerns, to the degree they 
suggested Mr P get legal advice. Im not persuaded that HSBC protected Mr P as they 
shouldve in processing his payment request.
And Im aware that HSBC considers too high a standard has been applied to what is 
expected of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of 
financial harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am 
mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow legal duties considered in 
that and other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time) is an example of that.
Also, HSBC say they were given incorrect information by Mr P as to the purpose of the 
funds. Saying he told them he was investing in a construction business. However, Mr P had documentation regarding his investment, and I think if HSBC had asked 
to see the paperwork he had regarding the payment, the scam wouldve been uncovered. 
Cloned investment firm scams were well known to banks, whereas Mr P wasnt aware they 
existed. But his situation had several of the common indicators of a clone investment firm 
including: him being told the funds had to go to an escrow account; that the funds werent 
being paid to an account in the name of the investment firm; and the rate of return was too 
good to be true. All of which are common features of investment scams which I wouldve 
expected HSBC to have known and to have been on the lookout for. And given their 
concerns I think it wouldve been prudent for HSBC to have asked to see the paperwork     
Mr P had before proceeding with the payment. As I cant see that Mr P had a cover story, I 
think its mostly that he wouldve given the documents he had for the cloned investment firm.
One of the reasons HSBC say they proceeded with the payment was due to Mr Ps attitude 
to the staff when they questioned him about the payment. But even if Mr P had been 
confident, assertive and pushy about wanting the payment to be made  its incumbent on 
HSBC to protect customers where they think they might be at risk of fraud. The customers 
behaviour or attitude isnt a reason for them to ignore concerns they have, if they think the 
customer may be a victim of a scam. So, Im not persuaded this is a valid reason for them to 
have proceeded with the payment. 
I also think HSBC shouldnt have processed Mr Ps following payment of £100,000 which 
was made only three days later  in a branch. 
I think that if HSBC had intervened with Mr Ps prior payment of £99,000 that this second 
payment wouldnt have been made. Its also worth noting that this second payment is likely 
to have caused the same concerns as the previous payment, with the additional concern that 
this was his second payment in only a few days to the same payee and took the total Mr P 
was sending to nearly £200,000.
On that basis Im persuaded that HSBC should refund Mr P in full for both of the payments 
he made in branch for £99,000 and £100,000. HSBC have already refunded the fees of £34, 
which I wouldve awarded as well.
Could Mr P have done anything to mitigate his loss?
I have also considered whether Mr P should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. 
However, it is clear that Mr P wasnt aware of scams involving cloned investment firms, or 
the signs to look out for to protect himself. 
Mr P says their website was professional, as was his interaction with their staff. Ive seen the 
emails he had with A and they were professional and appeared to be from the genuine 
investment firm that had been cloned. And, the prospectus he was given was an amended 
copy of the genuine prospectus from the genuine firm. It was professional and was 
convincingly real. Having considered everything, I havent seen anything that I think 
shouldve concerned Mr P to the point that I wouldve expected him to do further checks. 
Therefore, Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, and that Mr P 
was just the victim of a clever scammer.The payments made after 28 May 2019  which are covered by the CRM code.
On 28 May 2019, the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) came into force, so 
Ive considered the later payments taking that into account.
The next three payments Mr P made after the CRM code came into effect were for £10,000, 
£20,000 and £20,000  and were made in June 2019. HSBC have already accepted they 
couldve done more to protect Mr P and therefore refunded him 50%. However, theyve 
withheld the other 50% saying that Mr P shouldve taken more responsibility and conducted 
more checks prior to making the payments.   
Under the CRM Code we would expect HSBC to refund Mr P in the case of a scam, unless 
one of the exceptions apply under the Code. The exception HSBC say applies in this case 
is:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
Having considered everything Im not satisfied that HSBC have shown that this exception 
applies to these three payments - and Ill explain why.
Around a week after making the initial payments, Mr P received an email containing a link to 
login to an online account so he could see his investment and the interest it was earning. I 
think this gave Mr P confidence that his funds were invested as he expected and meant that 
he had no reason to doubt his investment was genuine. Mr P continued to have access to 
this website and was able to check his investments up until August 2019 when the website 
disappeared.
The CRM code doesnt require Mr P to do checks, unless there are warning signs or 
anything that may indicate the transaction isnt legitimate. But from what Ive seen, there 
wasnt anything that shouldve suggested to Mr P that his investment wasnt legitimate. I 
think based on his ability to see and track what he thought was his investment  Mr P did 
have a reasonable basis for belief in making these three payments under the CRM code. 
Having considered everything, Im not satisfied that HSBC have shown an exception under 
the code applies to the three payments Mr P made in June 2019. Therefore, HSBC should 
refund Mr P the remaining 50% of those payments.
  
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Decision and award:
I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation is for HSBC to refund Mr P for both of 
the payments he made in branch in May 2019  which total £199,000. Also, they should refund him the remaining 50% on the payments made in June 2019  
which total £25,000. My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr P £160,000 being 
our limit. 
Recommendation: 
I think fair compensation is more than our £160,000 limit, so I recommend that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc pays Mr P the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. So, Mr P may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman