DRN-1968089
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss J took out the PPI at the same time as arranging her mortgage during a branch meeting 
in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss J disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Miss Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss J says it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional. She says that the meeting 
involved discussion about the mortgage options and that a number of additional 
requirements were highlighted such as buildings and contents insurance and PPI. Miss J 
says the adviser informed her that the PPI would cover her mortgage repayments if she was 
unable to work due to illness or if made redundant and that she was strongly advised to take 
it out.
Looking at the mortgage application, there is a separate section for insurance. The PPI 
policy was branded as Paymentcare and the wording in that section states: We strongly 
recommend that you protect yourself if the worst should happen and youre unable to pay 
your mortgage. There is then a brief description of the benefits provided by the policy, 
followed by a Yes and a No box to either request or decline the PPI. The Yes box has 
been ticked on Miss Js form. It is a computer generated tick, but this is typical of mortgage 
interviews, where there is a discussion between the adviser and the applicant, with the form 
being printed out afterwards to reflect what was discussed.
I have no doubt that Miss J has provided her genuine recollection of events, but the sale was 
a long time ago and so it is possible that Miss Js memory has faded somewhat. Miss J has 
reiterated a number of times that she was strongly advised to take out the PPI. From what 
Miss J has said, and based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that means that 
she was pressured into having it, without really being given a choice. Being strongly advised 
sounds like the adviser was telling Miss J that she should take it out, rather than having to 
take it out. On balance, I think she probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Its clear that Santander advised Miss J to buy the PPI. So the staff member was saying that 
the advice was that Miss J should take out PPI in her circumstances. Therefore, in 
recommending it to her, it needed to ensure that it met her needs. Miss J says she cant 
remember any discussion about her situation at the time. However, looking at what Miss Js 
circumstances were in 1996, I consider that the PPI was suitable for her.
At the time that Miss J took out the policy, her employer would have given her sick pay of 
four months full pay, followed by four months half pay. However, the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Miss J would have received full 
pay for. Miss J says she had some savings, but having the policy would have meant that she 
could retain her savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time. Miss J has also said that her parents could have helped in the short term. But 
other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change and presumably 
asking your parents to pay your mortgage for you would be a last resort. Miss J has said that 
she could access temporary work if she lost her permanent job, but the policy provided cover 
for sickness as well as unemployment. Miss J has provided evidence that she had an 
alternative insurance policy. But that was a life and critical illness policy, so it was covering a 
different set of risks than the PPI policy. As such, the PPI policy wasnt duplicating Miss Js 
existing cover. Overall, I consider that Miss J had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time, so it wasnt wrong of Santander to 
recommend that she should buy it.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss J wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J. But 
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because: 
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss J about 
that. Because Santander didnt tell Miss , that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss J.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman