DRN-2137762
The complaint
Mr S and Miss F are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for 
damage to external brick steps.
What happened
Mr S and Miss F had buildings insurance with UKI. It was a joint policy but because Mr S 
dealt with the complaint, and for ease, I will refer only to him throughout my decision.
Mr S made a claim under his buildings insurance after the brick steps leading from his patio 
to the river at the end of his garden collapsed into the water during a storm. He reported that 
unusually heavy rainfall had caused the steps to collapse.
UKI declined his claim because it didnt think thered been a storm and because Mr S said, 
when he made his claim, that the steps were old.
Mr S got an expert opinion and sent the repair quote to UKI. UKI still declined the claim so 
he asked for it to survey the damage. UKIs surveyor reported that the damage was due to 
years of exposure gradually wearing the steps down and due to poor workmanship in a more 
recent rebuild.
Ms S complained to UKI. He said that the steps hadnt been rebuilt and his surveyor said 
there was no evidence of erosion. UKI upheld his complaint about the report inaccuracies 
but maintained its position that the main cause was wear and tear.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He thought that Mr S had adequately 
demonstrated that there had been significant rainfall when the damage happened. He also 
thought that, as Mr Ss steps had remained intact for over 30 years, it was unlikely that the 
damage was the result of poor workmanship. Our investigator didnt think that UKI had 
adequately shown that a policy exclusion applied, so he proposed that UKI should settle the 
claim and pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
UKI disagreed. After contact from our investigator, UKI considered the claim under flood 
damage. But it still thought that gradual damage and poor workmanship were the main 
causes. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Mr S thought that UKI declined his claim too quickly, before surveying the damage, and then 
said the damage was due to poor workmanship or mainly due to wear and tear/gradually 
occurring. So he doesnt think it has properly considered his claim. UKI relied on the expert 
report provided by its surveyor to support its decision to decline the claim under the policy 
exclusions.
Mr S is covered for storm and flood damage under his policy, but it specifically excludes 
damage caused by poor workmanship, or damage which happens gradually.
UKI first considered the claim as storm damage and then as flood damage. While it originally 
said there hadnt been storm conditions, it seems that this factor is now accepted. For 
completeness, Ill address this point first.
Ive looked at weather and news reports for the day in question. Mr S also provided similar 
information to support his claim. Its clear that there was extremely heavy rainfall causing 
localised flooding and structural damage in the area where Mr S lives on the day his steps 
collapsed. Therefore, Im satisfied that there were wet storm conditions.
The next points Ive considered are whether the damage is consistent with that caused by 
storm or flood conditions and, if so, whether those conditions were likely to be the main 
cause of the damage. Ive also relied on the expert reports here.
UKIs expert report states:
Following our inspection we can confirm that this is not the result of a one fortuitous event 
but the combination of factors.
 
We could find no evidence of lateral support between the back wall and the steel pilings. The 
side of the stairs do not appear to have been tied into the main retaining wall when they 
were rebuilt. We believe that over a significant period time water has built up between the 
stairs and the main retaining wall until it has caused the ultimate failure of the pilings and 
concrete jetty. We would have to consider this to be poor workmanship when the steps were 
renewed ten years ago.
Mr S engaged the services of a Marine Construction Specialist, whose expert report states:
The river wall consists of an interlocking steel sheet piling revetment. These are driven into 
the river bed and an RSAis bolted to the top of the piles for extra strength. I would 
estimate the existing steel piling is around 30 years old. There is no sign of any structural 
corrosion. Theriver frontage has collapsed into the river...This was most likely caused by 
the exceptionally heavy rainThe heavy rain could not escape from behind the sheet piling 
quickly enough and forced the sheet piling forward. As it collapsedit has compromised 
therun of river wall.
Initially, UKI declined Mr Ss claim because the damage was more likely due to poor 
workmanship. However, it based that decision on its surveyors report which said the steps 
had been rebuilt ten years before. UKI then apologised to Mr S for the incorrect information 
reported by its surveyor, because the steps had not been rebuilt. Mr Ss surveyor confirmed 
that the construction was around 30 years old, which is in line with Mr Ss comment that the 
steps were there when he moved in, more than 30 years before.
So, given that Mr Ss surveyor provided an accurate report, and specialises in marine 
construction, Im inclined to place more weight on the content of his report.Moving on to UKIs view that the damage happened gradually, again I think Mr Ss report 
carries more weight. The surveyor stated that the damage was likely caused by the 
exceptionally heavy rain which couldnt escape fast enough. UKIs surveyor reported that 
the damage was not due to one event but a combination of factors. However, the 
combination of factors stated include the poor workmanship when rebuilding the steps, 
which it now accepts is incorrect. Another factor is that the steps werent tied into the 
retaining wall. But, Mr Ss surveyor reported that the steps were constructed in a manner 
that gave extra strength. I appreciate that isnt stating conclusively that the steps were 
strong but given that the steps had been there for more than 30 years, and Mr Ss surveyor 
reported that there was no evidence of any structural erosion, again Im inclined to place 
more weight on that report. Im satisfied its more likely than not that the steps collapsed due 
to the heavy rainfall.
I can see that UKIs surveyor reported that the water had built up between the stairs and the 
wall over time, causing it to collapse. But Mr Ss surveyor reported that it collapsed because 
the heavy rain couldnt escape quickly enough on that day. I think its possible that there 
could be an element of both, but, overall, Im satisfied that the scenario presented in Mr Ss 
marine construction specialists report provides a more thorough and convincing evaluation. 
Therefore, Im persuaded that the storm and flood conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. For that reason, I think UKI should settle the claim in full under the remaining terms 
of the policy.
Our investigator proposed that UKI pays Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I think thats fair taking into consideration UKIs premature decision to decline his 
claim and for the inaccurate report on which it based its subsequent decisions to decline.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and U K 
Insurance Limited must:
settle Mr Ss claim in full under the remaining terms of the policy, and
pay Mr S £100 for the service shortfalls of declining his claim prematurely and for 
basing its decisions on an inaccurate surveyor report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman