DRN-3387784
The complaint
Mr G complains about Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (and trading as Carey 
Pensions UK LLP [Carey] at the time of the relevant events) accepting an application for a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and an investment in Store First and Gas 
Verdant, from an unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers 
(CL&P). For simplicity, I have referred to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP as Carey 
throughout this decision.
Mr Gs representative says that Carey failed to undertake adequate due diligence on the 
Gas Verdant and Store First investments and failed to make Mr G aware of the nature of 
the investments. It says that the investments were high risk, unregulated and speculative. 
It also says that Carey failed to undertake adequate due diligence on CL&P  an 
unregulated introducer. It says if it had undertaken due diligence it would have discovered 
that the Financial Conduct Authority had issued a warning about one of its Directors.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 16 February 2022. In that decision I set out why I believed 
the complaint should be upheld. I have included the content of the provisional decision in 
italics below and the provisional decision should be read in conjunction with, and forms part 
of, this final decision. Although Carey is now Options, I will refer to Carey throughout. 
Provisional decision of 16 February 2022:
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Careys acceptance of a SIPP application 
and Store First investment application from CL&P in February 2021. That final decision has been 
published on our website under DRN5472159. I have reached my decision in this case 
independently. The published decision however sets out the general detail of Careys relationship 
with, and due diligence on, CL&P and the general detail of Store First and Careys due diligence on 
that investment, across pages 2 to 11 (up to Mr Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey). So I will rely 
on that detail set out in the published decision here, rather than repeat it  I will only include the key 
factual background of this particular complaint here.
Mr Gs dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mr Gs representative says Mr G was advised by CL&P to transfer his pension arrangements to 
a SIPP with Carey and invest in unregulated investments following the transfer. It is submitted 
that Mr G thought that CL&P were his financial advisers. It says CL&P provided the relevant 
documentation for Mr G to complete so that the transfer could go ahead and investment made.
Before being contacted by CL&P Mr G had two occupational defined benefit pensions and a money 
purchase personal pension. Following the contact by CL&P the cash value of these pensions was 
switched into a SIPP with Carey, and a significant amount of that cash was then invested in Store 
First and Gas Verdant. The key events which took place during Mr Gs dealings with Carey were as 
follows:
Mr G signs a Carey SIPP application form  28 February 2012.
Carey sends its welcome letter, confirming the establishment date of the SIPP  6 
March 2012.
Carey confirms a transfer amount has been received from Scottish Life - 11 June 
2012. Mr Gs two defined benefit occupational schemes also confirmed transfers to 
Carey: £42,000 on 17 September 2012 and £205,000 on 1 June 2012.
Mr G signs Careys member declaration and indemnity in respect of Storefirst 
(referred to as the indemnity in the published decision, using the wording quoted in 
full there)  14 August 2012. He also signed a Carey indemnity for Gas Verdant on 
12 October 2012.
Carey confirms it has sent cash from Mr Gs SIPP to Store First (£69,000) on 26 
September 2012 and Gas Verdant (£95,000) on 23 October 2012.
There is also a copy of an undated letter of authority signed by Mr G, authorising Carey to deal with 
CL&P.
CL&P and Carey
The below is a chronological summary (set out in greater detail in the published decision) of the key 
events during the relationship between CL&P and Carey.
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows 
subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe Adams and a 
Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P Carey initially had contact 
with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright.
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that call the 
issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or switch to a 
SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following:
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when they would 
receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] confirmed that no 
clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of inducement for either establishing 
the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that CL&P policy does not include offering 
inducements. [Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P:
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I attach 
the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 which is the date 
of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and complete the terms and 
return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams. 23 
March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the following 
information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys Chief Executive, with 
the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back [reference removed]. That 
email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said this is the second member this week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email:
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report highlighted that he 
appeared on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals.
25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P. Careys Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements (monetary or 
otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have received enquiries as to 
when client can expect to receive their money and have today been informed by a new client that 
they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst investment purchase, which they 
confirmed was offered by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked, Regarding business which you have already accepted from us, 
will you still be processing this as the client's SIPPs have already been established?
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will be writing to all 
clients informing them if they have received any monies then they must declare this to HMRC and 
their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge as well.
HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who are investing in 
alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random checks and will charge people for 
unauthorised transactions if they have received cash sums for transferring their pension and 
making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing this as part of your 
sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the business, it is not allowable as we 
have explained to you previously.
Submissions made by Mr G
We asked Mr G for some further detail of his recollections. We asked the following questions, and 
received the replies quoted in italics:
Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being contacted by CL&P? Why? 
What attracted you to CL&P? What attracted you to the Store First and GAS Verdant 
investments?
I had started getting a lot of cold calls leading up to my 55th birthday, none particularly interested 
me, CL&P strongly convinced me that GAS Verdant and Store First were the perfect investment for 
a man in my position with the amount of funds i had available to me with the pensions I held. I had 
no idea whatsoever about investments and was happy to just leave my pensions as having been a 
single parent for the years leading up to my 55th birthday I had just started to work full time. They 
convinced me Id be a fool not to invest.
What role did you think CL&P had in this transaction?
CL&P took the lead in the whole transaction, as I stated before I had no idea about pensions or 
investments.
Did CL&P recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you?GAS Verdant and Store First were the only options ever offered to me.
If Carey/Options had told you that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the subject of an FSA 
alert, what would you have done?
If CL&P had ever mentioned anyone or anything was subject to any investigation. Everything was 
portrayed as a win win situation. The amount of money involved any hint of any investigation Id 
have never dreamt of risking my money.
Carey ended its relationship with CL&P in May 2012. If you had been made aware of this 
what would you have done?
There was never any mention of Carey ending any relationship with CL&P at any point? Again with 
the amount of money involved Id have certainly asked questions? I never had that opportunity.
What is your understanding of how the investments work? Did you understand the risks 
associated with a high risk, speculative investment? What are they in your own words?
Even with my limited knowledge of investments I understood that it was certainly a risk but the 
information I was given that even in the worst scenario the bulk of my money would be safe.
They even hinted that even if one investment was risky the chance of both being at risk was 
more or less impossible. Thats why I was advised to go with two separate investments.
What was your understanding of the risks associated with these investments? Please 
explain your answer fully.
My understanding was that no matter what happened the farm land and the storage pods were 
always going to be there so in the worst situation Id still own both of my investments.
What did you think Careys role was at the time?
My understanding was that Carey were looking after my interests. Not at one point did Carey 
mention any hint of any risk or problem until they just stopped paying me my monthly interest on my 
investments. When I rang to ask where my monthly payment was the only response I got was there 
is no money left? The first year they sent a folder with my predictions for the investments and even 
the worst scenario looked good to me? They sent similar predictions in the second year? Not at one 
point did I even think there was any foreseeable problem.
Your SIPP was set up in March 2012 and your investments in Store First and GAS Verdant were 
made in September and October 2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose whether 
or not to make those specific investments after the SIPP had been set up?
As far as I was aware from the information given to me by Carey the investments were up and 
running on my 55th birthday.
On 12 October 2012, you signed a Members Declaration & Indemnity (the indemnity) which 
included the following statement I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment 
and as such is High Risk and / or Speculative. Did you read the indemnity before signing it? What 
does this indemnity mean to you in your own words?
I was told that signing was just my acknowledgment that any investment was a risk which I 
understood to be as stated before that the land and pods would always be there but just not as 
valuable as the higher predictions. Indemnity to me meant that Carey would be liable to any false or 
misleading information?
Submissions made by Carey
The submissions made by Carey in this complaint are essentially the same as those summarised in 
the published decision. That is with the further submission in Mr Gs case that there was no reason 
for Carey not to accept the investment in GAS Verdant  and it undertook due diligence on that investment.
The summary in the published decision also includes general submissions about Careys 
relationship with CL&P. So I will rely here on the summary given in the published decision 
under Careys submissions rather than repeat the detail.
The investigators view
The FCAs Principles for Businesses and the regulatory publications which remind SIPP 
operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles were relevant considerations here.
Carey carried out significant due diligence, but it took a piecemeal approach, and in the 
meantime accepted business from CL&P. Had it carried out all its due diligence at the outset, it 
ought to have concluded it should not accept business from CL&P at all.
Carey should have conducted background checks on the directors of CL&P at the outset, 
rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey checked the directors at the outset it 
would have discovered that Terence Wright was subject to a warning on the FSAs website.
Careys concerns were such that it actually stopped doing business with CL&P once it became 
aware of the warnings and incentives issue. But it did not advise Mr G of this.
It is not clear why Carey did not ask for accounts and identification documents at the outset, but 
only did this after the relationship had been ongoing for a number of months. The fact that 
CL&P failed to provide this information, despite reminders, was cause for concern. Had Carey 
asked at the outset and CL&P had failed to provide them, it should not have entered into a 
relationship with CL&P.
Once Careys non-regulator introducer agreement was signed, it was not signed by the 
Directors of CL&P but by members of staff. If Carey had questioned why the Directors had not 
signed it might have led Carey to conclude that it shouldnt do business with CL&P.
Carey was concerned CL&P was offering cash back incentives to consumers in December 
2011. Careys concerns were such that by May 2012 in stopped doing business with CL&P.
Carey put some reliance on the indemnity signed by Mr G. But it should not have accepted his 
application at all, so should not have required him to sign any documents. And asking Mr G to 
sign the indemnity did not mean it was fair and reasonable to proceed with Mr Gs investment 
instructions.
Careys response to the investigators view
In assessing the complaint, we must take into account the overarching context of the 
relationship that Carey has with its customers, including Mr G, being one of a self- invested 
personal pension scheme in which Carey acts on a strictly execution only/non- advised basis 
and is member-directed throughout. Carey is not permitted to, and does not, provide advice or 
otherwise comment on the suitability of investments or any other aspect of a customers SIPP. 
Carey expressly states that all customers should seek independent financial advice from an 
adviser who is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The fundamental consideration that underpins the view is the contention that had Carey 
identified that Mr Terence Wright was on the FSAs warning list and informed Mr G of this, then 
it should not have accepted business from CL&P, or Mr G would not have proceeded with the 
investment.
There is a material difference between a warning detailing that you should not deal with a 
particular individual and a notice informing you that an individual is not a regulated individual and that the ombudsman service and FSCS would not be available to you if you chose to deal 
with such individual. The wording in the FCAs notice published on 15 October 2010, which was 
available to Carey at the time it undertook its due diligence on CL&P, does not include any 
such warning stating that Terence (Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid or be wary of; the 
Notice amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated 
activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis it accepted referrals from 
CL&P. Carey reasonably considered at all times that CL&P was an unregulated introducer 
which was not providing advice.
There is nothing in the notice published on 15 October 2010 to indicate that Terence (Terry) 
Wright is an individual to avoid as such, it is not fair or reasonable to state that on the basis of a 
notice that simply informs that Terence (Terry) Wright is not regulated by the FCA, that Carey 
should not have accepted this business.
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including an express 
comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would have put Carey on 
notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright, is irrelevant in this case because Carey had 
already severed its Terms of Business some 18 months before the warning in 2013 regarding 
Mr Wright was published.
The fact that the FSA later made express comment as to Mr Wright's conduct, but did not make 
any comment of a similar nature in the earlier wording plainly indicates that at the time that 
Carey accepted business from CL&P, the FSA did not believe Mr Wright to have been providing 
financial services or products without authorisation at that time, nor consider it necessary to 
express any concerns in this regard.
If the FSA did not consider there to be any cause for concern at the relevant time and there 
was no way through reasonable due diligence checks for Carey to establish any cause for 
concern, then plainly it is not fair or reasonable to have expected Carey to have rejected 
business from CL&P on this basis.
COBS 11.2.19R, which deals with execution only business and was in force at the relevant 
time, stated as follows:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute the order 
following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to obtain the best 
possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a specific aspect of an 
order, following specific instructions from the client relating to the order or the specific aspect of 
the order."
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such as Carey, cannot be 
overstated. Carey would have been in breach of COBS if it had not executed Mr G's specific 
instructions to make the investment.
Carey did undertake a reasonable level of due diligence, both on CL&P and the investments. 
There was nothing of concern at the time. Carey did conduct its affairs with the FCAs 
Principles in mind. Carey determined that Mr G had not appointed a financial adviser and Mr G 
understood that he had not been advised on the suitability of the transaction at the time. Carey 
provided Mr G with Member Declarations which reaffirmed his investment instructions and 
provided him with risk warnings about his chosen investment to enable him to make an 
informed decision on whether to proceed. It was Mr Gs decision to proceed on an execution 
only basis and it made this clear to him. Mr G confirmed that he had read and understood all 
the documentation he had been given and this should be taken into account.
There was no reason for Carey to have refused to accept business from CL&P.
After Carey rejected the investigators view, it was advised that the complaint would now be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Carey then provided a further submission. It said it couldnt provide a full response because in its view the investigator had not addressed its points adequately. This 
was particularly in respect of COBS 11.2.19, the FCAs Notice on Terence Wright, FSA guidance 
on the duties of SIPP operators and that Mr G was not being held responsible for any of the loss 
he had suffered.
After the published decision was issued, Carey was asked to take it into consideration, as an 
important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken 
into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Carey was asked to review outstanding complaints involving CL&P and Store First  
including Mr Gs - and if it was not prepared to make a settlement offer taking account of the 
detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why it was distinguishing it from the 
published decision. Carey declined to carry out this review at this time. Mr Gs complaint has 
therefore been passed to me for review and Im satisfied that there is no need to wait any further 
before progressing this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken 
into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. Having done so, I have reached the same view in this complaint as that set out in 
the published decision.
In short, although there are some factual differences between this complaint and the one which 
was subject to the published decision, I am satisfied the outcome detailed in the published 
decision is the fair and reasonable one to reach in this case, for the reasons set out in the 
published decision.
In my view the relevant considerations in this complaint set out in the published decision apply 
here  so I will refer to the published decision rather than repeat those considerations here.
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options 
UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to an 
ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this means Adams is not 
a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both judgments when 
making this decision on Mr Gs case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams 
pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he 
argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the 
facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim 
on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that 
found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but 
rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr 
Adams and the issues in Mr Gs complaint.  The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of 
the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its 
SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am 
required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference 
between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which 
was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not able  to give 
advice to Mr G on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First and GAS Verdant investments for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept particular 
investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from particular 
businesses. As the published decision sets out, this is consistent with Careys own understanding 
of its obligations at the relevant time.
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court of Appeal 
judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the grounds of appeal are in 
respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case and therefore it is 
unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, if permission is granted, the 
Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to determine this complaint now.
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations I am satisfied that, in order to meet the 
appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and 
regulations, Carey should have carried out due diligence on CL&P to the sort of standard which 
was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time and carried out 
due diligence on the Store First and Gas Verdant investments which was consistent with good 
industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And Carey should have used the 
knowledge it gained from that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or a particular investment.
I am also satisfied that, as in the complaint subject to the published decision, the contract between 
Carey and Mr G does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for failing to comply 
with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P and the Store First and 
Gas Verdant investments which ultimately led to Mr G losing a significant part of his pension.
In this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published decision, Carey had obtained 
information many months before it facilitated Mr Gs investment which led it to reject any further 
referrals from CL&P and had concerns at least about the Store First investment (if not the GAS 
Verdant investment) before it facilitated Mr Gs investment. So in this complaint, like the complaint 
subject to the published decision, it would not be fair and reasonable to say the contract meant 
Carey could ignore all red flags and proceed with Mr Gs business regardless.
In my view, like the complaint subject to the published decision, had Carey done what it ought to 
have done here, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it knew or ought to have known, it 
should not have accepted either the application for Mr Gs SIPP from CL&P or the Store First 
and Gas Verdant investments.
Due diligence on CL&P
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been privy 
to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P.
Mr Gs application was accepted on 6 March 2012. As the published decision sets out, it is fair and 
reasonable to say by that time Carey ought to have known that CL&Ps director was Mr Terence 
Wright, and that he was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, which was described on 
the website as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you 
should not deal with.Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the Adams v Carey
hearing (at Paragraph 60) which HHJ Dight summarised as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings about 
dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under FSMA to carry out 
regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check was made to see 
whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs website until May 2012. 
The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that 
had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
The money was sent to Store First in September 2012 and GAS Verdant in October 2012. As the 
published decision sets out it is fair and reasonable to say by that time Carey knew, or ought to 
have known:
That what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives not being offered 
was not correct. So CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words, 
completely against all rules. And CL&P was acting without integrity as it had not told 
it the truth when asked about cash incentives.
Multiple requests had been made for copies of CL&Ps accounts, but CL&P was 
unwilling to provide this information.
So for the same reasons set out in the published decision, it is my finding that if Carey had carried 
out sufficient due diligence on CL&P or acted on the information it subsequently received in a 
timely manner, it should not have accepted Mr Gs application from CL&P  or, at the very least, 
not continued to process it.
Investment due diligence
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been privy 
to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on Store First.
As the published decision sets out, at the time Mr Gs application was accepted Carey knew or 
ought to have known:
There were factors in the report Carey obtained on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd (the 
promoter of Store First) which ought to have been of concern  namely the adverse 
comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the business had 
recently changed its name.
Dylan Harvey (one of three previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, which at 
the time had the web address dylanharvey.com) and one of its directors, Toby 
Whittaker, were the subject of a number of national press reports, online petitions 
and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property investment.
Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had recently been involved in a property investment 
scheme which had failed. It had also recently changed its name, and had been 
subject to a number of adverse comments in succession, following audit.
Store Firsts marketing material set out high fixed returns, and said these were 
guaranteed. The material did not contain any type of risk warning, or illustrations of 
any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was offered, or the basis of the 
projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in its business model and 
the self-storage marketplace.
The conclusion of the Enhanced Support Solutions report Carey had obtained was 
inconsistent with the result of Careys own company searches. The report also 
makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material.The marketing material showed there was a significant risk that potential investors 
were being misled.
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to 
provide high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high 
level of liquidity together with a strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact 
that there was no investor protection associated with the investment and that, in 
Careys own words, there is no apparent established market for the investment and 
the investment is potentially illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain 
that the investment operated as claimed.
Consumers may have been misled or did not properly understand the investment 
they intended to make.
And, by the time the money was sent to Store First, as the published decision sets out, 
Carey knew, or ought to have known:
Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Payment of such a high level of 
commission to an unregulated business was very serious cause for concern, given 
how the investment was being marketed. How Store First was funding such levels of 
commission alongside guaranteed income payments and guaranteed buy backs 
called the nature of the Store First investment into serious question.
There were issues with Store First which were of sufficient concern for it to suspend 
acceptance of the investment.
On the latter point, Carey suspended acceptance of new investments in Store First in August 
2012. It has not confirmed the date at which this suspension was placed. But it has provided 
details of an internal meeting, which took place on 15 August 2012, at which concerns about 
Store First were discussed. And it has provided a copy of an internal email dated 17 August 
2012 which says new investments in Store First had been suspended. So it seems likely the 
decision to suspend new investments in Store First was taken during or shortly after the 15 
August 2012 meeting. Mr Gs investment therefore appears to post-date that decision.
It therefore seems clear from the available evidence that by the date on which Carey sent 
cash from Mr Gs SIPP to Store First and Gas Verdant, Carey had the concerns that led to 
the suspension of the acceptance of new investments in Store First and had taken the step 
of suspending such investments. Carey has not said why it allowed Mr Gs investment to 
proceed. Even ignoring that, as set out in the published decision Carey had concerns that 
related to, Rental Income Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays, a tax investigation and 
that the marketing material provided for . a guaranteed rental income but only a small 
proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income as expected.
As in the complaint subject to the published decision, I think all of the points listed above 
should have been considered alongside the fact the investments were being sold by an 
unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. I think it is fair and 
reasonable to find that Carey ought to have concluded there was an obvious risk of 
consumer detriment here.
So, given the circumstances at the time of Mr Gs application, I think the fair and reasonable 
conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, is that Carey 
should not have accepted Mr Gs application to invest in Store First and Gas Verdant. In my 
opinion, it ought to have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory 
obligations, or best practice, to do so.
As to Gas Verdant, this was also an unregulated, esoteric, high risk investment. The Verdant 
Australian Farmland investment took the form of a land purchase contract which involved a 
company based in Cyprus (GAS Global Agricultural Services Ltd) leasing plots of agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were to be planted on the plots, and the objective was to 
provide an income to investors through the sale of those crops and capital growth through the 
sale of the plot of land after an eight year period. This investment would now appear to have 
failed, with Mr Gs investment being valued at zero.
Carey has not said what due diligence it carried on Gas Verdant. Be that as it may, by the time 
of that investment Carey should have been aware, as discussed, that it should not have 
accepted the application from Mr G and so the Gas Verdant investment should never have 
taken place. As well as that, and the fact that the Store First investment was suspect, it should 
have given Carey additional cause for concerns that a large proportion of Mr Gs pension 
funds were being invested in another unregulated investment where total loss was possible.
The involvement of TPS
TPS was a trading name of Douglas Baillie Ltd. At the time of TPSs involvement Douglas 
Baillie Ltd was an FCA regulated financial adviser. TPS was appointed by Mr G on 12 March 
2012, after he had made his SIPP application and that application had been accepted by 
Carey. Carey has said that TPS was appointed after Carey had told Mr G that it required him 
to seek advice about his intention to transfer his occupational (defined benefit) pensions to the 
SIPP. Carey has said that it received confirmation in 2012 that Mr G had received advice from 
TPS as to the intended transfers and copies of the Transfer Value Analysis Summarys (TVAS) 
that TPS completed for Mr G.
I have noted that Douglas Baillie Ltd was noted as Mr Gs financial adviser on a Carey 
Financial Adviser Details form  although this is dated 6 May 2012  several months after 
Carey had accepted the SIPP application.
TPS wrote to Mr G on 3 May 2012. It its letter is set out its advice as to the transfer of one of 
Mr Gs occupational schemes and his personal pension.
A similar letter was issued by TPS on 2 August 2012 with respect to Mr Gs remaining 
occupational pension scheme.
I dont believe that Carey should have taken any particular comfort from the involvement of 
TPS in these specific circumstances. As discussed, Carey had already accepted Mr Gs SIPP 
application and set up his SIPP by the time of TPSs involvement, something it should not 
have done given what it should have known about CL&P. Furthermore, Mr Gs SIPP 
application and request to transfer had been introduced by CL&P without any involvement of a 
regulated financial adviser. It was only at Careys request that a financial adviser was 
appointed. It was clear that CL&P was the material party that was inducing Mr G to transfer 
and then invest in unregulated investments. TPS was only appointed after the fact as a 
condition of Carey accepting the transfer of the occupational schemes. So the same concerns 
about CL&Ps involvement and likely consumer detriment should have remained and led 
Carey to decline the application.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr Gs 
instructions?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is largely the same as the view set out in 
the published decision. The key points here are:
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mr Gs application from 
CL&P in the first place. So, Mr Gs SIPP should not have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
should not have arisen at all, whether those investments were Store First or Gas 
Verdant.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I consider there 
is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates unfairness 
in the circumstances of this case. At the time of receiving Mr Gs application and executing his investment instructions, Carey knew things that Mr G did not.
Carey was required by its regulatory obligations to ensure that it treated its customers 
fairly. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have required Carey to either 
have stopped Mr G from proceeding any further with the Store First and Gas Verdant 
investments, or as a minimum, to have explained the situation to Mr G as soon as 
possible and let him have the opportunity of making an informed decision whether or 
not to proceed.
If it had done the latter, I am satisfied that Mr G would not have proceeded with the investment in 
Store First and Gas Verdant. And he would therefore not have lost his entire pension fund.
Mr G has told us that had he been made aware that Carey had ended its relationship 
with CL&P, he would have asked why. In my view, it is unlikely this would have led to 
Mr G having confidence to continue dealing with CL&P.
Mr G has told us he was told by CL&P that the bulk of his money was safe. So, when 
he signed the indemnity, I am not persuaded that he did so with a full understanding 
of what high risk meant. Instead he was reassured by what he had been told by 
CL&P.
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr G?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is also largely the same as the view set out in 
the published decision. The key points here are:
I do not consider the fact that Mr G signed the indemnity means that he shouldnt be 
compensated if it is fair to do so.
Had Carey acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it 
should not have accepted Mr Gs application to open a SIPP introduced from CL&P. 
That should have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mr G that it could 
not accept the business. So if that had happened, the arrangement for Mr G would 
not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been 
avoided.
Had Carey explained to Mr G why it would not accept the application from CL&P or 
was terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that Mr G would have tried to 
find another SIPP operator to accept the business.
In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
compensate Mr G for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to 
assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application from CL&P, or would have terminated the transaction before completion.
Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Gs actions mean he should bear the 
loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I acknowledge Mr G was warned of the 
high-risk nature of Store First and Gas Verdant and declared he understood that 
warning. But Carey failed to act on, nor did it share, significant warning signs with Mr 
G so that he could make an informed decision about whether to proceed with the 
investment. And, in these circumstances, I am satisfied that Carey should not have 
asked him to sign the indemnity at all.
With all this in mind, Im of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mr G signed in order to avoid 
liability for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. So I am satisfied that it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr G for the loss he has suffered to his 
pension.
Putting things rightI am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time has led to Mr G suffering a significant loss to his pension. And my 
aim is therefore to return Mr G to the pension position he would now be in but for Careys 
failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary 
judgement ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgement deals with 
restitution/compensation.
In light of my above findings, in my view Carey should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr G would be in if he had not transferred from 
his existing pensions.
As discussed, Mr G transferred two defined benefit pensions and switched one money 
purchase pension. Therefore different redress calculations will be required for each type of 
pension.
In summary, Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr G has suffered as a result of making the transfers and switch.
2.Take ownership of the Store First and GAS Verdant investments if possible.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Gs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr G direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr G has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, with respect to the money purchase pension, Carey should work out the likely 
value of Mr Gs pension as at the date of this decision, had he left it where it was instead of 
switching to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mr G's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
With respect to the defined benefit transfers Carey should calculate redress in 
line with The FCAs pension review guidance in October 2017 
(https: //www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised- guidance/fg17-9.pdf) using the 
most recent financial assumptions published.
The notional transfer value of the money purchase pension should be 
compared to that proportion of the transfer value of the SIPP that is 
represented by that switch. This will show the loss Mr G has suffered as to the 
money purchase pension.
The Store First and GAS Verdant investments should be assumed to have no 
value.
2. Take ownership of the Store First and Gas Verdant investments
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, here, I am able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand Carey 
has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil consideration, in 
other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair approach in the 
circumstances of this case, as it may allow the SIPP to close (subject to the position with 
the Gas Verdant investment) and gives Carey the option of retaining the investment or 
realising its current market value. If the Gas Verdant investment still exists then Carey 
should also take ownership of it.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First and Gas Verdant investments 
they should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely they will 
have any significant realisable value in the future. I understand Mr G has the option of 
returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for nil consideration. That may 
enable him (subject to the position with the Gas Verdant investment) to close his SIPP, if 
Carey does not take ownership of the Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr G decides not to 
transfer it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs 
associated with that investment such as business rates, ground rent and any other 
charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further complaint 
about these costs.
He would only be liable for any SIPP fees if the Gas Verdant can be sold or no longer 
exists. If Carey does not take ownership of the Gas Verdant investment and it still exists 
and cannot be sold, then Carey should waive any SIPP fees until it can be sold or ceases 
to exist.
3. Pay compensation to Mr G for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr G has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mr G could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mr Gs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr G may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr G direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr G should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Gs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr G is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr G has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. This 
is money Mr G cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused him upset. I note the 
Court of Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non financial loss. But my role here is 
to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in the particular circumstances of this case. 
And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for the upset Mr G has suffered.
determination and money award: my provisional decision is that Carey pay Mr G 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date Carey receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Carey to pay Mr G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time 
where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be 
added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend that Carey pays Mr G the balance. I further recommend interest to be 
added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it 
takes Carey to pay Mr G from the date it receives notification of his acceptance of the decision, as 
set out above.
If Mr G accepts my determination, the money award is binding on Options SIPP UK LLP. My 
recommendation is not binding on Options SIPP UK LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance 
of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr G may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Options SIPP UK LLP should calculate and pay compensation as set out above.
I have not received any further submissions from Carey in response to the provisional 
decision. 
Mr Gs representative confirmed that Mr G accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not received any further submissions in response to my provisional decision. My 
decision therefore remains that the complaint should be upheld  for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
As set out in the provisional decision, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr G has suffered as a result of making the transfers and 
switch.
2. Take ownership of the Store First and GAS Verdant investments if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Gs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr G direct. In either case the payment should 
take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr G has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, with respect to the money purchase pension, Carey should work out the likely 
value of Mr Gs pension as at the date of this decision, had he left it where it was instead 
of switching to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mr G's former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining 
a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index 
should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
With respect to the defined benefit transfers Carey should calculate redress in line with 
The FCAs pension review guidance in October 2017 
(https: //www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised- guidance/fg17-9.pdf) using the most 
recent financial assumptions published.
The notional transfer value of the money purchase pension should be 
compared to that proportion of the transfer value of the SIPP that is 
represented by that switch. This will show the loss Mr G has suffered as to 
the money purchase pension.
The Store First and GAS Verdant investments should be assumed to have no value.
2. Take ownership of the Store First and Gas Verdant investments
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, 
here, I am able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand 
Carey has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is 
a fair approach in the circumstances of this case, as it may allow the SIPP to close 
(subject to the position with the Gas Verdant investment) and gives Carey the option of 
retaining the investment or realising its current market value. If the Gas Verdant 
investment still exists then Carey should also take ownership of it.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First and Gas Verdant investments 
they should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely they 
will have any significant realisable value in the future. I understand Mr G has the 
option of returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for nil consideration. 
That may enable him (subject to the position with the Gas Verdant investment) to 
close his SIPP, if Carey does not take ownership of the Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr G decides not to 
transfer it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs 
associated with that investment such as business rates, ground rent and any other 
charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs.
He would only be liable for any SIPP fees if the Gas Verdant can be sold or no longer 
exists. If Carey does not take ownership of the Gas Verdant investment and it still 
exists and cannot be sold, then Carey should waive any SIPP fees until it can be sold 
or ceases to exist.3.Pay compensation to Mr G for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr G has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for 
the loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr G could claim. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mr Gs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr G may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr G direct. But had it been possible to 
pay the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Mr G should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mr Gs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr 
G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr G would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional 
allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr G has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr G cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused 
him upset. I note the Court of Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non 
financial loss. But my role here is to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in 
the particular circumstances of this case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to 
compensate for the upset Mr G has suffered.
determination and money award: my final decision is that Carey pay Mr G 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr 
G within 90 days of the date Carey receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, 
in excess of 90 days, that it takes Carey to pay Mr G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation 
is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend that Carey pays Mr G the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Carey to pay Mr G from the date it receives notification of 
his acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr G accepts my determination, the money award is binding on Options SIPP UK LLP. 
My recommendation is not binding on Options SIPP UK LLP.Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr G 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Options SIPP UK LLP should calculate and pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman