DRN-3357415
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC declined his claim under Section 75 (S75) Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
On 4 March 2020, Mr F bought three tickets for him and his friends to attend a football 
match. The tickets were bought using his Lloyds credit card, and were purchased direct from 
the football club he supported, who I will refer to as W. The match itself was taking place in 
Greece a week or so later. 
On the same day, Mr F used the same card to book flights, accommodation, and airport 
transfers for the three people travelling. He paid a total of £1,671 for this, through a travel 
agent Ill refer to as E. The travelling party were due to depart on 11 March and return on
13 March 2020. 
On 9 March 2020 the Greek authority announced that the football match would be going 
ahead but would be played behind closed doors due to the outbreak of COVID-19. This 
meant that Mr F and his friends wouldnt be able to access the stadium to watch it. He 
contacted E the next day to cancel the flights, accommodation and transfers and was told no 
refund would be given for cancellation as it was within seven days of the proposed trip taking 
place. 
Mr F received his ticket money back from W but raised a S75 claim with Lloyds to try and 
recover his consequential losses, namely the money he had paid for the flights, 
accommodation, and transfers. He felt W were in breach of their contract by selling him 
tickets to a match that couldnt be attended. As he had paid with his Lloyds credit card, he 
said Lloyds were jointly and severally liable for that breach of contract. 
Lloyds took some time to consider Mr Fs claim. They declined it. They said Mr F had 
cancelled the flights himself so there was no breach of contract by E. Lloyds also said W had 
refunded Mr Fs ticket money, so had not breached their contract with him either. They paid 
Mr F £98 for the upset theyd caused him by not responding to him at certain points during 
their handling of the S75 claim. 
Mr F didnt accept this and didnt think Lloyds had understood the main point of his 
complaint. He accepted he wouldnt get a refund from E but maintained W had breached 
their contract with him and his consequential losses should be paid. He brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said that it wasnt clear if there was a 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship in place to enable a S75 claim to be considered. 
As the match tickets were for a match taking place in Greece and not in Ws stadium, our 
investigator said it wasnt clear what Ws function was in providing the service to Mr F. 
However, he said that he didnt believe there was enough evidence to suggest there had 
been a breach of contract in any case and didnt ask Lloyds to do anything further. Our 
investigator also explained that Mr F would only be entitled to his own consequential losses 
were a breach of contract deemed to have taken place  he wouldnt be entitled for the 
losses claimed by the other people travelling. 
Mr F didnt agree with this. He continued to maintain that he had a valid claim for the 
travelling parties consequential losses. He also felt the DCS link was in place. 
As Mr F didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice. 
In this case the relevant law includes S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. S75 says that in 
certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of goods or services. This is subject to certain criteria that need to be satisfied such as the 
claim has to be within specific financial limits and the existence of debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) relationship between the parties. 
There is some ambiguity around Ws part in the DCS relationship in this case. There arent 
any available terms and conditions that confirm their responsibility to Mr F when supplying 
the ticket. The match wasnt being played in Ws stadium, so they werent able to control or 
decide who could or could not attend the match. So, its possible W were only acting as an 
agent for the home team, the team located in Greece, and their obligations to Mr F might 
purely have been limited to the supply of a ticket for the match when it was paid for. 
This would have implications on the DCS relationship as Mr F could only hold Lloyds liable 
under S75 for breaches of his contract with W, not one with the home team, (if it were the 
case that one existed). And if that contract with W didnt include an obligation to provide 
admittance to the stadium, then the failure to allow Mr F entry to the stadium would be a 
matter concerning his contract with the home team, not W. And the necessary DCS 
relationship would not be made out for the type of claim Mr F is making. There isnt enough 
evidence to clarify this aspect, but nevertheless there are other reasons why I dont find 
Lloyds unfairly declined Mr Fs claim.
Mr F has said a breach of contract occurred when he was prevented from attending the 
match. And his hotel and flights package are an additional loss hes incurred following that 
breach. But for me to decide the extent of Lloyds liability to Mr F for a breach of contract in 
this case I need to be able to consider the terms and conditions relating to the booking of the 
tickets. 
Mr F hasnt supplied any terms and conditions from W that relate to his booking and neither 
our investigator or I have been able to find any applicable terms and conditions on Ws 
website explaining their liability for matches away from their stadium. There are terms and 
conditions available for matches taking place at Ws stadium  but they cant be applied 
here. 
Without the terms and conditions of the booking I cant determine if there has been a breach 
of contract. I dont know if Ws responsibilities extended to promise Mr F admittance to the 
stadium, or, importantly, what they would be liable for if admittance wasnt permitted for the 
reason given to Mr F. And without that clarity, I cant decide that Lloyds have treated Mr F unfairly in how theyve handled his S75 claim. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, but I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman