DRN-3931729
The complaint
Mr F complains Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) accepted investment instructions from 
his financial adviser without his authority, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr F has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with SL, which is operated through its 
Wrap platform, a product designed for use by financial advisers on behalf of their clients. 
SLs records showed Mr Fs adviser was a firm Ill refer to as T.
In January 2020 SL acted on a letter provided by Mr Fs solicitors to update his address in 
the European country where he now lives. The cash account of Mr Fs SIPP held around 
£115,000 being the proceeds of a commercial property hed sold in September 2021. Mr Fs 
SIPP held around £78,000 of shares in SMT (an investment trust managed by Baillie 
Gifford). He wished to use the cash funds to purchase additional shares in SMT, so that 
when he turned 55 in May 2022 and could access his pension, he could then release 25% of 
the value as a tax-free lump sum.
Mr F says when he moved abroad T said it could no longer act for him. So Mr F needed to 
appoint a new adviser and update SL with the details. But Mr F didnt really want to pay an 
advisers fee simply to release the tax-free cash (TFC) from his SIPP. 
On 3 November 2021 T emailed SL to say he was looking to invest funds for a client but 
wasnt sure how to operate the Wrap platform. On 10 November 2021 SL sent T its non-
Wrap adviser guide, which included various templates, including one to arrange deals. In 
early December 2021 SL received a letter of authority in favour of Mr Fs new financial 
advisers and sent them some information. 
On 16 December 2021 Mr F called SLs Wrap support team to find out how he could place a 
trade using the funds in his cash account. The call handler explained Mr F couldnt trade 
himself, only a financial adviser could do that, and he was calling on the line meant for 
financial advisers. So Mr F instructed SL to remove T as his financial adviser. But this would 
take ten working days to process, and his new adviser couldnt give instructions until T was 
removed. Mr F asked to speak to someone senior who could help him, so was transferred to 
the non-advised platform team to take his instructions. 
While that call was happening, T also called SL for guidance about how to place a trade on 
the platform, and SL talked him through how to complete the template on the system. 
The non-advised platform call handler explained she could take Mr Fs instructions ready for 
when T was removed as his adviser. But when Mr F explained he wanted to buy shares, he 
was told direct clients could give instructions to buy into the platforms mutual funds, but 
external trades such as shares still had to come through a financial adviser. When Mr F 
suggested using his European adviser who was helping him with another matter, SL said it 
could only accept their instructions once T had been removed. And it wasnt clear if an 
offshore adviser would be acceptable. So the issue wasnt resolved in that call. 
On Friday 17 December SL received instructions from T to purchase shares in SMT on Mr 
Fs behalf. The purchase of 8,329 shares in SMT was carried out the next working day, 
Monday 20 December at a cost of just under £112,988. Mr F was unaware the funds had 
been invested, as he didnt receive the confirmation SL sent. SL sent Mr F a confirmation to 
show T was removed from Mr Fs plan on 4 January 2022. And on 2 February 2022 SL sent 
Mr F a statement which showed the investment in his SIPP. Mr F didnt receive any of this 
correspondence, as the address held in SLs records was slightly wrong.
Mr F was frustrated that while his funds remained in cash he was losing out on investment 
returns, so he complained SL wasnt helping him. When Mr F found out the trade had been 
placed by T, he complained it had been done without his knowledge or consent. SL didnt 
uphold the complaint, explaining its Wrap platform is an online proposition allowing advisers 
to transact on behalf of clients. At the relevant time T was Mr Fs named adviser and T 
hadnt told SL it could no longer act for Mr F now he lived abroad. It said the transaction 
couldnt be reversed, as share purchases are binding agreements with no cooling-off period, 
and Mr F had clearly wanted to invest in SMT. However it paid £150 to his Wrap cash 
account to acknowledge his complaint had been erroneously marked as resolved. Mr F then 
referred his complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January 2023 in which I made the following 
findings, in summary:
The decision only considers the actions of SL, not any other party involved in the 
transaction, which may be mentioned for context.
Mr F appears to have refocussed his complaint, as he was initially unhappy SL 
wouldnt act on his instructions to purchase shares in SMT, as the terms of his Wrap 
SIPP require such instructions to come via a financial adviser. This is set out in SLs 
Wrap terms and conditions at points 1.1 and 6.1. 
But when Mr F found SL had acted on Ts instructions to purchase the shares, he 
complained it had done so without his knowledge or consent.
If SL had accepted Mr F as a direct client without a financial adviser, hed only be 
permitted to invest in the range of mutual funds available on the platform. Instructions 
to purchase riskier investments such as shares must come via a financial adviser. 
This condition is set out in the Wrap client terms and conditions at points 11.1 and 
11.2.
Point 5.5 of the SIPP terms and conditions makes clear that when SL accepts 
investment instructions it doesnt offer an opinion on the suitability, likely performance 
or merits of the investment and is under no obligation to do so. It goes on You are 
relying on your own assessment of these matters and on any advice received from 
your financial adviser So SL cant be held responsible if Mr F is unhappy with his 
own investment decisions, or those made by his financial adviser on his behalf. 
T had previously given instructions by email to purchase £78,000 of SMT shares on 
Mr Fs behalf in 2018. But T was unfamiliar with using the online platform;
T had emailed SL on 3 November 2021 asking how to purchase shares from a cash 
account, which suggested to me Mr F had made T aware of his intention to use the 
property sale proceeds to increase his holding in SMT shares;
I was satisfied Mr F was told by SL it would take ten working days to remove T as his 
advisers, which stretched into the new year due to the festive break;
Id seen no evidence SL had been made aware T could no longer act for Mr F now 
he lived abroad;
When SL wouldnt take Mr Fs instructions to purchase the shares, hed put pressure 
on the staff by asking to speak to someone senior who could help him, or he would 
close his account and complain about SL in the media;
The call from T came in at the same time Mr F was speaking to SL, so there was no 
opportunity to identify the two conflicting instructions;T was on record as Mr Fs advisers, so I didnt think it was unreasonable for SL to 
have acted on Ts instructions, which were in line with instructions Mr F himself had 
given SL, so there were no grounds to require SL to reverse the transaction. 
If Mr Fs shares in SMT have fallen in value, until they are sold he hasnt crystallised 
his loss. SL calculated the fall in value as around £24,000, not the £200,000 claimed 
by Mr F.
The change of address instructions from Mr Fs solicitor quoted the wrong property 
number (23 instead of 25) and transposed two digits of the postal code. SL had 
updated Mr Fs address in its records in good faith so werent responsible for the 
correspondence not reaching him. 
T had also quoted the incorrect address when going through security with SL, 
suggesting the adviser had been given the wrong information also;
Mr F had given his correct address details when going through security with SL, but 
his identity was confirmed using other information (date of birth, national insurance 
number) so the error wasnt identified then. 
But even if Mr Fs address had been correct in SLs records, hed have received the 
share purchase confirmation after the transaction had happened, which wouldnt 
have changed his position; 
So in summary I agreed with the investigator the complaint shouldnt be upheld, as I 
found it was reasonable for SL to have acted on Ts instructions, which were in line 
with instructions given by Mr F himself. I didnt think SL had acted unfairly, and its 
actions hadnt caused Mr F a financial loss.
The investigator had assumed the £150 compensation SL paid related to the 
incorrect change of address, whereas it was actually for poor complaint handling, as 
Mr Fs complaint had been erroneously marked as resolved. 
I explained I have no power to award compensation for complaint handling. And as I 
hadnt found in Mr Fs favour in relation to the other elements of his complaint, it 
followed I didnt award anything further. 
Responses to the provisional decision
SL accepted the findings and had nothing further to add. 
Mr F responded making the following points in summary:
We should speak to his financial adviser T to confirm Mr F had been told they could 
no longer act for him a year previously;
Its unacceptable we are not prepared to investigate the actions of T;
He is the victim, and the situation is causing him stress and affecting his mental 
health and welfare, so he didnt want to receive any more emails from us;
We should check with SL whether T had been removed as his adviser and then 
reinstated;
So the complaint has been returned to me to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of what Mr F said, he was asked if he wished to continue with his complaint and he 
confirmed he did. 
Having considered everything again, including the points made by Mr F I see no reason to 
depart from the findings in the provisional decision.Ill repeat that Mr Fs complaint was about the actions of SL, not his financial advisers T, or 
the firm which provided the incorrect change of address details. If Mr F has concerns about 
the actions of other parties he should take those up with them direct. But from the evidence 
Ive seen Im satisfied SL hadnt been made aware by T that it was no longer able to act for 
Mr F. Nor was SL aware the change of address instructions contained errors.
As Mr F wondered if T had been removed as Mr Fs advisers in SLs records and then 
reinstated, the investigator asked SL about this. SL confirmed T hadnt been removed and 
reinstated. They were shown on its records as Mr Fs advisers throughout. And Mr F hasnt 
provided any evidence to show this happened. 
Im sorry to hear of the impact of the situation on Mr Fs health and wellbeing, and that hed 
decided to change his retirement plans. But Im just looking at whether SL can fairly be held 
responsible for that. Im satisfied it was reasonable for SL to have acted on Ts instructions 
to purchase shares in SMT, which in any event, is exactly what Mr F had asked SL to do on 
his behalf. 
So I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and make no award. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman