DRN-4319752
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Advantage includes its agents and although Mr Ps 
complaint has been advanced by his representative, I will mainly refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr P made a claim under his motor insurance policy and his car was repaired by Advantage. 
But when his car was returned he felt the car wasnt fully repaired and additional damage 
had been caused to his car. And so, he complained to Advantage and then this Service 
about this.
The settlement of the claim was drawn out and Advantage looked to pay Mr P a cash-in-lieu 
(CIL) payment for the repair of his car. But Mr P wasnt happy with the amount offered as his 
own repairing garage thought it would cost a lot more to repair. After a prolonged period and 
a lot of intervention and chasing from Mr P Advantage agreed to pay Mr Ps full costs. And it 
offered £250 by way of compensation for the delay and poor service Mr P received 
alongside paying for hire car costs and paying a £100 loss of use payment (LofU).
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P and upheld his complaint. He undertook a 
thorough investigation and questioned Advantage about how it came to its decision to pay 
the full amount Mr P incurred having his car fully repaired privately. This was because Mr P 
questioned how the engineer had concluded the costings of the repair. And he thought 
Advantage should increase the level of compensation by £250 in acknowledgment of the 
various errors it made. 
As Mr P didnt agree and felt he should be paid a lot more in compensation (over £1,500), 
the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand why Mr P is unhappy as he has had to face a fair degree 
of inconvenience in advancing his complaint, chasing Advantage and getting his car fully 
repaired. But I agree with our investigator that an additional £250 by way of compensation, 
now the full CIL payment has been agreed, is fair. 
As the majority of the complaint has been finalised I dont propose to go over the finer detail 
again here and Ill just look to focus on the level of compensation as that is the main thing Mr 
P remains unhappy about. But I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into 
account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. 
If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, 
its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or 
provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the 
complaint.
I know Mr P thinks Advantage have acted fraudulently in relation to how it has considered 
his claim. And especially in relation to the independent reports it commissioned in relation to 
the repair of his car that led to its initial offer that he thought was deliberately low. I can 
understand his position and I can see that our investigator tried to understand what went 
wrong and what led to Advantages lower offer. 
However, Advantage eventually agreed to pay the full amount Mr Ps garage suggested it 
would cost to pay to repair all the damage he wanted. The aim of this Service in looking at 
complaints is to try and put a consumer back into the position they wouldve been but for the 
error made. In paying the full costs Mr P will incur, some as a gesture of goodwill, Mr P has 
been put back into the position he wouldve been but for the error. So, the only thing left to 
consider is the delay, inconvenience and poor service Mr P had to face in finalising this 
position.
I know Mr Ps representative has suggested Mr P should be paid the original shortfall from 
what Advantage initially offered to what he was eventually paid for the repair and rectification 
work (amounting to over £1500). But that isnt how we look at any poor service a consumer 
receives. And in fact, this would be classed as betterment as I dont think Advantage should 
pay twice for the level of work required.
Our awards for compensation are generally modest and I note that Advantage has paid Mr P 
£100 LofU and paid £250 compensation already. And I can see that it paid over £300 
towards hire car costs as a gesture of goodwill as well so the level of compensation already 
awarded was relatively high and I dont think an award of over £1,500 would be fair here. 
Im not looking to punish a business for any errors made when I look at compensation levels. 
And so, I think an additional £250 for the ongoing stress and inconvenience Mr P faced in 
getting Advantage to pay his own garages quotation, including the hassle of chasing 
Advantage and its independent engineers to get to the bottom of why its quotes were so 
much lower, seems fair.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Advantage to pay Mr P an additional £250 compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think this complaint should be upheld. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P an additional £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman