DRN-4320686
The complaint
Miss B complains that Fairscore Ltd trading as Updraft (Updraft) irresponsibly gave her a 
loan that she couldnt afford on 19 October 2021.
What happened
In 2021, Miss B applied for a loan with Updraft. The loan amount was £4,500 and the 
monthly repayment was £173.22. 
In 2023, Miss B complained to Updraft to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Updraft ought to have made a better effort 
to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint not be upheld. Miss B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Updraft will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Bs complaint is that Updraft made credit available that was unaffordable. Updraft 
has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss B provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Miss Bs 
name to assess Miss Bs level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Updraft 
decided to agree to the credit limit of £4,500. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the sale. 
Updraft thinks its checks were proportionate. Its possible that the checks that Updraft 
completed as proportionate checks could have been more searching. But even had the 
checks been different or more thorough, Im not persuaded that Updraft would have 
thought they ought not to lend to Miss B. Ill explain why I say that.
I have noted that Miss Bs credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. 
When I say this, I mean that Miss Bs management of her existing credit was devoid of 
any recent adverse marking. Miss Bs credit report showed no recent history of CCJs, 
defaults or any late payments. This suggests that if there were issues, as Miss B has 
said, they had not found their way onto this credit reference agencys report, which was 
clean. 
So, it would have seemed to Updraft from the information they had from credit reference 
agencies that, at the point that the lending decision was made, Miss B was affording her 
existing credit. And so, Updraft were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the 
lending from that. 
And so, I dont think that the information that Updraft had at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of 
Miss Bs expenditure. And Miss B has clarified her income from the time of the lending 
decision. Miss Bs income was far from modest. And the credit limit was not immodest 
compared to that income. And so, Im not persuaded that more searching checks would 
have provided Updraft with sufficient reason not to lend money to Miss B or that the new 
borrowing was sufficient to be automatically unreasonable.  
Miss B thinks the weight of her existing credit made the loan unreasonable. But Miss B 
told us that the purpose of the loan was to pay off other debts. So, I dont see the activity 
on the card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by Updraft, adding to an 
already large amount of personal borrowing. Instead, rather than the new credit adding to 
Miss Bs burden of credit, in terms of total debt and the monthly cost of servicing that debt, 
it looks like Miss B was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage her 
existing debt by taking out this loan and using it to pay off other debts that were 
presumably on less favourable terms. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Updraft to have facilitated that. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Updraft to think that the credit it 
provided Miss B was unreasonable in 2021 or that more searching checks would have 
prompted them to have acted differently than they did. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because she has 
invested time and energy in pursuing her complaint. But I want Miss B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the lending decision, I have not 
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have seen insufficient evidence to 
think that the credit Updraft are responsible for was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman