DRN-3462857
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about Halifax Share Dealing Limiteds role in the delays in transferring his
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from his original provider to a Halifax Share Dealing
Limited SIPP.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. I have reproduced the relevant sections of that decision here, 
and it forms part of this final decision.
Mr S had a SIPP with a pension company I will call Provider A. Mr S wanted to transfer his
SIPP to a new SIPP that was in effect a joint venture between Halifax Share Dealing Limited
(Halifax SDL) and another firm which I will call Firm B. Halifax SDL provided investment
services, and Firm B the administration services. However both firms were involved in the
transfer process.
The Application Form for the SIPP was headed with both Halifax SDL and Firm Bs name. It
said, amongst other things:
This is an application form to establish a Halifax Share Dealing Limited SIPP administered
by [Firm B].
Under the terms of an agreement between [Firm B] and Halifax Share Dealing Limited,
[Firm B] provides the pension administration services for your SIPP and Halifax Share
Dealing Limited provides the investment services for your SIPP.
In this Application Form, please note that when we refer to We or Us we are referring to
Halifax Share Dealing Limited, [Firm B], and [the Trustees].
Under Important Notes it said:
4. For all transfers, please complete the Transfer Form(s) and then send the form to the
address at the end of the declaration in Section 8. [Firm B] will then contact the transferring
pension provider.
The Application Form was to be sent to:
Halifax Share Dealing SIPP Administration Team
Firm B.
Firm B received the SIPP transfer form on 2 July 2019. The transfer wasnt completed until
October 2020  a period of approximately 16 months.
Mr S complained to Halifax SDL, and it was subsequently referred to us. One of our
investigators considered the complaint. In summary, he didnt recommend that the complaint
should be upheld, as he didnt think that there had been delays in Halifax SDLs contact with
Provider A or Firm B.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings, and his complaint was referred to me to
consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided to Mr S at the outset said a transfer usually took 6-8 weeks. In my
experience this is a common timeframe often quoted by companies involved in the transfer
process. But I think whats key is that a transfer is completed in an efficient and timely
manner, and whats timely will depend on the specific facts of the transfer.
As set out above, there were four parties involved in the transfer: Mr S, Halifax SDL,
Provider A and Firm B. A lot of correspondence was exchanged between the parties over
the period from 2 July 2019 to October 2020. I havent repeated it all in detail here - the facts
of the case dont appear to be in dispute; what information was provided to what party, when
it was received, by whom and when. But a very brief summary of the events is:
Firm B received the application to transfer on 2 July 2019.
There was an issue with the SEDOL codes, but Mr S provided them the next day.
There was an issue about not being able to transfer two funds  but again that was 
addressed within days as Mr S that said he would sell those assets if needed.
I understand Halifax SDLs mailbox wasnt working correctly, and it hadnt received 
Firm Bs e-mails about the transfer to it. Halifax SDL didnt become aware of the 
transfer until 22 August 2019.
Firm B wrote to Provider A to initiate the transfer on 19 September 2019. Halifax SDL 
cancelled the transfer process at its end on 20 September 2019  as it hadnt heard 
anything from Provider A.
However in the background Firm B was waiting on Provider A in any event until 
around 24 October 2019.
There were further exchanges between Firm B and Halifax SDL from 29 October to 
27 January 2020 (again clarification was sought with Mr S about what he wanted to 
do with two assets that couldnt be transferred; again this only took a few days).
On 27 January 2020 transfer instructions were sent to Provider A and it has 
acknowledged it received them on 29 January 2020.
As I said above, the new SIPP was in effect a joint venture provided by Halifax SDL and 
Firm B. The two firms had an agreement to offer this SIPP. But I dont think the transfer
process should have taken significantly longer because of the administration process and
communications between Halifax SDL and Firm B.
However it appears to me that from 2 July 2019 to 27 Jan 2020 (approximately 29 weeks),Halifax SDL and Firm B were processing the transfer. There were a couple of issues that
needed to be ironed out with Mr S, but these only took a few days. And it appears that Firm
B was waiting on Provider A for about 5 weeks (19 Sept-24 Oct)  even though Halifax SDL
had cancelled the transaction at its end. So taking away this five-week period, the process
was in Halifax SDL/Firm Bs hands for around 24 weeks up to the end of January 2020.
Ive gone on to consider the period from February to October 2020. Although there was a
problem with transferring one of the funds in September/October 2020, this was again
resolved within a few days. Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Halifax SDL/Firm B being
responsible for any material delays after January 2020.
Clearly Halifax SDL and Firm B would need to work together to set up the SIPP. So this
might have a slight impact on the time taken to set it up. But I dont think the arrangement
between the two firms should have led to any material delays.
The SIPP was high value and involved an in-specie transfer of assets. So that could have
involved extra administrative steps which could lead to a longer transfer time. But as I have
said, each transfer has to be considered on its own circumstances.
I think the question is, taking the particular circumstances into account, did Halifax SDL and
Firm B complete their part of the transfer in an efficient and timely manner during the period
2 July 2019 to 27 January 2020. Although there was the 5-week period I have referred to
above, there doesnt appear to be anything outside of both firms control to explain why it
took 24 weeks for their part of the process. I dont think the processing was timely, efficient
or reasonable, in the particular circumstances of the transfer. It appears the time taken was
due to the administration processes between Halifax SDL and Firm B. As I said, further
information was required from Mr S on occasion, but he replied very promptly  this didnt
cause any material delay.
Taking all this into account, I think Halifax SDL should compensate Mr S for any losses
flowing from the delays caused by it and Firm Bs processing of the transfer.
In assessing Mr S complaint, I am bound to follow the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP
Rules) that are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
DISP Rule 3.6.1 provides that:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And DISP 3.6.3 provides that:
Where a complainant makes complaints against more than one respondent in respect of
connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the respondents must
contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the Ombudsman considers
appropriate.
In my view the SIPP was offered on a joint basis and this is consistent with the
documentation provided to Mr S at the time. Although there are some individual failings by
Halifax SDL (for example its mailbox not working, and it cancelling the transfer from its end 
despite ongoing work by Firm B), I think it was the overall processing time that was
unreasonable that was due, in part, to both firms involvement. In my view it is therefore fair
and reasonable to determine that Halifax SDL contributes 50% of the award I intend to make
to Mr S.For the reasons outlined above, my provisional decision was to uphold Mr S complaint. I 
went on to set out how I thought Halifax SDL should calculate and pay fair compensation to 
Mr S.
I asked both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr S said, in summary, that he would like to see the evidence suggesting that Halifax 
SDL/Firm B werent responsible for any material delays after January 2020 as he didnt think 
it would ordinarily take a further 10 months to transfer the balance of the pension. He asked 
why interest would not be chargeable on the compensation given the loss was incurred 
some 34 months ago. Mr S also said he had Fixed Protection 2014 so any payment made 
into the pension would remove that protection. So he said any payment should be made to 
him direct. He also said he was a higher rate taxpayer and his financial adviser expected him 
to continue to be during retirement, so any compensation should take that into account.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
We sent Mr S copies of the evidence he had requested. In response to the points that Mr S 
had raised, I said that Halifax SDL and Firm B werent the only parties involved in the 
transfer and from February 2020 they were waiting on Provider A to progress matters. I said 
that as Mr S has Fixed Protection I intended to direct Halifax SDL to pay the compensation 
directly to Mr S. And that this should take into account Mr S will be a higher rate taxpayer  
so a deduction at the higher rate will apply on 75% of the compensation (but not to the 
award for distress and inconvenience). 
I also said that I agreed with Mr S that interest should be added to the amount of 
compensation calculated in 3 (in the provisional decision). I said I intended to award interest 
in line with that earned in Firm Bs cash account from 16 June 2020 (18 weeks prior to the 
date the transfer was completed) to the date of the final decision.
Mr S responded to say that although he wasnt convinced e-mail was the best way of getting 
things done, he was willing to close the complaint in line with what I had recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision as set out above  albeit with slightly amended compensation. 
Putting things right
Mr S said that his SIPP with Provider A had higher fees than the SIPP with Firm B. As a 
result he would have paid lower fees if the transfer had been completed at an earlier date.
He also said the interest rate on cash holdings in the SIPP with Firm B was higher than
the SIPP with Provider A. And therefore he has lost out on interest that he would otherwise
have been paid through an earlier transfer. 
As I set out above, in my view Halifax SDL and Firm B were effectively responsible for 
processing their part of the transfer for 24 weeks during the period 2 July 2019 to 27 January 
2020. I also explained that in my view the time to process a transfer is fact specific and 
depended on the specific circumstances. However, in order to decide on fair compensation, I 
need to decide what a reasonable period would have been to process a transfer of this type and make an allowance for it in the 24 weeks. Given that Halifax SDL and Firm B were on 
one side of the transaction, and Provider A on the other, I think a period of six weeks was 
reasonable for Halifax SDL (and Firm B), as a proportion of a longer period to complete it 
overall (given some time would also be allocated to Provider A). So I order that Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited compensate Mr S on the following basis:
1. Calculate (with the help of Provider A) 18 weeks worth of fees that Mr S paid on his
SIPP with Provider A. Deduct 18 weeks worth of fees that he would have paid on the
same value if invested in Firm Bs SIPP.
2. Calculate the interest on cash holdings that Mr S would have earned in his SIPP with
Firm B for 18 weeks. Deduct 18 weeks worth of interest on those same cash
holdings that Mr S accrued in Provider As SIPP.
3. Compensation is 1 plus 2.
4. Interest at the rate earned in Firm Bs cash account should be added to the amount 
calculated in 3 from 16 June 2020 (18 weeks prior to the date the transfer was completed) to 
the date of the final decision.
Additional interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added from the date of the 
final decision to the date of settlement, but only if settlement isnt made within 28 days of Our 
Service notifying Halifax Share Dealing Limited of Mr S acceptance of this final decision.
Mr S has Fixed Protection. Therefore Halifax Share Dealing Limited shouldnt pay the 
compensation into Mr S pension plan  it should pay it direct to Mr S. 
The compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid on it. Mr S has said he will be a higher rate taxpayer in retirement.
So the reduction should equal the higher rate, but only on 75% of the compensation (but not 
to the award for distress and inconvenience).
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should also pay Mr S £150 directly for the distress
and inconvenience Im satisfied the delayed transfer caused, and over a prolonged period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. 
I order Halifax Share Dealing Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr S as I have 
outlined above under Putting things right. As I said, as Mr S has Fixed Protection the 
compensation should be paid to Mr S directly and not into his pension. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman