DRN-3024921
The complaint
Mr S complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly declined his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr S purchased an income protection policy in March 2020. The policy was designed to 
provide a benefit in the event of accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. Mr S 
claimed on the policy in August 2020 after his employment was terminated, but 
Society of Lloyds declined the claim on two grounds. 
Firstly, it said his policy contained an initial exclusion period which meant unemployment 
claims werent permitted where a policy holder had been made aware of an unemployment 
risk within 90 days of the policy starting. Society of Lloyds explained evidence from Mr Ss 
former employer suggested hed been made aware of potential redundancies via a video 
announcement during that time frame, and so, wasnt eligible to make his claim. 
Secondly, Society of Lloyds explained the policy only provided cover for unemployment that 
was unexpected and beyond a policy holders control, and the available evidence suggested 
Mr S had been subjected to a number of performance reviews prior to his termination. So 
Society of Lloyds said it couldnt consider the unemployment to be unexpected or beyond 
Mr Ss control. 
Mr S disagreed with the decline. He said he hadnt been made aware of an unemployment 
risk during the initial exclusion period and he made specific references to what his former 
employer had said during the announcement that had been mentioned. 
In response to the complaint Society of Lloyds said there wasnt sufficient evidence to have 
declined the claim on the grounds of Mr Ss performance reviews. But Society of Lloyds 
maintained that the claim had been declined fairly on the basis of Mr S being made aware of 
an unemployment risk during the policys initial exclusion period. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but didnt recommend Mr Ss 
complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence for Society of Lloyds to 
have reasonably declined the claim in relation to Mr Ss performance. But she didnt think it 
was unreasonable for it to have declined the claim based on the evidence surrounding Mr S 
being made aware of a risk of unemployment.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion and reiterated his concerns. So as no 
agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and regulations set out that Society of Lloyds must consider claims both 
promptly and fairly, and must not reject them unreasonably. 
An insurance product information document (IPID) is designed to provide essential 
information about a policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to Mr Ss 
policy says the following:
What is not insured?
Being made unemployed or having awareness of any impending unemployment or 
becoming a carer at the start date or within the 90 day initial exclusion period.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy define that the initial exclusion period means: 
90 days immediately following the policy start date or amendment date when you cannot 
claim for unemployment. 
And they also set out that cover isnt available for unemployment claims during the initial 
exclusion period where:
You are made aware that there is a risk you could be made unemployed even if the formal 
notification of your unemployment was issued outside of this period.
Mr Ss policy started on 6 March 2020 which means his initial exclusion period would have 
ended on 3 June 2020. And so, in view of the above, if there was evidence to suggest he 
was aware of any impending unemployment prior to that date, he wouldnt have been eligible 
to make a claim. 
As part of considering his claim, Society of Lloyds asked Mr Ss former employer to provide 
some information about the circumstances surrounding his unemployment. Ive seen a copy 
of what Mr Ss former employer provided, and it told Society of Lloyds the first indication 
Mr S had of his termination was 13 July 2020. This date falls outside the initial exclusion 
period, however, within the same response provided the former employer explained it had 
made an announcement to all staff about the possibility of redundancies on 1 June 2020 via 
a pre-recorded video announcement. And this date does fall within the initial exclusion 
period. 
I am aware that Mr S has said he didnt interpret there being the possibility of redundancies 
from the announcement his employer made on 1 June 2020. But aside from the individual 
mention of 13 July 2020, the entirety of the evidence provided by Mr Ss former employer 
indicates that the possibility of redundancies was announced to all staff on 1 June 2020. For 
example, the former employer said: 
Announcement made on 01/06/20 about effects of COVID-19 and avenues business was 
exploring to reduce cost, one of these being reduction in capacity. 
And within its termination to Mr S it also said: 
I refer to the announcement made by (xxx, Managing Director), with regards to the effects of 
COVID-19 on the business. Following our factory shutdown, as a business, we made the 
difficult decision to reduce capacity in various areas of the business.
It is clear that Mr S feels very strongly about the announcement made on 1 June 2020 and 
the ways in which he says previous redundancies had been announced. But while I 
empathise with his position, I am not persuaded I can fairly direct Society of Lloyds to 
accept his claim. 
The available evidence in this complaint does suggest that Mr S was made aware there was a risk he could be made unemployed during the 90 days that followed the start date of his 
policy. And because there is no cover available is available in such circumstances, I cannot 
fairly conclude that it was unreasonable of Society of Lloyds to decline Mr Ss claim.  
For the avoidance of doubt, like our investigator I dont think it would have been reasonable 
for Society of Lloyds to decline Mr Ss claim on the grounds of his performance at work and 
thus his unemployment being beyond his control. But as both sides are aware, 
Society of Lloyds has already withdrawn this as a reason for its decline, so I will not address 
this matter further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman