DRN-1845506
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his account. He was unable to access his 
funds for a week which had an impact on his business. 
What happened
Mr G has two accounts with Lloyds.
At the end of October Mr G contacted the bank regarding transactions on his account which 
he didnt recognise. Mr G didnt fully explain to the bank but said he was using cash 
withdrawals to fund his business. Lloyds were concerned that Mr Gs funds were at risk of 
harm.
On 2 November 2019 Mr Gs card was retained by a cash point machine. Two days later his 
two accounts were blocked. Mr G was unhappy he couldnt access his funds, and this was 
causing losses for his business.
He contacted Lloyds. They investigated and told him they were following banking protocol for 
the protection of his money and they were unable to give a time frame for when the accounts 
would be unblocked.
Mr Gs accounts were unblocked on 11 November 2019.
Mr G raised a complaint with Lloyds regarding the account restrictions. Lloyds said that his 
account was subject to a processing delay and they were not able to give a timescale for 
when they would be able to update him.
Mr G continued to contact his relationship manager almost daily to find out what was 
happening with the account.  He says this caused him a great deal of stress and he said he 
was losing money on his business around £10,000 a day. 
As Mr G was unhappy with Lloyds response he came to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She said that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong 
when it blocked Mr Gs accounts. She didnt think the bank had delayed unnecessarily in 
unblocking the accounts. 
Mr G disagreed he said a review should be carried out in 24 hours and the bank should be 
able to estimate how long it would take and inform him of the time schedule and the reasons 
why they might not be able to keep to the original estimate. He said his account had been 
blocked for seven working days. He said in an ideal world the bank should give reasons for 
the block. He said banks have a moral obligation not to deprive their customers of their own 
money.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same view as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation, place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the purpose and 
nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also required to 
carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Lloyds has said that 
Mr Gs account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr G has said he was very inconvenienced when the accounts were blocked as he was 
unable to carry on with his business activities.
Whilst I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Lloyds relied upon, Im satisfied that Lloyds were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Gs accounts. So, I cant say it has done anything 
wrong. The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account also permit Lloyds to block an account. 
Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with them. 
I know Mr G wants Lloyds to provide a timescale for the review of his accounts and explain 
the reason they blocked them. And I can understand Mr Gs frustration that he hasnt been 
provided a detailed explanation. But as the investigator has explained, Lloyds cant tell how 
long their review process should take and is under no obligation to provide this information to 
him, as much as hed like to know. Lloyds let Mr G know in their letter to him on 6 November 
2019 that they were unable to give a timescale for the updates. So, I cant say Lloyds has 
done anything wrong by not providing this information to him. 
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is the length of time his accounts were blocked. And he didnt 
have access to the funds in his account. As Ive already explained businesses have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. 
I do accept that Lloyds took seven days to review Mr Gs account. So, I have considered 
whether Lloyds caused any unnecessary delays when it reviewed Mr Gs accounts and 
having looked at the evidence, I am satisfied that Lloyds didnt delay Mr Gs review 
unnecessarily, so I wont be asking them to do anything else.
I know Mr G thinks that banks should be obliged to conduct their reviews in 24 hours. But I 
do not consider that it would be right for me to conclude it should not have taken in excess of 
any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled to do what it did in order 
to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
I accept that Mr G was inconvenienced by the blocking of his account and I accept he 
contacted his relationship manager nearly every day to find out more information even 
though Lloyds told him they couldnt provide a timescale for him. However, Ive already said 
that Lloyds has procedures it must follow to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Im satisfied that is what it was doing when it reviewed and blocked Mr Gs accounts. So, I 
dont think it has done anything wrong.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman