DRN-1921659
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Share Centre Limited posted a share certificate to him using 
ordinary post and it wasnt delivered. As a result, he is now required to pay an indemnity fee 
of around £1,500 in order to obtain a replacement certificate. 
What happened
Mr S had an account with the Share Centre which he opened in March 2018. At the time he 
sold shares in a company he was invested in and used the Share Centres service to have a 
revised share certificate posted  this was done using standard post. 
A year later, in March 2019, Mr S arranged a further sale of shares and a revised share 
certificate was posted to him again using standard post. Unfortunately, Mr S never received 
this share certificate and in August 2019, he complained. 
The Share Centre looked into Mr Ss complaint, and confirmed that it had posted the share 
certificate on 27 March 2019. It said its terms of business declined any liability for certificates 
which were lost or delayed in the post. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. During her investigation Mr S 
confirmed that he wasnt made aware of the financial risk that he would be liable for if the 
shares had gone missing. He told the investigator that he thought the Share Centre ought to 
have alerted him to the risk and taken steps to mitigate it  he said he thought it hadnt acted 
in line with guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) that said that regulated 
firms needed to treat their customers fairly and bring all material terms and risks in the use 
of their services to his attention. Mr S said that he had enquired about getting an indemnity 
signed by an authorised third party, and this would cost him around £1,500. 
The investigator asked the Share Centre if it had any further information. It told her that it 
didnt scan certificates nor keep copies on a customers record, so it couldnt provide a copy. 
However, it said that when a balance certificate is received by the Share Centre, as in Mr Ss 
case, it is recorded along with the certificate number and a standard letter is issued. The 
Share Centre was able to provide a copy of this letter. This is what happened in Mr Ss case.
The investigator considered all the evidence in the case.  She considered that based on the 
evidence available, as well as what the Share Centre had told her about its usual process, it 
was more likely than not that the certificate was posted as requested. Given that its terms 
were clear about its liability for things mislaid in the post, as well as the fact that the method 
of posting was common across the industry, she didnt consider it would be fair to ask Share 
Centre to compensate Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he said:
He thought the investigators interpretation of the situation placed most of the burden 
on him and this went against the most basic FCA advice. Mr S firmly believed that 
the investigator had not reached a fair outcome and that instead what happened to 
him went against FCA conduct and UK consumer law. 
There was no way of knowing for sure whether the Share Centre actually sent him 
the certificate as they said, nor whether it was done on the day they specified. 
The Share Centres terms and conditions were not presented on the transaction 
documentation. They were hidden on the main website, and this also went against 
basic FCA advice. He didnt agree with the investigator that he was aware of any 
risks just because he had previously requested a certificate from the Share Centre in 
the past. 
He didnt agree that the risk of loss wasnt important enough to be highlighted  he 
queried how a risk which led to him now having a liability of over £1,500 could be 
considered unimportant. 
He also disagreed with the investigators interpretation of the actions he couldve 
taken. He said that the investigators logic basically meant that he would be dictating 
business processes, as a layman, and the business would follow his lead. 
Mr S didnt dispute that the terms existed, but maintained that they were buried on 
the Share Centres website. He said that the company didnt explain in any way what 
he could do to mitigate the risk in any correspondence. He said it was unreasonable 
to suggest that the burden for this fell on him entirely. 
He said that it was a basic principle of contract law that where a party sought to rely 
on a term of the contract, it needed to bring this to the reasonable attention of the 
other party. He said that the more important the term the more effort should be made 
to inform the other party. He said that this principle was even more important given 
the FCA requirements that businesses treat their customers fairly. As a result of the 
term not being brought to his attention, Mr S had now incurred a significant financial 
loss and this wasnt fair. He said the Share Centre was legally obligated to take 
appropriate steps to inform [him] of this risk and it failed to do this. 
Mr S concluded by saying that he thought the ombudsman service would support the 
consumer and understand that they are in a layman position versus a business that had 
more resources and understanding than any individual. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. 
Id like to start by saying that I fully understand why this complaint has caused Mr S so much 
disappointment and frustration. Its clear that, through no fault of his own, a simple 
administrative issue (the posting of an updated share certificate) now has significant financial 
implications.  
But Mr S is wrong in his expectation of what Im bound to consider when looking at his case. 
My role is to be impartial  it isnt to take sides. And it is unfortunately sometimes the case 
that things happen which arent necessarily attributable to the mistake or negligence of 
another party. And whilst I have enormous sympathy for Mr Ss situation, I dont agree with a number of the 
points he has made in support of his complaint. 
There is no particular requirement for the Share Centre to post the share certificate to him in 
any specific way. Theres no rule that says that it must send them out via courier or another 
specialised form of service for example. It chose to send it out, as it had done in the past, via 
Royal Mail standard post. So Ive considered the evidence  and Im satisfied that the Share 
Centre was entitled to send the certificate the way it did, and that there were no errors in the 
address it used. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr S didnt receive the share certificate. But clearly it wouldnt be fair to 
hold the Share Centre responsible for the non-delivery of items by a third party. 
This means that at the outset, I dont consider what the Share Centre did to have been 
negligent or wrong  and therefore I have no basis for concluding that it ought to 
compensate Mr S for something so clearly outside its control. 
Mr S also makes a number of points about the Share Centres terms. Here too Im not in 
agreement with him. The account Mr S had with the Share Centre was an execution-only 
account  in other words, the responsibility for managing his account and understanding the 
terms that governed it was his. Mr S is right that the Share Centre needed to ensure its 
terms were clear about the service it offered  but I dont consider that for this particular 
transaction it needed to send him a copy or remind him of what those terms said. 
And with regards to the Share Centres liability for items lost in the post, I consider the terms 
are clear  clause 21 specifically says that the Share Centre cannot accept any liability for 
certificates or transfer forms which are lost or delayed in the post whether being sent by you 
to us or by us to you. 
I would also add that Im not entirely clear what the terms wouldve told Mr S that he didnt 
already know. I think he probably wouldve known that items could be lost in the post  rare 
though that is. And he had already received a certificate in the past from the Share Centre  
so he knew it wouldnt be posted by courier or recorded delivery. He may not have known 
that should the share certificate go missing, hed have to pay to indemnify the company he 
had shares in  but thats not in the terms. In any event, the indemnity isnt something the 
Share Centre has any control over. So even if I agreed the terms ought to have been more 
prominently displayed, or brought to Mr Ss attention at the time of the transaction (and to be 
clear, Im not making this finding), Im not persuaded it wouldve made any difference to what 
happened. I dont think Mr S wouldve anticipated that his shares may not be delivered and 
theres nothing in the terms that wouldve alerted him to the need to indemnify the company, 
nor quite how much that would cost. 
Much for the same reasons outlined above, I dont agree the Share Centre has breached the 
agreement it had with him nor behaved in a way that contravenes what the regulator expects 
of firms. Mr S, for example, has referenced the FCAs expectation that customers be treated 
fairly  but Im not persuaded Mr S was treated unfairly simply because the certificate was 
posted to him via standard post and not another method. After all, this very same method 
had been used in the past with him specifically, as well as with countless other customers. 
Finally, I can see that Mr S has taken umbrage with the investigators suggestion that there 
were actions he couldve taken to avoid the situation arising. I can understand why it feels to 
him as if a consumer and a layman is being asked to shoulder all of the burden, despite the 
matter not actually arising out of anything the consumer did wrong. But it is the case that, as 
above, the account was Mr Ss responsibility. This means it was his responsibility to consider the risks of the certificate going missing  and decide whether or how to mitigate that risk, for 
example by paying more for postage via a specialised service. 
For all these reasons, and while reiterating my understanding of Mr Ss complaint and his 
predicament, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask the Share Centre to pay 
Mr S any compensation for the certificate not being delivered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman