DRN-3042988
The complaint
Mr D has complained through his representative that PSP Wealth Management Ltd (PSP) 
gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In March 2014 Mr D met with PSP and agreed to transfer out of the OPS into a SIPP. 
This was invested with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) in a growth portfolio.
Records from the time of the sale show Mr D was introduced to PSP by a separate 
introducer firm. However, Mr Ds representative has contested this saying that Mr D never 
approached another firm and wasnt looking for advice about his pension.
The fact find completed at the point of sale by PSP recorded the following information about 
Mr D:
He was 60 years old, turning 61 in December 2014.
He was single.
He had a gross annual income of £15,000.
He held existing equity funds within current pensions.
He held total assets of £114,950 and the only liabilities he had was his mortgage 
which had £28,000 remaining.
Whilst this wasnt recorded in the fact find we know through his representative that Mr D had 
two other pension funds, but this was his largest. 
At the time Mr D was working for an agency and only worked as and when work was offered.
There is a discrepancy about whether Mr D had any financial dependants at the time of the 
advice. PSPs paperwork states he had none, but Mr D says his long-term partner of 20 
years was financially dependent upon him at the time.
Mr Ds OPS contained the following benefits:
At age 65 a guaranteed pension income of £3,083 a year.
At the time of the advice, aged 60, a guaranteed pension income of £1,413 and tax-
free cash of £9,425.
In the suitability report, completed at the time of the advice, PSP recorded that Mr Ds 
objective for transferring his pension was to maximise his benefits and access his tax-free 
lump sum which he wanted for personal use whilst he was still able to enjoy it. It says that 
he had planned to retire in five years time and that he didnt need an income from the 
pension. It also stated that he wanted flexibility when it came to accessing his retirement 
benefits and to be able to pass on death benefits. The suitability report noted that Mr D 
wanted his plan to be reviewed regularly with access to an adviser at any point during the 
year as well as ongoing management of his investments. 
PSP also noted that Mr D had no investment experience (apart from a number of other 
occupational pension plans) but he was perfectly aware of how the stock market linked 
investments worked. On this basis PSP assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as high medium  
a score of six out of ten. And it advised him to transfer his OPS into a capped drawdown 
pension via a SIPP invested with a DFM.
The total pension transfer was £54,894. The tax-free lump that Mr D took in full was 
£13,724.  PSP also arranged for Mr D to make monthly contributions of £374.60 which was 
taken as income from the plan and invested back into the pension through recycling. 
PSP charged Mr D £6,103.26 for arranging the transfer which was comprised of 6% of the 
funds value for facilitating the transfer as well as an amount which represented 50% of 
Mr Ds annual regular contributions, in relation to the advice provided on income recycling. 
PSP also charged 1% per annum for its ongoing service which was to be deducted directly 
from the investment on a monthly basis.
So, the total amount invested into the SIPP was just over £35,000. Mr D was also subject to 
an annual charge for the services of the DFM PSP chose for him. And fees from the SIPP 
provider themselves. 
Mr D, through his representative, complained to PSP that the advice was unsuitable and 
said Mr D should never have transferred away from the OPS. In response to this in August 
2018 PSP offered £4,000 to settle the dispute which included a refund of the fees charged 
for the income recycling which Mr D cancelled after recycling the first months income, as 
well as a refund of trail commission. This wasnt accepted by Mr D and he brought his 
complaint to this service.
I sent Mr D and PSP my provisional findings on 14 June 2021. In it I said that I didnt think 
the advice PSP gave Mr D to transfer the benefits of OPS into a SIPP was suitable. I 
explained that I didnt think the transfer met his objectives over and above what was already 
available to him within his OPS.
Both Mr D and PSP responded to my provisional decision with detailed submissions. The 
case has now been passed back to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made detailed submissions including a number of points to support their 
arguments. Ive considered all of the submissions carefully. But I wont address each and 
every point when setting out my findings, in keeping with the informal nature of our service  
rather, Ive focused on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my 
decision. 
PSP have questioned the impartiality of our service when considering the representations 
made by Mr Ds representative. Theyve pointed out areas where my provisional decision 
differs from the opinion of our investigator. But Im not bound by the original opinion given by 
our investigator in this complaint. And Id like to reassure PSP that Ive looked at the 
complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached my findings based on all the available 
evidence. 
My decision is based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
What were PSPs responsibilities?
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued guidance for transfers 
in circumstances like this one in the Conduct of Business sourcebook (COBS) found in the 
FCA handbook. It said;
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded 
benefits whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
COBS went on to say that PSP had to consider Mr Ds attitude to risk, where relevant, 
in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits given up. PSP also had to clearly inform Mr D of the benefits he was giving up. 
And show;
The extent to which benefits may fall short of replicating those in the OPS.
The uncertainty of the level of benefit that can be obtained from the purchase of a 
future annuity and the prior investment risk to which Mr D would be exposed until the 
annuity was purchased. 
The potential lack of availability of annuity types to replicate the benefits given up. 
(COBS 19.1.7)  
COBS also gave guidance that PSPs suitability report should include a summary of the 
advantages and disadvantages of its recommendation as well as an analysis of the financial 
implications. When doing so, PSP couldnt regard a rate of return that could replicate the 
OPS benefits being given up as sufficient in itself. 
Was PSPs advice suitable?
I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
First of all, I dont think PSP met its obligation under COBS to obtain accurate and full 
information of Mr Ds personal and financial situation. PSP completed a fact find with Mr D 
which recorded some of his financial situation at the time. But I dont think the fact find was 
detailed or accurate enough for PSP to have fully understood their clients situation. I say 
that because the fact find didnt go into any fine detail about his income, expenditure or 
liabilities. Or his likely needs in retirement  other than an annual income of £13,000 which 
wasnt explained further. While there was some conflicting information about Mr Ds 
employment status the fact find did record Mr D as working for an agency as and when there 
was work. But PSP didnt seem to explore how Mr D was meeting his income requirements 
or how they would be met in the future.
The fact find also recorded that Mr D had no other pensions, which was also recorded in the 
suitability letter. But, while this was the largest of Mr Ds pensions, he did have two other 
smaller ones, neither of which were considered when providing Mr D advice about his 
retirement options. 
Following the fact find PSP produced a suitability report in March 2014. And on their 
recommendations, Mr D transferred the guaranteed benefits of his OPS into a SIPP. So, it was really important that Mr D knew the extent to which the benefits of the SIPP may fall 
short of replicating those of the OPS in order to make an informed decision. PSP recorded 
one of Mr Ds objectives as maximising his benefits in retirement. So, it needed to show that 
Mr D could achieve higher benefits by transferring. 
One way in which businesses demonstrated this was to provide customers with the critical 
yield (the average annual returns his new pension would need to achieve in order to match 
the benefits of his OPS). 
The pension transfer analysis recorded the critical yield required to match the OPS at 
retirement as 16.95% per year. But the suitability report recorded a different type of critical 
yield which they called a Type A critical yield. This showed how much the fund would have 
to grow each year to provide an annual income equivalent to what Mr D would have received 
if he purchased an annuity then. The Type A critical yield was recorded as 8.57% to age 65. 
But this wasnt a direct comparison to the OPS and so it didnt demonstrate the returns Mr D 
needed to match his OPS benefits. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate for this period was 4.2% per year for 4 years to retirement in this case. 
The rates were considered achievable for a balanced investor, but even after PSP assessed 
Mr Ds attitude to risk as High Medium, it seems very unlikely Mr D would achieve the critical 
yield of 16.95%, let alone improve on the benefits he was giving up. 
The returns on Mr Ds funds would also have been eroded by the fees he was being 
charged. PSP recommended Mr D invest using a discretionary fund manager (DFM). But the 
services of a DFM can often be more expensive and can have a significant impact on a fund, 
especially a smaller fund. PSP did warn Mr D of this in its small fund warning which stated;
In addition, small funds are particularly vulnerable to adverse investment 
performance and the impact of policy charges (which often make it uneconomical to 
consider this type of contract). 
The suitability report failed to clearly show the individual and overall charges Mr D would be 
subject to. PSP point out that page 10 of the suitability report does show the initial and 
ongoing charges payable to PSP. But they werent the only charges applicable to Mr Ds 
SIPP. He also had the DFMs charges to consider as well as the SIPP platform fees and 
investment portfolio charges.
The reports gave conflicting figures for the charges, for example the key facts document 
recorded an annual management charge of 0.72%, the pension transfer analysis used an 
investment charge of 0.5% and the suitability report said the fee would be a maximum of 
0.6% with a total account cost of 1.61%. PSP say Mr D benefited from discounted rates but
I think that the SIPP was still relatively expensive and likely to erode any growth on Mr Ds 
plan.
Overall, I dont think PSPs advice was likely to meet Mr Ds objective of maximising his 
benefits. He only had a short time to allow the pension to grow to the level he needed to 
provide him with an adequate pension income once it was transferred. However, under the OPS, the benefits were guaranteed as it was linked to his salary and the length of time Mr D 
had worked for that employer. By transferring his OPS benefits PSP in essence locked Mr D 
into a very high likelihood that he would lose a significant amount of income in retirement. 
And as this was his largest pension any reduction in the income it could provide Mr D was 
likely to have an impact on his standard of living in retirement. 
However, there can be several other reasons why transferring OPS benefits can be suitable. 
So, Ive explored Mr Ds needs and other objectives for his pension. And then considered 
whether transferring his OPS benefits achieved them. 
I think its important to point out here that whilst Mr Ds objectives may have been the reason 
that he sought advice, his needs should have also influenced the advice being given. I say 
that because someones objectives arent always realistic or in their best interests. And the 
overarching principles governing PSP said that they needed to work in their clients best 
interests. 
The fact find recorded that Mr D had very little understanding of how his pension operates or 
if it remained suitable for him. I can see Mr D seems to have been focused on obtaining the 
tax-free lump sum from his pension and transferring from the OPS enabled him to receive a 
higher amount than if he had taken his benefits early. But Mr D didnt need the tax free cash 
for anything specific or urgent  he just wanted to use it to enjoy himself. Had Mr D needed 
tax free cash, the early retirement option from the OPS would have provided a tax-free lump 
sum of around £9,400 and an annual income of around £1,400 increasing alongside the 
retail price index to a maximum of 6%.
Given his specific financial circumstances I think PSP should have advised him against 
taking the tax free cash via a transfer of his pension. And I think had PSP done this and also 
explained the long-term effects on Mr D of transferring away from a relatively safe pension 
scheme, its likely he would have made a different decision. 
While PSP say they gave several warnings to Mr D about the loss of guarantees by 
transferring his pension, they didnt compare and contrast how each scheme would fair over 
time. The OPS provided tax free lump sum and a guaranteed income, but PSP didnt explore 
that or explain why the lower tax free sum available from the OPS was insufficient to satisfy 
Mr Ds objective. It follows that Im not satisfied that theres contemporary evidence to show 
it was in Mr Ds best interest to immediately take 25% of his fund as tax free cash when he 
had no real plans or need for it.  
It was PSPs role to probe and explore Mr Ds objectives to ensure they were achievable. 
It was recorded by PSP that Mr D also had an objective of receiving an annual income of 
£13,000 in retirement. But PSP didnt demonstrate how that would be achieved through a 
drawdown strategy or how taking the maximum tax free cash affected that. PSP also failed 
to analyse the likely longevity of the funds with Mr D having taken the maximum tax free 
cash available to demonstrate if it was likely Mr Ds funds would run out in retirement.
While PSP say Mr D had no need for an income, the fact find recorded that he was only 
working as and when work demanded and intended to retire in just over four years. So, its 
unclear where Mr Ds income would come from if it wasnt from his pension. PSP say future 
changes would have been required to meet his circumstances, but Mr D was only just over 
four years from retirement and PSP showed no analysis or explanation of how Mr D would 
be able to retire at age 65 with an income of £13,000. 
  
PSP also said Mr D wanted flexibility with his pension. But Looking at Mr Ds circumstances 
at the time, Im not persuaded he had a need for a flexible income or that PSP explored with 
him how his income would be achieved. PSP now say the recommendation to transfer was to access tax-free cash and provide a facility to recycle his pension. But the suitability report 
produced at the time clearly stated Mr D wanted a flexible approach to taking his retirement 
benefits. PSP didnt explain why Mr D had this objective or how it could be achieved. So, I 
dont think PSP could say its advice was suitable based on an objective of providing 
flexibility.
In their suitability report PSP wrote;
One of your concerns is the death benefits that your estate will receive. You have 
stated that it is your wish that your estate should benefit from the full value of your 
[OPS], they have stated that no lump sum would be paid.
As you are not married no pension would be paid 
But I think PSPs comments were misleading. Mr Ds OPS had valuable death benefits as 
the benefits were guaranteed for five years, so a lump sum of up to five years pension would 
be paid if he died within the first five years. A spouses pension was also included. 
Its possible Mr Ds partner may not have qualified for the spouses pension, as they werent 
married. But Mr D says his long-term partner was financially dependent on him. And the 
OPS allowed for a pension to be paid if there was no spouse but there was some other 
person whom the trustees agreed was financially dependent on Mr D at the date of his 
death. However, Ive seen no evidence that PSP investigated this further with the trustees. 
PSP say thats because Mr D had said he was single in the fact find and no financial 
dependants were recorded. But Mr D says he did have a long-term partner who was 
financially dependent on him. He also says they jointly owned the assets PSP recorded. 
PSP have questioned Mr Ds account and whether he did in fact have a dependent partner 
at the time. PSP say because Mr D had another annuity in payment on a single life basis, 
that financial dependency was not a consideration for him. But I dont think it does. Mr Ds 
other pensions were smaller than this one. And Ive not seen any evidence to say what 
options were available to Mr D with those pensions and why he chose a single life annuity.  
PSP later recorded Mr D as having a partner in the 2018 review. And although the fact find 
recorded Mr D as single, he wasnt married or in a civil relationship so that may have been 
correct. But on balance, I think it was likely Mr D did have a long term partner. While I 
havent seen enough evidence to say she was financially dependent on him, it was for PSP 
to ensure they knew their client and record an accurate and detailed fact find. Which I dont 
think they did. And knowing whether Mr D had a partner with joint financial commitments or 
dependencies was key to giving him suitable advice. 
PSP say that even if theyd checked with the OPS, the benefits wouldnt have been 
guaranteed and only assessed on Mr Ds death. But the suitability report needed to be 
balanced and look at the benefits and drawbacks of each of the schemes. And I dont think it 
was.  
PSP had recorded that the death benefits his estate would receive was a concern of Mr D. 
So, I think it would have been reasonable to explore further the options available to Mr D in 
the event of his death.     
Mr D was recorded as being in good health and the main purpose of the pension wasnt to 
provide death benefits. Mr D still needed to draw an income from it for many years to come. 
I dont think PSP have provided contemporary evidence that it was in Mr Ds best interest to 
transfer his pension based on an objective of providing death benefits. PSP also didnt 
assess the level of death benefits required by Mr D. And so, there may have been other options available to Mr D to provide for his family in the event of his death, for example 
through a life assurance policy. But this was never explained or explored by PSP. 
Overall, I dont think the improved death benefits of transferring outweighed the likely 
reduction in his overall income in retirement by transferring. Or that PSP has fulfilled its 
obligation to clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or 
opt-out is in the clients best interests. Because I dont think their recommendation 
particularly met any of Mr Ds other objectives over and above what he already had with his 
OPS. PSPs advice should have focused on Mr Ds needs in retirement. It was their role to 
assess and advised whether Mr Ds objectives were realistic and whether they could be 
fulfilled by remaining in the OPS. But I dont think they did. Instead they recommended he 
move into an expensive arrangement where the investment return required to match his 
existing benefits was high, and very likely unachievable.
For all of the reasons Ive explained, I dont think PSP gave Mr D suitable advice to transfer 
his OPS. I think, had PSP explained all of this to Mr D, he would have decided to stay in his 
OPS. I therefore hold PSP responsible for any losses Mr D incurred as a result of their 
unsuitable advice. 
Income recycling
Part of PSPs advice was to recycle Mr Ds drawdown income back into his pension in order 
to allow a further withdrawal of tax-free cash in later years. But Mr D didnt follow this advice 
and after one month he stopped recycling his income and instead kept the drawdown 
payments. I dont think PSP can be held responsible for Mr Ds action in going against their 
advice. However, as I dont think PSPs advice to transfer Mr Ds OPS was suitable it follows 
that any fees associated with the income recycling should be included in the redress 
calculation PSP makes. 
PSP say they shouldnt be held responsible for the eroded value of Mr Ds funds due to him 
not following their advice about income recycling. But Mr D wouldnt have been able to make 
such withdrawals had PSP given suitable advice. And the redress methodology set out 
below takes into account any withdrawals Mr D has made from the fund in the calculations. 
Mr D has now had the benefit of those withdrawals so, I think the method of redress is fair.
  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. PSP must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
PSP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. PSP should first check if Mr D is a tax payer. If he 
is, they should make a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss as it adequately 
reflects this. If Mr D can show his income is below the tax threshold, no such deduction 
should be made. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
PSP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PSP to 
pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In addition to this, PSP have caused Mr D to become concerned about his future income 
provisions from his pension which has undoubtably caused him considerable upset. So, PSP 
should pay Mr D £150 for the trouble and upset it has caused as a result of transferring his 
pension fund.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct PSP Wealth Management Ltd to 
compensate Mr D as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman