DRN-2867636
The complaint
Miss T has complained about Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguross decision to 
pay only part of a claim she made for storm damage under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T bought a buildings insurance policy with the insure Ocaso through a broker via an 
online comparison website.
In June 2020 Miss T made a claim for storm damage. Ocaso instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) 
to inspect Miss Ts property. The LA advised the claim should be accepted. However, he 
said that the building sum insured  the amount to rebuild the property  was much lower 
than the estimated amount. Miss T had given a sum insured of £200,000 when she bought 
the policy. The LA gave a sum insured of £421,000. 
In light of the LAs findings, Ocaso applied an average condition of the policy. This meant 
that it agreed to pay only a proportion of the costs to settle Miss Ts claim, as a percentage 
of the underinsured amount. So Ocaso said it would pay 47.5% of the claim costs. 
Miss T was very unhappy with Ocasos decision and so she contacted us. 
Our investigator obtained a copy of the question Miss T was asked on the comparison 
website. She asked Ocaso if Miss T had been redirected to their site  and if so, was the 
question the same. 
Ocaso didnt provide a reply, so in its absence the investigator form a view on the basis on 
the question asked on the comparison website  as this was the question Ocaso relied on to 
ensure Miss T didnt misrepresent any information. 
Our investigator didnt think the question was clear enough. She didnt think Ocaso had 
given Miss T enough information to help her answer the question accurately. 
So she recommended Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. She thought Ocaso should meet 
Miss Ts claim in full  and pay interest on the balance of the settlement at 8% simple 
interest a year. 
The investigator thought Ocaso should pay Miss T £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her. 
Ocaso didnt agree. It says there are numerous methods of calculating the correct rebuild 
costs of a property and free online tools available to help a customer if they are unsure.
So Ocaso wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider a complaint about underinsurance , we look at whether the question asks 
for the specific information an insurer wants to know - and also at how helpful it is for the 
consumer:
Ocaso hasnt provided anything to dispute the assumption the investigator made that it relied 
on the question asked on the comparison website. So this is the question Ive considered in 
my decision.
Miss T was asked:
What would it cost to rebuild your house? 
Guidance next to the question read: Exclude the value of your land. This is why the rebuild 
cost is typically less than the market value.
Additional guidance read: 
How can I find out? Your current home insurance policy documents may indicate the 
rebuild cost, as will a surveyors report or mortgage valuation report form the last two 
years.
Miss T said she had lived at the property for 16 years. Based on the guidance, she 
estimated the rebuild cost to be the market value of her home at £200,000.
The guidance continued:
Effect on your quote  Take care to estimate the rebuild cost correctly so that you 
are adequately covered and you do not pay too much on your premium. If you made 
a claim and your rebuild cost was too low, your provider may not settle the claim in 
full.
We take into account that consumers arent experienced in calculating such costs unless 
they happen to have knowledge in this area. So it can be difficult for them to estimate the 
cost of rebuilding a property. We therefore think its only fair that an insurer should provide 
detailed information to help a non-expert calculate such an amount. 
From the information provided, I dont think Ocaso did this. It didnt point Miss T in the right 
direction to help her reach an accurate figure  for example; by referring to the Building Cost 
Information Service (BCIS) calculator  or other rebuild calculators. It may well be common 
knowledge to Ocaso, but it isnt enough for an insurer to say that such information is out 
there without giving proper guidance to help customers. 
The LA used a formula based on a cost per square metre of Miss Ts property, and took into 
consideration its age and structure. They came to a building sum insured of £421,000, which 
was more than double the amount Miss T had estimated. 
I dont know how Miss T could have known this is what Ocaso was looking for when it asked 
her to calculate the building sum insured. And I can reasonably understand why Miss T gave 
the sum insured of £200,000, based on the guidance by Ocaso that the rebuild cost is 
typically less than the market value. 
I dont disagree with Ocaso that it explained what would happen if the rebuild cost was 
incorrect. But I dont think Ocaso has shown that it was fair to Miss T as it didnt provide 
sufficient information to help her to meet their requirements in order to answer the key 
question. This means Im upholding Miss Ts complaint and I think Ocaso should meet Miss Ts claim 
in full. And I think it should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience its decision 
caused her. I think Miss T was understandably worried at the prospect of having to find 
remaining funds to have the damage repaired. My remedies are set out below and in line 
with the investigators recommendations. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to meet Miss Ts claim for storm damage in 
full. If it settles by way of a cash settlement, it should pay interest on the amount  or 
difference if its already paid a partial amount  at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 
the date of the claim to the date it pays Miss T.
It should pay Miss T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Ocasos decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman