DRN-2755292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their claim under their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs T travelled abroad in June 2020, and unfortunately fell ill shortly after arriving at her 
destination. She required medical treatment and later made a claim against the travel 
insurance policy she and her husband hold jointly, with UKI. 
UKI declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim for medical expenses, and said this was because Mrs T 
travelled against Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy state the following within the general exclusions section:
We do not cover you for travel to areas where the Foreign & Commonwealth Office has 
advised against all travel. If you are not sure whether there is a travel warning for your 
destination, or you think you may need to cancel or cut short your trip because of a 
developing situation, please check with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office at 
gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.. 
And at the time Mrs T travelled, the FCO was advising against all but essential international 
travel to her destination country. 
Mr and Mrs T said they didnt think the FCO advice against travel applied to Mrs T, as it 
refers to British Citizens, and Mrs T is a foreign national who has been living in the UK for 
many years. And they made a complaint to UKI.
UKI said it disagreed the FCO advice didnt apply to Mrs T. It said her policy required her to 
be living in the UK for at least six months of the year, and expected a UK resident to adhere 
to UK laws and regulations, including FCO advice, regardless of nationality. And it 
maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Unhappy with the response from UKI, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. 
They said the trip Mrs T made was essential, as she was visiting her elderly parents abroad, 
one of whom had a health condition.
An investigator here looked into what had happened, and said she didnt think UKI had acted 
unfairly in requiring Mrs T to follow FCO travel advice. And she didnt think Mrs Ts trip was 
essential, based on the information she had originally provided about the claim to UKI. 
UKI accepted the investigators view. However Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to decide. Mr and 
Mrs T said they felt Mrs T was being discriminated against based on her race and gender. 
They reiterated that Mrs T was not subject to the FCO guidance as she wasnt a British 
citizen, so the issue of whether shed travelled for essential purposes wasnt relevant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say UKI has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint is one which should be upheld. And I say this for 
the following reasons.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy states that no cover is provided for travel to areas where the 
FCO has advised against this. And Mrs T travelled to one of those areas, whilst FCO 
advice against travel was in force. 
UKI has said Mrs T wasnt covered by her policy due to her travelling against the 
advice of the FCO. And although she may not be a British Citizen, Im satisfied this 
policy term still reasonably applies to her, as she lives in the UK and holds a travel 
insurance policy which is only available to UK residents. Ive considered this very 
carefully together with what Mr and Mrs T have said about the FCO advice not 
applying as Mrs T is a foreign national. And I think the policy is quite clear in that it 
doesnt provide cover when the FCO has advised against travel, as it did in this case. 
The policy terms make no exception in regard to nationality, and as Ive said, the 
policy is only available to UK residents.   Because of this, Im persuaded that UKIs 
expectation that Mrs T should comply with UK government advice is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And that its decision to turn down Mrs 
Ts claim due to her travelling at a time when the FCO had advised against this, was 
not unfair. 
The FCO advised against non-essential international travel. And Mr and Mrs T have 
said what is essential and what is non-essential is not defined. I agree that this isnt 
defined within the FCOs guidance. So, Ive looked at the reasons Mrs T gave to UKI 
when making her claim, and have considered whether I think UKI has acted 
reasonably. Mrs T originally said she travelled to visit her family abroad.  Whilst I 
appreciate why Mrs T would have wanted to travel, I dont think its unreasonable that 
UKI didnt deem this trip to have been essential based on this information. Im aware 
Mr and Mrs T later provided some further detail about the health of one of Mrs Ts 
parents who was having problems with her mobility. But, in any event, based on the 
information provided I still dont think it could reasonably be considered an essential 
reason to travel. For example, theres no suggestion that there was a medical 
emergency or that Mrs Ts parents needed urgent care and support.  
Mr and Mrs T have said that UKI shouldnt be allowed to discriminate against Mrs T 
because of her gender and nationality. UKI has said it doesnt discriminate and the 
policy wording is fairly applied to all its policyholders. When considering whether UKI 
has acted fairly and reasonably, Im required to consider a number of things including 
relevant law and regulations. And as its relevant to the concerns Mr and Mrs T have 
raised, Ive taken into account the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA). But its not for our 
Service to make any finding about whether UKI has breached the EqA  thats the 
role of the courts. Ive seen nothing to say that a man in comparable circumstances 
to Mrs T wouldve had a claim accepted by UKI. Further, Im not persuaded that her 
nationality played any part in UKIs decision to decline the claim on the basis that it 
did. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against U K Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman