DRN-4397657
The complaint
Mr A complains that despite asking Equifax Limited to delete his data and stop marketing 
correspondence it failed to do so.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
At the beginning of this year, Mr A asked Equifax to delete his account and information. On 
17 February 2023 Equifax emailed Mr A and said it would commence deletion of his 
membership information including his security questions and credit card details. Equifax also 
said it would remove Mr As personal data for marketing purposes.
On 25 April 2023 Mr A received an email from Equifax giving information about 
improvements to his Equifax Alerts. The email added it would send more information about 
credit alert notifications as well as other features Equifax had removed.
Mr A has told us he called Equifax on many occasions to complain and try and remove his 
data. Mr A complained that Equifax had sent him a marketing email, despite agreeing to 
delete his details. Equifax didnt issue a final response but advised Mr A could refer the 
matter to this service.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As complaint. In its submission, Equifax said the 
email it sent Mr A wasnt marketing but was actually information about improvements to its 
service. Equifax advised it had deleted Mr As email address from its systems to ensure no 
more emails of that nature were sent. The investigator didnt ask Equifax to take further 
action. Mr A asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Equifax told us its email dated 25 April 2023 isnt considered marketing so was sent to Mr A 
to notify him about improvements to its services. Whilst Equifax may not have categorised 
the email as marketing, in February 2023 Mr A asked it to delete his account and 
information. Equifax promised to do that and stop future correspondence. Given Mr A had 
closed his account and asked for his data to be removed, I can understand why he was 
annoyed to receive an email about Equifaxs services, whether it was marketing or for 
information purposes. Equifax has since told us its removed Mr As email address from 
systems now so no more emails should be sent. But I think its reasonable to say thats a 
step it couldve taken back in February 2023. Im not persuaded it was reasonable for 
Equifax to continue to correspond with Mr A about services he had already withdrawn from.
 
Equifax hasnt been able to provide a contact log. But Mr A has provided details of the calls 
he made to Equifax and time taken. I understand Mr A feels Equifax should compensate him 
for lost income. But this is a private matter and I wouldnt expect Equifax to pay 
compensation on that basis. But I do agree that Equifax has caused an unreasonable level 
of inconvenience to Mr A as hes had to get back in touch on various occasion to try and 
understand why it was continuing to contact him with information about its services. And 
despite raising a complaint, no answer was given to Mr A by Equifax explaining why it had 
continued to email him. Im satisfied that added to Mr As confusion and overall feeling of 
dissatisfaction with the contact he received from Equifax.
Based on the available information, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and direct Equifax to 
pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, as set out above.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr A and confirmed he had nothing further 
to add. Equifax responded and confirmed it was willing to proceed in line with the settlement 
noted in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my final decision. I still think Mr As complaint should be upheld, 
for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Equifax Limited to pay him £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman