DRN-2362045
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, were wrong to reject a 
claim he made to them under the chargeback rules and under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under chargeback or section 75. I take that into 
account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to 
reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme operator, MasterCard in this instance, sets strict rules under which claims can 
be made and there would need to be a reasonable prospect of success for Virgin Money to 
be able to recover Mr Ss money without challenge. 
Here, as Mr S had received the accommodation he booked, I think there was a strong 
chance the hotel would have challenged a chargeback successfully and I dont therefore 
think Virgin Money were wrong not to raise the request.
section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. Whilst I can see Virgin Money initially disputed this I am satisfied that Mr S paid 
the hotel directly for the accommodation he received and that there is no break in the chain 
between the debtor (Mr S), the creditor (Virgin Money) and the supplier (the hotel). 
Virgin Money should therefore have considered Mr Ss section 75 claim that there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel. 
But Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence here to suggest there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation
breach of contract
Having considered the photographs Mr S has provided Im not persuaded the hotel was of 
unsatisfactory quality and that the hotel had therefore breached its contract with Mr S. 
This was at best a two-star hotel and I think a reasonable person would expect the general 
state of repair to be lower than in the majority of hotels. The photographs evidence that there 
were some things that needed attention i.e. the shower and the headboard, but I dont think 
they demonstrate that the hotel was below the standard a reasonable person would expect 
of a hotel of this rating.
Id expect the hotel to keep Mr S safe. But, whilst I understand there was some renovation in 
progress, Ive not seen evidence that the hotel was unsafe as a result.
Id also expect the hotel to keep Mr S comfortable and that would include heating the 
building. Mr S has suggested the heating was turned off between 2am and 6am but I think 
the hotel would reasonably expect their customers to be asleep at that point. I dont think its 
unreasonable for a hotel of this rating to turn off the heating at some stage in the early hours. 
Mr S booked three nights accommodation and completed that stay. Im not persuaded the 
hotel breached the contract they had with him.
misrepresentation
Mr S says the hotel was not as advertised. If it was, and if that misrepresentation induced 
him to stay when he would not otherwise have done so, then I might suggest Virgin Money 
take some action.
Unfortunately, its not been possible to review how the hotel advertised the accommodation 
and to take a view about whether there was any misrepresentation, as the hotel has been 
taken over and the advert isnt available.
I dont think it was necessary for the hotel to tell Mr S about the renovation work that it 
planned. I think its fair to suggest many hotels will have refurbishment work carried out 
whilst customers are present. 
On balance, I am not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to suggest Virgin Money need to take any further action. They provided £50 to compensate Mr S for the delays that 
occurred in their processing of his claim and I think that was reasonable but Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman