DRN-3649776
The complaint
Ms S complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) were wrong to report a default to the 
credit reference agencies. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Klarna, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms S didnt receive her bike until 29 June 2020. Klarna told Ms S that payments would be 
taken on the 5th of every month. So, I think the first payment was therefore due on 5 July 
2020, but itd already been taken by Klarna, too early, on 23 June 2020.
Ms S raised concerns about the payment being taken too early and payments were 
suspended and reactivated in August. Klarna confirmed the reactivation to Ms S on 17 
August 2020 and they took a payment on 21 August that would have covered the payment 
due for that month. They also took another payment on 28 August 2020. I think that would 
have covered the instalment due on 5 September 2020.
When Ms S received further emails, one explaining a further payment was due on 5 
September 2020 and another explaining that a payment would be taken on 8 September 
2020 I can understand her confusion. The payment on the 28 August was unexpected and 
now it seemed a further two payments would be debited. I can understand that in those 
circumstances she would have wanted to cancel her direct debit to protect herself as it 
appeared that Klarna were planning to take four payments from her account within three 
weeks. 
Ms S therefore didnt make a payment in September 2020, but I dont think one was due as it 
had been collected on 28 August 2020.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments a default may be registered. Klarna have explained that 
they have recorded the date of default on Ms Ss credit file as 24 November 2020. 
Ms S didnt make the payments which were due on 5 October and 5 November 2020, so I 
dont think its fair for Klarna to suggest she was three months in arrears at the point they 
defaulted the account, she was at worst two months behind. I therefore dont think Klarna. 
were fair to register a default.
Klarna do have a responsibility to report accurate information about a consumers credit 
performance. They may therefore consider theres a need to report missed payments 
towards Ms Ss credit file for October and November 2020, but I dont think that would be 
reasonable. The payment due on 5 November 2020 was made on 26 November when Ms S 
also paid the October instalment. I think it would be reasonable to suggest payments were 
delayed because Ms S was confused about what was due and when and that confusion 
stemmed from the first payment on this contract being taken too early. I think it would 
therefore be unreasonable to report any missed payments or a default on this account as I 
dont think it would be a fair reflection of Ms Ss financial performance.
Putting things right
Klarna should remove the default and any missed payment markers they may have reported 
to Ms Ss credit file in relation to these issues. I understand Klarna have offered to refund the 
instalment paid in June 2020 and I think thats reasonable compensation for the issues Ms S 
experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Klarna Bank AB (publ) to 
remove the default and any missed payment markers they may have reported to Ms Ss 
credit file in relation to these issues and to refund the first instalment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman