DRN-2443777
The complaint
Ms M complains that Vitality Health Insurance Limited declined her private health insurance 
claim.
What happened
Ms M took out private health insurance, insured by Vitality, on 13 September 2018. The 
policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis. That meant the policy didnt cover treatment 
of any medical condition or related condition for which Ms M:
received medical treatment for,
had symptoms of,
asked advice on, or
was aware existed
in the five years before the policy started unless she hadnt consulted anyone in a medical 
capacity, received medical treatment or taken medication for the condition or any related 
conditions for two continuous years from the start of the policy.
In May 2019 Ms M dislocated her left shoulder while putting up a curtain pole. She managed 
to put back the dislocation but she continued to be in pain and had private surgery on her 
shoulder. She claimed for the treatment cost under her policy.
Vitality declined the claim. It said Ms Ms medical records showed she had treatment for 
hypermobility/unstable joints in the five years before the policy started and the claim 
treatment was related to the medical condition. As her claim was within two years of the 
policy starting she wasnt covered.
Ms M complained to us. She said shed had hypermobile joints since 2010 but never had 
treatment to her left shoulder and the injury she claimed for wasnt related to her 
hypermobility. She sent a letter from her surgeon which she said supported that she required 
surgery due to the specific incident that caused the injury. She wants Vitality to pay for her 
treatment which cost about £6,400.
Our investigator said Vitality fairly declined the claim on the medical evidence it had. But as 
Vitality hadnt seen the surgeons letter that Ms M submitted with her complaint to us it 
should reassess the claim considering the new medical evidence.
Vitality reassessed the claim and didnt change its mind. It didnt dispute the surgery was to 
repair the tear of the labarum but it said the surgeons letter showed the tear was as a result 
of the dislocation which related to Ms Ms pre-existing condition of hypermobility/unstable 
joints.
Ms M disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In brief she said:
the surgeons letter stated her injury was from an accident
when she took out the policy shed not been diagnosed with hypermobile joints and 
still hasnt had that medical diagnosis so Vitality couldnt say she had the condition
she declared all pre-existing injuries and surgery when she took out the policy so she 
thought the two years didnt apply to this injury. She wouldnt have taken a policy 
without her left side being covered, as she had previous surgery on her right side.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Vitality fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
Ms Ms GP records, the GPs referral letter and the surgeons letter say Ms Ms had a history 
of hypermobility/instability in her joints and that she had to give up playing particular sports 
about nine years ago due to her hypermobile joints. So I think Vitality fairly understood that 
Ms M has that medical condition, and was aware that she had it, within the five years before 
she took out the policy.
The GPs referral letter says while putting up a curtain pole Ms Ms left shoulder fully 
dislocated and she managed to reduce her shoulder. The letter details Ms Ms history of the 
condition and says she had surgery on her right shoulder due to the condition and had knee 
surgery.
The discharge summary following Ms Ms July 2019 surgery stated arthroscopic shoulder 
stabilisation left side and the diagnosis was instability to left shoulder.
Although Ms M hadnt had treatment to her left shoulder previously the policy doesnt cover 
medical conditions or related conditions that fall within the moratorium period. The policy 
defines related conditions as:
Any symptom, disease, illness or injury which reasonable medical opinion considers 
to be associated with another symptom, disease, illness or injury. It may also be 
known as an underlying cause and/or a condition arising therefrom.
On the above medical evidence I think Vitality reasonably understood that the claimed injury 
treatment was related to Ms Ms hypermobility/unstable joints and fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim.
I think the surgeons letter also shows the claim treatment is related to Ms Ms pre-existing 
condition. It says that Ms M had:
a transient dislocation of (her) shoulder while putting up a heavy curtain pole and 
as a result sustained an injury to the shoulder with a tear of the labarumthere is a 
background of hypermobility in the shoulders but this current surgery was to repair 
clear damage that occurred from the specific incident.
Vitality says that as the letter states the tear to the labarum was as a result of the 
dislocation the injury related to Ms Ms pre-existing condition of hypermobility/unstable joints. 
I think thats a reasonable conclusion for Vitality to make.
Vitalitys medical team also notes that it would be unlikely that putting up a curtain pole would cause such a shoulder dislocation to someone who had didnt have problems with 
joint health.
Given the overall medical evidence I think its reasonable for Vitality to understand that 
Ms Ms injury was related to her hypermobility/unstable joints and the underlying reason for 
the damage. It fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
Ms M says she declared her medical conditions when she took out the policy. But this policy 
doesnt rely on a consumers declaration of medical history. The moratorium terms are as 
Ive detailed above and clear. Ms M had hypermobility/unstable joints within the five years 
before the policy started and she need treatment for an injury related to the condition within 
two years of the policy starting. That means there was no cover for the claim.
Ms Ms previously said shes unhappy with Vitalitys service in that it took too long to assess 
her claim. Shes not mentioned the issue in her complaint form. But for the avoidance of 
doubt Im satisfied that Vitality didnt cause any necessary substantive delay in looking into 
the claim. Vitality reasonably wanted information about Ms Ms medical history and had to 
wait to get the information from the GP practice.
Responses to my provisional decision
Vitality had no additional points to make. Ms M said she disagreed with the provisional 
decision but had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have no further evidence for me to consider Ive no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint. Vitality fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman