DRN-2273288
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) regarding the exchange rate 
applied to a payment into their account. They feel that the rate applied was unfair and that it 
cost them around £600. They want to be compensated for this cost and for their 
inconvenience. 
What happened
In early July 2020, Mr B and Miss P made a transfer from their Italian bank account, into 
their HSBC account, in order to facilitate a purchase. 
The amount transferred was €31,000. 
When Mr B and Miss P checked their HSBC account, they saw that the amount credited to 
their account was £27,399.24. This was less than they expected by around £600. 
Mr B and Miss P complained to HSBC. HSBC responded, not upholding their complaint but 
ultimately offering a goodwill gesture of £50. 
Mr B and Miss P were not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that HSBCs terms and conditions make clear that electronic payments into an account 
will be converted to pounds sterling before being deposited, using the HSBC Exchange Rate 
applicable at the time, and that customers need to contact HSBC, either in branch or through 
telephone banking to check current exchange rates. He therefore considered that HSBC had 
acted reasonably, and he did not recommend HSBC do anything further. 
Mr B and Miss P did not accept this view. They felt that at they relevant time it was not 
possible to visit a branch, due to the pandemic, and that waiting times on the telephone 
banking service made it impractical to call before carrying out their transaction. They felt that 
HSBC could put upfront information on their website or via internet banking. 
They therefore wanted an ombudsman decision. 
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B and Miss Ps surprise and disappointment at the rate applied. They have 
set out that other institutions applied lower exchange rates at the relevant time, and they 
think that more could be done by HSBC to ensure transparency over rates. 
As my colleague explained, it is not the role of this organisation to dictate the approach 
financial businesses take, or what policies or exchange rates should be applied. Our role is 
to consider individual situations and whether a consumer has been treated fairly and 
reasonably by the business applying its policies. 
I have reviewed the published terms and conditions for HSBCs accounts at the relevant time 
and these make clear that money paid into HSBC UK accounts in a foreign currency will be 
converted into pounds sterling before being credited to the account. It is also made plain that 
the rate that will be applied to the conversion is the HSBC Exchange Rate. 
HSBC does not publish this rate as it fluctuates throughout the day and accurate information 
on the rate can only be obtained at the point when the payment is credited. An indication of 
the current rates can be given on request, but this is not a guaranteed rate and remains 
subject to change. 
The terms deal with this by advising customers to contact us in branch or through telephone 
banking to obtain current exchange rates. 
Mr B and Miss P did not try to find out the current rates by contacting HSBC. They have 
explained that they expected that waiting times were high due to the pandemic and that new 
working processes were in operation. I understand this but agree with my colleague that the 
option was there if Mr B and Miss P wanted to check the rates before carrying out the 
transaction. 
That they did not do so is not HSBCs fault and I do not think it would be fair to require HSBC 
to apply a different rate because Mr B and Miss P were not satisfied with the rate after their 
transaction. 
For these reasons, I agree with the view of the investigator and do not uphold this complaint. 
I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr B and Miss P, but I hope it clearly explains 
my reasons for reaching this view. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr B and Miss Ps complaint and so not ask 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman