DRN-3712670
The complaint
Mr K complains Experian Limited incorrectly defaulted an account he held with a catalogue 
company.
What happened
Mr M became aware a default had been applied for the account with the catalogue company, 
who Ill refer to as S. He complained to them, and they said theyd not loaded a default, it 
was Experian who had incorrectly loaded a default. Mr M complained to them.
In June 2021 Experian said it seems a default was added by S for a balance of £142 
showing as registered on 14 July 2017. Experian said they looked at this further, and it 
showed S had made a manual adjustment to the account on 25 August 2021 removing the 
default. They said this could be seen on the most recent credit report on 5 September 2021.
In a later response, Experian added the previous update by S to the account was on 
10 November 2019 when the account was updated to show the balance as £0 to show the 
default was satisfied. They said they keep records of defaults for six years.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, saying both parties were blaming each other, so asked our 
service to look into things. In doing so, he provided a copy of the outcome of a complaint he 
made to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the UKs independent 
authority on information rights and data privacy for individuals. They said:
In a letter sent to you on 1 September 2021, S confirmed that the inaccurate information 
recorded on your credit report was caused by Experian. We believe this to be true. Indeed, 
the fact that the equivalent data held by the other two credit reference agencies appears to 
be accurate stands as strong evidence that this issue is with Experian rather than S 
Therefore, should you wish to take this specific issue any further, you would have to raise it 
directly with Experian. 
Unhappy with this Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
ultimately upheld the complaint awarding £150. He felt the evidence suggested Experian had 
misinterpreted the information given to them by S and theyd recorded a default incorrectly.
Mr M didnt agree with this, in summary he initially said:
The assessment reads as though the default only impacted him for two months  
June to August 2021  when actually it was recorded in October 2019 and removed 
August / September 2021 so it impacted him for a period of two years.
He took out car finance in February 2021 when the default was present so thinks its 
fair to assume hed have been classed as high risk with higher interest rates charged.
While he would have expected his credit file to be poor post 2017 due to previous 
issues, Experian then decimated his credit file further by applying the default 
between 2019 and 2021 which would have seriously hindered his ability to get future 
credit at reasonable interest rates.
Overall he didnt think £150 was fair, and thought it should be more.
Mr M also raised some points about the way S had handled his account and their actions. 
Our Investigator responded to Mr Ms points, but still felt £150 was fair. 
Experian replied, they also didnt agree with the £150 and in summary said:
The way S sends their files through means they dont store archived copies of the 
files. 
They could see there was no longer any record of a default on the account, as S had 
carried out a manual adjustment on 25 August 2021 (which then showed in 
September 2021s update the default had been removed). They said it was originally 
showing as a satisfied default with a close date and default date of 13 July 2017 but 
updated the record to remove the default date and original default balance  with the 
account status now showing as settled.
This means S must have incorrectly reported this person as a default account back in 
2019, as the last update was 10 November 2019 and then acknowledged their error 
and manually updated it.
In his last responses Mr M says when closing his account and reporting the closure to the 
credit reference agencies, certain information has slipped through the net  and he says this 
has resulted in Experian displaying a default against him. He says this was recorded from 
13 July 2017, when S were also writing off his account, and says its ironic these dates align 
perfectly. Mr M now says Experian arent at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain this decision only deals with Experians actions based on the 
evidence provided. Although its clear Ss actions are important in reaching a fair outcome 
against Experian, I wont be commenting on them or making any finding against S.
I also think its important to explain Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint  which is 
that a default has been recorded incorrectly. I understand Mr M now believes this was down 
to S. But hes asked us to consider a complaint against Experian, so weve done that.
There has been a lot of detail provided by all parties in this complaint about what happened 
and when. But, crucially, I cant ever see that Mr Ms account with S was defaulted. So, any 
default being recorded with Experian has been done so incorrectly.
Next, I need to look at the evidence provided by the various parties to determine whether 
this was or wasnt an error by Experian. And, where information is incomplete or 
contradictory, as some of it is here, then I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, 
taking into account the information I do have. 
Having been through Ss evidence theyve not provided anything to show theyve asked 
Experian to register a default. Experian have explained theyre unable to provide evidence of 
what they received from S that led to them recording the default  although they have 
speculated about how this came about.
Immediately then, Experian dont have any evidence that supports their position. Added to 
this I cant ignore that the other two credit reference agencies (CRAs) do report this account, 
but didnt record a default against Mr Ms account for S. So, if S had mistakenly asked for a default to be recorded, Id logically expect the default to show on the accounts with the other 
CRAs as well  but it doesnt. 
Finally, the ICO have said they believe Experian have made an error  for the same reasons 
Ive mentioned above about the other two CRAs not reporting a default.
Ive noted Experians point about the records and the update on 25 August 2021 means S 
incorrectly reported Mr Ms status. While I agree thats one interpretation, I dont think its the 
only interpretation. I think its equally possible, based on the information provided and 
bearing in mind there is nothing to say S ever told Experian to default the account, they were 
doing general updates  and the 25 August 2021 update was because Mr M had contacted 
S about the incorrect information reported by Experian. 
Given the time thats passed and the records available I simply dont have categoric proof of 
what happened, when it happened and so on. But, on balance I think its more likely than not 
Experian have made an error here leading to the default being applied to Mr Ms account. 
There is no evidence S ever asked them to record a default, the other CRAs never did, and 
Experian cant prove how the default came to be recorded.
With that in mind, I now need to decide what I think a fair way to put the matter right is.
Our Investigator explained to Mr M on several occasions in order for our service to award 
financial loss we need to be satisfied thats occurred. In this context, Mr M has said that as a 
result of the default its fair to say the interest rate on his car finance will have been higher  
and hed have been denied opportunities for fair credit as a result of the incorrect default as 
well.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ms evidence, but Ive not been persuaded by it. All lending 
applications are affected by a multitude of factors, of which someones lending history is just 
one factor taken into account. Mr M hasnt provided, when asked, clear evidence that the 
sole or primary reason his car finance interest rates may have been higher is because of the 
default being incorrectly applied. Ive also not seen any evidence of applications Mr M may 
have attempted being turned down due to the incorrect default.
So, based on the evidence provided, I dont award any financial loss Mr M is claiming for. 
But, I do think some compensation is fair.
Our Investigator awarded £150 compensation  Mr M said this wasnt even close to enough 
for the impact of a default being on his credit file for two years.
I do understand what Mr M is saying. But, while the existence of a default could have led to 
higher costs for him, Ive seen no evidence of that as Ive explained above.
Instead, I have to separate out the potential impact on Mr Ms finances, to the frustration and 
inconvenience hes experienced from when he knew about the default being applied in 
June 2021. I can see he was told by Experian it wasnt their fault, when actually Ive decided 
it was. I think the existence of the default, and the chasing around Mr M has had to do to get 
matters resolved is disappointing. But, overall, I think the £150 our Investigator awarded is 
fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Experian Limited to pay Mr M £150 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman