DRN-2442100
The complaint
 Mrs Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank PLC. 
In short, the CMC says:
Mrs B was advised to invest too much money. 
The recommendation exposed too much of her money to risk.
It was inappropriate for her to invest in a medium to long term risk-based investment 
as she didnt have a suitable or sustainable cash reserve. 
She was advised to take too much risk for a first-time investor. 
What happened
In 2000, Mrs B was advised to invest £50,000 into the Barclays Personal Investment 
Management Services (PIMS) portfolio, referred to as the investment.
The investment was made up of:
58% holdings in UK equities; 
19% in International equities; 
20% in fixed interest; and 
3% in liquidity. 
The following was recorded in respect of Mrs B:
She was in her early 50s, divorced and cohabiting. 
She had no dependents. 
Shed recently received a divorce settlement so had £130,000 in savings available.  
Shed done the same job for almost 25 years and planned to retire in three years. 
She had an income of £750 a month, with a net monthly disposable income of £350.
She planned to spend £20,000 on home improvements. 
She retained £60,000 in cash to purchase a house for investment purposes. 
I note Mrs B was looking to invest in a low risk investment for capital growth, over a term of 
five years. I also note it was recorded that Mrs B was a first-time investor with a low attitude 
to risk.  
In 2006, Mrs B surrendered the plan  after six years  and received £49,409. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that the recommendation was 
suitable. However, it offered Mrs B £250 compensation for the delays in dealing with her 
complaint.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mrs B was a first-time investor who wanted to invest in a low-risk product, so the 
recommendation to invest in the PIMS was unsuitable. 
Although she had a small net monthly disposable income, she planned to retire in 
three years so didnt have a real capacity for loss. 
Even though Barclays concedes that the investment held a high equity content for a 
low risk investor, she disagrees that the £50,000 investment was suitable for Mrs B, 
or that it was in line with her objectives, given her liquid cash reserve.  
Mrs B, and not Barclays, chose to retain £60,000 in cash. Barclays cant say that was 
part of their advice. Whether or not she went onto purchase a property isnt relevant. 
The investment held over 70% in equities, which exposed her money to more risk 
than she was willing to take. 
Mrs Bs wanted to achieve better capital growth than a bank/building society account, 
but the investment wasnt in line with her objectives.
Barclays disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
£60,000 was Mrs Bs preferred cash reserve, but its not sure why this is relevant. 
The adviser wouldve made clear the minimum cash reserve and Mrs B chose to 
keep a higher amount.  
This  a consideration of the pre and post sales circumstances  forms a part of the 
advice that needs to be taken into account. So, the £60,000 should be considered by 
our service as forming part of the advice. 
Mrs B had no plans to use the £60,000, apart from a vague idea of potentially 
purchasing an investment property in the future. 
The overall position, when taking into account the net disposable income and cash 
reserves, is much healthier and suitable for a low risk investor. 
Although Mrs B planned to retire within three years, the recommendation was still 
suitable as she had a healthy net disposable income and her partner contributed to 
expenses. 
Mrs B refused to discuss her retirement plans which suggests she was happy with 
the recommendation, which would take her into retirement if kept for five years. 
As she made no withdrawals, or early surrender, this would suggest that she didnt 
need the money and the recommendation was suitable.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Barclays says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation is suitable. Theres no dispute that Mrs B wanted to invest in a low risk portfolio with the objective of 
achieving better capital returns than was available with a bank or building society 
deposit/savings account. 
I note that she was an inexperienced first-time investor, but there was nothing there to 
suggest that she wasnt willing to take a small risk with her money in order to achieve better 
returns. However, in the circumstances and on balance, I dont think investing in a product 
with well over 70% invested in equites was suitable for Mrs B. 
Despite what Barclays says, Im not persuaded that the investment didnt expose her to any 
more risk than she was willing to take or that it was in line with her objective. 
I appreciate Barclays says that taking into account Mrs Bs £60,000 liquid cash reserve, the 
recommendation was suitable for a low risk investor, but Im not persuaded that this rationale 
applies to Mrs B. 
I dont think Barclays explained to Mrs B the significance of her £60,000 cash reserve, or 
indeed any changes to it, so I dont think Mrs B appreciated the importance of it. 
Whilst I appreciate it was Mrs B that chose this amount, rather than Barclays, I also note that 
the money was earmarked for purchasing a house for investment purposes and I dont think 
Barclays took sufficient note of this. Despite Barclays saying that it was a vague idea of 
potentially purchasing an investment property in the future, Im not persuaded that it was. At 
the time, there was nothing to suggest that Mrs B wouldnt go on to purchase a property 
having kept a large sum of money aside for this purpose.  
In my opinion, there was a likelihood that Mrs Bs money would be exposed to more than a 
low risk and I dont think Barclays took account of that. Any changes to the cash reserve was 
likely to upset the balance that Barclays relies upon to justify the recommendation  in 
respect of which it concedes that it held a high equity content for a low risk investor.  
So, I dont think it was right for Barclays to take into account this cash reserve to justify the 
recommendation of a product that was comprised of well over 70% equities. I dont this was 
reasonable given her low attitude to risk. 
Even if Mrs B could afford to make up for any capital losses  I dont think she necessarily 
could, given that she wished to retire within three years  this doesnt make unsuitable 
advice suitable. 
 
Putting things right
 So, in addition to paying £250 compensation for the delays  which I think is fair and 
reasonable  Barclays should do the following:
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs B 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should you do? To compensate Mrs B fairly you should:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
You should also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs B in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Barclays 
Personal 
Investment 
Manageme
nt 
Services(PI
MS) 
portfolio 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those 
rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean that Mrs B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking 
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed 
rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, 
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I think Barclays Bank UK PLC should calculate and pay Mrs B redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman