DRN-3549311
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Haven Insurance Company Limited handled his car insurance
claim.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his car insurance policy after an incident left it damaged in April 2021.
Haven took the claim forward and had Mr As car examined by one of its engineers. The
engineer reported that, in addition to the damage, Mr As car wasnt starting and pointed to
the battery as being the cause. The engineer concluded that the problem with the battery
wasnt caused by the incident.
At first, Haven offered to repair the battery at Mr As cost but, after he agreed, the insurer
changed its mind  saying it had since discovered the battery had been modified and was an
after-market version, so it couldnt arrange to fix it. Haven told Mr A that it wouldnt begin its
repair work until he resolved the problem with the battery and shortly after, the insurer
returned the car to him.
After Mr A complained, Haven responded reiterating its stance. It says that the issue with
Mr As car battery was coincidental and wasnt caused by the incident that led to the claim.
The insurer said that it wouldnt consider repairing the car until Mr A resolves the problem
with the battery. It also offered to review its decision on the basis that Mr A provides a report
from an independent diagnosis of the problem.
Remaining unhappy, Mr A asked this service to step in. One of our investigators decided that
Haven had acted fairly when it decided not to repair the battery and when it declined to begin
the overall repairs to the car. The investigator felt that Haven couldve communicated better
with Mr A and asked it to pay him compensation.
Although Haven accepted the investigators recommendation, Mr A referred to an
independent inspection of his car, which he says he sent to Haven but didnt receive a reply. 
The investigator queried this with Haven, who later suggested that Mr A take his car to be
assessed by a garage approved by the manufacturer and agreed to cover the costs. Mr A
attempted this on two occasions but was turned away because his car is imported. Our
investigator suggested the insurer arrange the further diagnosis on Mr As behalf, but it was
unable to accommodate this request.
The complaint remains unresolved, so it has been passed to me for a final review.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional decision where I said the following:
Im planning to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. This matter has been ongoing for 
over a year now and a lot has happened in that time. For ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to 
the issues that are relevant to my decision. The parties can be reassured that, even if I 
havent specifically referred to certain facts or information, Ive taken everything into account.
Did Haven handle the claim fairly?
Mr A says his car was driven in to by a third party whilst left parked and he says the car was
in working order before the incident. The terms of the policy say that Mr As car is covered
for loss or damage caused by an accident. After its initial inspection, Haven discovered the
car wouldnt start and pointed to a problem with the battery that it says wasnt related to the
incident. Ive seen a copy of the diagnosis from the repairer and, based on the report, I think
it was reasonable for Haven to decide that it wouldnt cover the battery repair. At the time,
this was the only expert opinion on the condition of Mr As car, so I think it was fair for the
insurer to rely on this.
Its not for me to decide whether the battery issue is indeed related to the incident. I can only
make a finding on whether Haven acted fairly when it decided not to cover the battery repair
 which, as I explained above, I think it did. However, in its final response to Mr A, Haven
gave him the option of obtaining an independent diagnosis of the problem with his car.
Haven added that if Mr A provides an independent report that indicates the issue with the
battery is related to the incident; it would then refer to it engineers for a final say on the
matter.
Mr A provided a copy of an independent inspection of his car  he says this was sent to 
Haven around July 2021, but he didnt receive a response from the insurer. The independent
report points out that:
there was no communication with the electrical system
the car lost communication with the electrical system during the accident
nothing changed after installing a new battery
the main module requires repair or replacement
In my opinion, this independent inspection indicates theres a wider electrical problem with
Mr As car and suggests this was caused by the incident. Havens engineer concluded it was
merely the battery that needed replacing, but the independent inspection reports that
replacing the battery made no difference.
After our investigator queried this independent inspection with Haven, the insurer suggested
that Mr A has his car examined by a manufacturer approved mechanic and agreed to cover
the costs of this diagnosis. Mr A seems to have had issues arranging this and says the
diagnosis was refused on two occasions given his car is imported. Haven says it doesnt
have the resources to arrange a mobile inspection and refuses to take the car back until the
battery issue is resolved. The insurer also questions whether Mr As car was driveable 
before the incident and says the onus is on him to prove the claim.
I think Haven has treated Mr A unfairly since his submission of the independent diagnosis. In
its final response, Haven put the onus on Mr A to disprove its conclusion that there was a
problem with the battery and that this wasnt related to the incident that led to the claim. I
think that Mr A has provided an expert opinion on his car, which contradicts Havens position
that the battery is the problem. The garage Mr A took his car to had replaced the battery and
reports that this made no difference.
The garage also points to there being a problem with the main module which it says
occurred during the incident. I think this places doubt on Havens overall diagnosis and
demonstrates that its more likely that the battery wasnt the reason the car wouldnt start. Ifthe problem was with the battery alone, replacing it wouldve resolved the issue and the car
wouldve started.
When our investigator queried the second diagnosis with Haven, the insurer asked that Mr A
has his car examined again  but this time it asked that this is carried out by a manufacturer
approved mechanic. I think this was unreasonable. Mr A had already obtained an 
independent diagnosis, which had demonstrated that the battery wasnt the problem and that
the overall electrical issues with the car were incident related. Haven had said in its final
response that, provided Mr A obtains an independent report, it would refer to its own
engineers for a final review. Instead, the insurer has asked Mr A to obtain a further diagnosis
and hes made at least two further attempts to do so. Haven shouldve taken ownership of
any further diagnosis of the car  using its own engineers  in line with what it said it would
do.
I note that our investigator initially discussed the option of sending out an engineer to carry
out a mobile diagnosis of Mr As car. Haven says it cant accommodate this. But I cant see
anything that suggests that Haven would be unable to arrange another on-site diagnosis with
one of its own engineers. Haven said it wont take Mr As car back for repair until the battery
problem is resolved. However, I think this is what the insurer should now do, so that it can
establish exactly what was damaged during the incident and what it needs to repair.
Haven questions whether Mr As car was driveable before the incident  I think its
unreasonable for Haven to have done so. Mr A says he drove the car before the incident and
his car was driven in to whilst left parked. Haven hasnt pointed to any actual evidence or
diagnosis that suggests the car wouldnt start even before the incident took place. So I cant
conclude that theres a possibility that the issues identified after the incident were 
pre-existing issues.
Compensation
In my opinion, the initial compensation proposed by our investigator  which Haven agreed
to pay - doesnt go far enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has
experienced. Ill explain why
When Haven identified the problem with starting the car, it offered to repair/replace the
battery at Mr As cost. Haven only gave Mr A 48 hours to reply, which I understand, given
the potential charges for storing the car. But after Mr A did agree to cover the costs to
repair/replace the battery, Haven later explained that its engineers couldnt carry it out
anyway. This was misleading and unfair on Mr A, as the insurer led him to agree to
something that couldnt have been done anyway. Haven shouldve ensured a thorough
diagnosis was carried out before putting this option to Mr A. Listening to the call that
followed, I can see Mr A was left upset and distressed by the change of decision.
Additionally, Mr A says he sent Haven a copy of the independent diagnosis hed arranged.
Mr A says this was sent to Haven around July 2021  but there was no response from the
insurer. Once this was queried by our investigator, Havens instructions led to Mr A visiting
two manufacturer approved garages, but he was turned away. As I explained above, Haven
shouldve arranged to inspect the car again itself, rather than put the onus on Mr A as hed
already provided an independent diagnosis. This unfairly inconvenienced him and I think he
should be compensated, both for the delay in dealing with the independent report and for
asking Mr A to unnecessarily pursue further inspections.
I think a fair level of compensation is £200  so I intend to instruct Haven to pay this to Mr A.
To summarise, I think Havens initial decision not to repair Mr As car until the batteryproblem had been resolved was fair. At the time, the only expert opinion on the car indicated
an issue with the battery. However, Mr A was able to disprove this by arranging an
independent inspection and this suggests the battery wasnt the problem after all. At this
point, Haven shouldve arranged to re-inspect the car and have its engineers provide a
further say on the matter. I think it was unreasonable for Haven to have continued expecting
Mr A to provide further independent reports diagnosing the problem.
At this stage, Im provisionally deciding that Haven has acted unfairly and I intend to ask it to
re-inspect Mr As car using its own engineers and transportation facilities. I also intend to
ask that Haven pay Mr A £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A accepted my provisional findings. Haven didnt respond. So I have no further 
comments and my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
To put things right, Haven should:
re-inspect Mr As car using its own engineers and transportation facilities and then 
review its decision on what repairs it can carry out to his car
pay Mr A £200 compensation
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should settle the complaint 
in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman