DRN-2823797
The complaint
 The Estate of Mr D is unhappy that, following Mr Ds death, HSBC UK Bank Plc released 
the balance of his account with them to a family member of Mr D.
Mr D left a will appointing an executor. But, on 18 September 2019, the executor signed a 
deed renouncing their role in favour of the solicitors Mr D appointed if such circumstances 
should arise. So the Estate of Mr D is being represented in this complaint by the solicitors 
who are also acting as executors to the estate.
What happened
 Following Mr Ds death on 9 August 2019, a family member (Mrs W), visited HSBC. She 
provided them with Mr Ds death certificate and told them Mr D hadnt left a will. Mrs W said 
there was no surviving spouse or civil partner, there were no family disputes, and Letters of 
Administration werent required. Mrs W also provided HSBC with a bill from a firm of funeral 
directors for the costs of Mr Ds funeral, which HSBC paid from Mr Ds account on 9 October 
2019. They then paid Mrs W the remaining balance of Mr Ds account on 14 October 2019.
The executors contacted HSBC on 10 December 2019 to ask about Mr Ds account. HSBC 
confirmed theyd released the funds to Mrs W and that Mr Ds account had been closed. The 
executors complained to HSBC that they paid the account balance to the wrong person. But 
HSBC didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong. So the executors brought this complaint 
to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mrs W had provided HSBC with Mr Ds death certificate, told them she 
was his next of kin, and provided a bill from the funeral directors. So he understood why it 
seemed that Mrs W had the legal authority to deal with Mr Ds estate. But he said that it 
didnt mean this was the case, and he didnt think HSBC did enough to find out.
The investigator said the balance in Mr Ds account at the time was £7,369.99, which was 
above the small estate limit. So, even though Mrs W said there wasnt a will, he thought that 
HSBC shouldve told her that Letters of Administration would be required  Letters of 
Administration are for when there isnt a will; a Grant of Probate is for when there is. He also 
said that, although HSBC had unsuccessfully tried to recover the money from Mrs W, they 
should still pay the estate the £2,213.61 they paid to her. And they should also pay the 
estate the costs theyve incurred in pursuing HSBC for Mr Ds funds.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigator. Theyve said that the executors should establish if 
Mrs W had used the money to pay off estate debts or has already distributed the money to 
the beneficiaries; and if not, they should pursue her for the money. Theyve also said that 
Government guidance says financial institutions should abide by their own rules when it 
comes to estate limits. And their rules dont require them to obtain a Grant of Probate.
However, HSBC said, in an email dated 10 June 2021 that if the Solicitors obtain a Grant of 
Probate naming them as Executors and can provide this to us, we would need to pay the 
funds away again (to the Solicitors) and then try and recover the funds we initially paid to 
{Mrs W}. HSBC were provided with a copy of the Grant of Probate, which named the 
solicitors as executors. But they havent paid any funds to the estate. So, because this 
matter hasnt been able to be resolved, its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ds will. This appoints the solicitors as executors to his estate, if his 
named executor is unable or unwilling to carry out this duty. But the will doesnt name Mrs W 
as an executor or as being amongst Mr Ds beneficiaries. Based on this, Im satisfied Mrs W 
had no legal standing to either deal with the closure of Mr Ds account with HSBC or receive 
the funds in that account.
But Im also aware that Mrs W signed a declaration saying there was no will, and that she 
was Mr Ds legal next of kin. So HSBC wouldnt have known about the will, and I wouldnt 
expect them to have asked for a copy of a document they were told didnt exist.
Ive seen the declaration Mrs W signed on 20 September 2019. In signing this, Mrs W said 
that she was legally entitled to administer Mr Ds will. She also signed to say:
Where HSBC have agreed to release funds without Grant of Probate or Letters of 
Administration the following will apply:
Accept that if any other parties come forward who have a valid claim on the 
deceaseds estate you will be liable to repay the monies  to HSBC.
To be responsible to HSBC in respect of any and all losses, costs or expenses HSBC 
incurs in dealing with any claims or demands which may be made against HSBC as a 
consequence of HSBC paying the monies  without my/our obtaining a Grant of 
Probate or Letters of Administration, if other parties lodge a valid claim.
This declaration, while saying that Mrs W is responsible for repaying HSBC for any valid 
claims against Mr Ds estate, doesnt indemnify HSBC against any claims. So I dont think 
this means that the executors need to pursue Mrs W directly, or that HSBC dont have any 
responsibility as a result of incorrectly paying the funds to Mrs W.
I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by paying the funeral costs from Mr Ds account. This 
is an expense the estate would have to cover, and whether it was paid on the authority of 
Mrs W or the executors makes no fundamental difference. So I wouldnt expect HSBC to do 
anything more about this.
The small estate limit is widely referred to as being £5,000, and Mr Ds account with HSBC 
had more than this in it at the time of his death. But every financial business is allowed to 
have its own rules in place. And HSBCs rules allowed them to release the funds in Mr Ds 
account without the requirement for a Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration.
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what policies financial 
business should have in place. This is a decision HSBC can make in line with its regulator  
The Financial Conduct Authority. For this reason I dont think that HSBC did anything wrong 
by releasing the funds to Mrs W once shed signed the declaration.But Ive seen HSBCs case notes relating to this matter. And their case note of 24 December 
2019 says **care  funds released incorrectly** And their email of 10 June 2021 says that, 
on the advice of their specialist Bereavement Technical Team, they should pay out the 
executors (and try to recover the money from Mrs W) where a Grant of Probate exists.
So, based on the declaration Mrs W signed on 20 September 2019, and on HSBCs 
subsequent case notes and specialist advice, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances that HSBC should pay the executors of Mr Ds estate the money that was in 
his account on closure. And then try to recover this from Mrs W.
Putting things right
 The executors have provided a breakdown of the cost to Mr Ds estate for dealing with 
HSBC about this matter. And this totals £603. However, the £43 cost for initial call to HSBC 
would always have incurred, even if HSBC hadnt released to funds to Mrs W, as this was 
the initial request for Mr Ds funds to be transferred to the executors. So Im satisfied this 
shouldnt be included, and the actual costs to Mr Ds estate are £560.
So HSBC should:
pay Mr Ds estate £2,213.61  the amount left in Mr Ds account after the payment of 
Mr Ds funeral expenses; and
pay Mr Ds estate an additional £560.00  the costs it incurred in pursuing HSBC for 
Mr Ds account funds.
HSBC are entitled to try and separately recover this money from Mrs W, in line with the 
declaration Mrs W signed on 20 September 2019.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold The Estate of Mr Ds complaint. HSBC Bank Plc 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman