DRN-2088333
The complaint
Mr As complaint concerns difficulties he experienced in transferring some shareholdings 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC to a new provider.
What happened
Mr A held a Smart Investor investment account with Barclays. In September 2019 it wrote to 
him to explain that as he was resident outside the UK and the Smart Investor service was 
designed for UK-based investors, he would no longer be able to use its full service after 
5 November 2019. 
The letter suggested that Mr A either transfer his holdings to a new provider or sell them. In 
respect of transferring it said, Please ask the (new) provider to contact us with the 
appropriate transfer instructions as quickly as possible.
Mr A opted to make a transfer, so opened an account with a new provider in his country of 
residence and asked it to contact Barclays. When the new provider reported a lack of 
success in making contact, Mr A wrote to Barclays asking for it to provide details of the 
person to be contacted. When no response was forthcoming, he raised a complaint. 
There then followed several months of confusion and difficulties as Barclays attempted to 
facilitate the transfer with the new provider. I wont set out full details of the various 
correspondences as both parties are fully aware of these. Once contact had eventually been 
made between the providers, which didnt effectively happen until March 2020, there was 
further delay until the transfer finally completed in May 2020. 
Barclays issued a final response to Mr As complaint in June 2020. It acknowledged Mr As 
dreadful experience and that it could have been more effective in facilitating the transfer. It 
also acknowledged that the initial letter of September 2019 could have been more 
informative about what steps Mr A needed to take; in particular, that specific contact details 
could have been provided for Mr A to pass on to the new provider. 
Barclays made an offer of compensation totalling £500 to Mr A. This was to acknowledge the 
time taken to resolve the complaint and complete the transfer, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and for an additional issue relating to Mr A being unable to log a 
complaint on-line. Barclays also offered a refund of account fees from October 2019 
onwards, totalling just over £130. 
Mr A didnt accept Barclays offer as he felt that considerably higher compensation was 
warranted  for the amount of time hed spent dealing with the complaint, the deprivation of 
control of his holdings and a decline in value over the period in question. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator concluded that Barclays offer 
was fair in the circumstances. As Mr A didnt accept this, the matters been referred to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the service provided to Mr A by Barclays fell far short of what it was 
reasonable for him to expect. 
I think its clear that the primary driver behind the problems he experienced was  as 
Barclays has acknowledged  the failure to provide clear instructions at the outset as to what 
Mr A and his chosen new provider should do and how Barclays should be contacted. 
To simply say ask the provider to contact us without giving a dedicated phone number, 
email address or reference number was, to my mind, always likely to create problems, 
particularly as this was a situation where any new provider was likely to be based overseas. 
But Barclays has made an offer of compensation to Mr A and having considered it in the 
context of all the circumstances I think its a fair offer. I note that Mr A has highlighted the 
amount of time spent dealing with the matter, but its unavoidably the case when a complaint 
is made that time will need to be devoted to dealing with it. As the investigator noted, we 
wouldnt generally look to compensate for time spent in bringing a complaint. 
In respect of being deprived of control of the stock and its decline in value, it would appear 
Mr A accepts that, even given the fall in value over the period in question, as he didnt wish 
to sell the stock at any point, his position wasnt impacted in this respect. I think its fair to 
say that Mr A now simply feels that the compensation should be higher because of just how 
poor the service he received was  and hes particularly unhappy with Barclays ongoing 
attempts to place some responsibility on the new provider for the problems. 
I have some sympathy with this point. Even if the new provider did fail to contact Barclays 
initially (and I think this is unlikely), the whole difficult experience did stem from failings on 
the part of Barclays.  
But, as noted, while I recognise that Mr A will be disappointed and I do appreciate that this 
wouldve been a very frustrating experience for him, I think Barclays offer is a reasonable 
one, in line with what I wouldve directed had the offer not already been made.  
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold the complaint, as I consider the offer already made by 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC  of £500 plus the refund of fees  to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman