DRN-4291967
The complaint
Mr M complained about the customer service he received from AXA Insurance UK Plc 
(AXA) during a claim he had under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M made a claim for the damage caused in his house after a pipe burst in his loft. He 
complained that AXA didnt act quick enough. He had to commission his own plumber as an 
emergency to fix the leak. He said AXA didnt do anything practical to help him and it took 
over two weeks before a loss adjuster visited his home to assess the damage. Mr M was 
also unhappy with the difficulties and delays he felt he suffered when he tried contacting 
AXA on more than one occasion.
AXA acknowledged Mr M couldve had a better experience and he had waited longer than 
usual for his calls to be answered as its claim department was exceptionally busy. AXA also 
accepted its contractor responsible for drying the property missed an appointment which 
caused a delay. AXA said it couldve provided better progress updates to Mr M. AXA paid Mr 
M £150 for the distress and inconvenience these issues caused. It has offered a further £150 
since it issued its final response, which Mr M has declined.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought AXA has acknowledged the 
errors it made, and he thought the increased offer of compensation was fair for the impact 
the issues had on Mr M. Mr M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services jurisdiction only allows us to make decisions in certain circumstances, so its 
important for me to clarify how Ive approached this complaint and what Im able to consider.
Mr M was unhappy he had to deploy his own plumber to fix the leak. However, as AXA are 
only responsible for repairing the damage from the leak under the terms and conditions of 
his policy. There is nothing I can consider against AXA on this point.
Mr M has raised further issues with us about his claim. However, I can only consider issues 
Mr M has raised directly with AXA and it has had the opportunity to investigate and provided 
a final response on. Therefore, I havent considered issues that occurred after the date of 
AXAs final response letter on 8 February 2023.
I have reviewed the aspects of the complaint that I can look at, and I think the revised offer 
of £300 in total made by AXA is fair in the circumstances. This will be recorded as an uphold 
on the complaint, as it was an increase made after the final response and after the complaint 
was escalated to our service.
I think £300 is reasonable in reflecting the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M for 
the issues raised. Its in line with what Id expect someone in our service to our award. 
AXA has explained the missed appointment was caused by sickness within its team. This 
was frustrating for Mr M as hed taken time off work. But Im persuaded this was a one-off 
event which was unfortunate, but something AXA has accepted was its responsibility.
The drying was initially delayed due to worries of a health and safety nature  I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to take these precautions. With any claim, its inevitable there will be 
some inconvenience. However, its not the insurer that caused the incident leading                 
up to the claim. So, its only fair to look at the impact of the specific errors made by AXA and 
not the overall claim itself.
I appreciate Mr M had difficulties getting through to AXA as the lines were busy, but I think 
the offer of compensation is fair. I think asking AXA to provide more compensation would be 
unreasonable, as the inconvenience caused wasnt long lasting in nature.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay £150 additional compensation for distress and inconvenience if it hasnt done so 
already (thats a total of £300).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman