DRN-2594831
The complaint
X is unhappy with the premiums BUPA Insurance Limited is charging for his private medical 
cover.
What happened
X has held private medical cover with BUPA since 2003. Hes unhappy with the increase in 
premiums for his cover, as when he took it out it cost a few hundred pounds a month and 
now it costs over £1,000.
X has raised a number of complaints to BUPA about this pricing issue, but BUPA didnt 
uphold them. Our service first looked into this in 2017 and issued a final decision not 
upholding the complaint.
X came to us in 2020 and again raised the issue of pricing, as his premiums had continued 
to increase. He was also unhappy that he was covered for up to £2million a year and wanted 
to be covered for much less than this  and so pay a premium proportionate to less cover. 
He had discovered epidemics and pandemics were excluded from his cover since 2015 and 
didnt consider this was fair.
Our investigator didnt uphold Xs complaint. She said that BUPA was entitled to set the 
pricing for the policy and wasnt required to offer the bespoke cover X wanted. And she said 
the pandemic terms had been made clear years before. X disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the case, so its been passed to me for a decision. This decision 
only considers matters which BUPA has already had the chance to consider itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
X has explained the maximum level of cover hed like to be insured for, £250,000, 
which is an eighth of what BUPA offers. BUPA has explained it doesnt allow this 
type of flexibility in the policy X has. This is a legitimate commercial decision and not 
one our service would get involved with. If X wants a policy with less cover he can 
look elsewhere. I understand the issues this may cause him and his family, due to 
previous claims on this cover and their health conditions. However that isnt an issue 
for BUPA  it isnt obliged to offer him the bespoke policy he is asking for. 
BUPA has explained to us how Xs premiums are calculated and why they have 
increased over the years. As X is aware, this decision only looks at his more recent 
complaints about the increases  since 2017  as our service has already issued an 
ombudsmans decision on increases prior to this date.
Im satisfied with the information BUPA has supplied to us and accept that the cost of 
providing the kind of insurance cover X holds has increased since 2017. As weve 
previously set out to X, BUPA is entitled to decide what it charges for its cover. We 
can only check if X has been treated unfairly, such as in comparison to others.
BUPA has considered the level of risk X and his family personally hold  which 
increases with age  and then factored in the deductible theyve agreed to, alongside 
wider factors, such as medical inflation. Im satisfied X has been treated the same as 
other BUPA customers and that, unfortunately, it is more expensive to hold this type 
of cover now  as the potential costs covered for individual claims are greater than 
they were. I havent seen any evidence his premiums are falsely inflated, or an error 
has been made in what hes been charged.
X has provided us with the premium costs of another, similar policy as part of his 
evidence hes being overcharged. But its not possible to directly compare these 
policies, as a starting point, this policy is from a different company based in another 
part of the world. And in any event, as Ive set out, Im satisfied BUPA has charged X 
fairly and in line with its other customers. As above, its then for X to decide if he 
remains with BUPA or he chooses to insure elsewhere.
Im satisfied the terms of the policy have been made clear to X over the years and 
our service doesnt have the power to tell BUPA what cover it should offer. I 
appreciate the unexpected nature of the pandemic, but Xs policy was clear about the 
cover it provided in this situation years prior to March 2020. And the premiums hes 
paid are based on what the policy has agreed to cover him for, so I wouldnt expect 
BUPA to do more than this now.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Xs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman