DRN-3989178
The complaint
Mr B complains about Covea Insurance Plcs (Covea) handling of a claim made under his 
commercial insurance policy. 
Any references to Covea include its agents. 
What happened
Mr B owns a property which he rents out. He took his policy out in May 2021. In March 2022, 
Mr B says he was told about a crack on an internal wall, so he contacted Covea. In April 
Covea arranged for a loss adjuster to carry out an inspection at the property. Covea said 
during the inspection, one of the tenants said the cracking first appeared in 2019 and a 
repair had been caried out in the same area in 2021. On this basis, Covea declined the 
claim, saying the damage pre-dated the policy and Mr B should log the claim with his 
previous insurer. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B complained to Covea. He said he thought more weight should be 
given to the reports provided by his property management company. This was on the basis 
they regularly inspected the property. Covea issued its final response in September 2022 but 
didnt change the decision made on the claim.
Mr B referred his complaint to this Service, and it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He asked Covea on three separate occasions for it to share a copy of the 
information relied on when concluding the tenants first noticed the cracking in 2019. As it 
didnt do so, he upheld the complaint, recommending Covea reconsider the claim. As Covea 
didnt reply, this matter has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator asked Covea to provide a full copy of the report from its loss adjuster, 
whereby it was apparently noted the tenants said theyd first noticed the cracking in 2019.  
Im satisfied Covea has been provided with many opportunities to provide this information. 
Unfortunately, that report hasnt been provided, so my decision is limited to the information 
and evidence available to me. 
Ive started by considering the reports provided by the property management company. 
There are a number of these reports dating from February 2019. However, the first reference 
of cracking is in the report dated July 2021, just after the start date of Mr Bs policy. The 
March 2022 report also references cracking in the walls at the rear of the property. But 
neither of these reports give any information about how the cracking progressed, nor do they 
show the cracking predated the policy start date. 
Ive noted the extract from the report from the loss adjuster, which Covea sent by email. But 
without the context of the wider report (which was asked for several times), I find myself 
more persuaded by the group of reports carried out by the property management company 
in setting out the condition of the property both before and after the policy began. 
Like our investigator, Im not persuaded Covea provided sufficient information to show it was 
more likely than not the cracking in the property was present before the policy started in May 
2021. Where the information available to me is contradictory or incomplete, as is the case 
here, I need to decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Based on the evidence and information available to me, Im not persuaded by the argument 
Covea put forward to allege the cracking was present before the policy began. If Covea 
believes it can rely on an exclusion in the policy terms to decline a claim, it must show the 
exclusion applies. I dont consider it has done so here. For these reasons, Im requiring it to 
reconsider Mr Bs claim, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr Bs claim subject to 
the remaining policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman