DRN-3084477
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with and 
handled a claim they made under their home insurance policy for damage to their roof. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A hold a buildings and contents home insurance policy with Admiral, which 
includes cover for accidental damage. When their policy was incepted a copy of the policy 
terms and schedule were made available to them.
 
Between 20 and 21 January 2021 Mrs A and Mr A say they heard noises from the roof and 
woke up to find damage had been caused to the chimney flaunching. Mrs A and Mr A say 
the damage was caused by a storm and so they contacted Admiral to make a claim.
 
Admiral appointed their engineers to provide a report in order to determine the cause of 
damage to the roof. Admirals engineers were due to have a video call with Mrs A and Mr A 
but this didnt happened, and instead they provided a desktop report based on the 
documentary evidence they requested from Mrs A and Mr A. The engineers told Admiral 
there was no evidence of storm damage or damage caused as a result of a one-off event as 
was required by the policy. Admiral therefore repudiated Mrs A and Mr As claim for roof 
damage.
 
Mrs A and Mr A subsequently paid for the repair to the roof, which cost them around £1170. 
They were unhappy they had to cover these costs themselves. And they werent happy that 
no video call had taken place. As Mrs A and Mr A felt Admiral had dealt with their claim 
unfairly, they complained. When Admiral responded to Mrs A and Mr A they wouldnt agree 
to cover the cost of repairing Mrs A and Mr As roof as they said there was no evidence of 
storm related damage. But they did offer Mrs A and Mr A £60 for poor service as they 
accepted the engineers had said a video call had taken place when it hadnt.
 
Mrs A and Mr A werent happy with Admirals response to their complaint. They felt the 
damage had been caused by the storm so wanted Admiral to reimburse them for the costs 
theyd incurred in repairing the roof. And they also didnt think the £60 was sufficient. So, 
they referred their complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator looked into what happened and her view was that the offer made by Admiral 
on the poor service was fair and the complaint about the claim shouldnt be upheld. She 
didnt feel the weather conditions met the definition of a storm under the policy and she felt 
the weather condition simply highlighted the wear and tear issues with the roof. 
Mrs A and Mr A disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was roof damage to Mrs A and Mr As property and its agreed 
that they notified Admiral promptly on becoming aware of the damage. However, theres a 
disagreement between Mrs A and Mr A and Admiral about the cause of the damage and the 
correct outcome of this claim. What I need to consider is whether Admiral acted reasonably 
in declining this claim. And Ill explain why I think they have.
 
Mrs A and Mr As policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. In order for a 
claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy. Admiral considered whether or not a 
storm had caused the damage. I think that this was reasonable because Mrs A and Mr A told 
them they thought the roof damage had been caused by adverse weather.
Our investigator has already explained the tests we apply when considering claims for storm 
damage, and how these applied to this case. These tests are:
 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Mrs A and Mr As policy defines a storm as Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55mph), or heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, or snow to a depth of at least 
30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such severity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass. 
So, I firstly need to decide whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the 
damage is said to have happened. Mrs A and Mr A said the damage to the roof was caused 
between 20 and 21 January 2021, so Ive looked at weather reports for their location from 
around this time. Having done so, I cant see that rainfall was at least 25mm per hour or that 
wind speeds exceeded 55mph  and so there werent storm conditions when the loss 
occurred, meaning the policy term hasnt been met. And so, Im satisfied that Admiral hasnt 
acted unfairly by declining Mrs A and Mr As claim.
As Mrs A and Mr As policy had accidental damage cover, I considered if the policy would 
cover the damage caused to the roof under this part of the policy. The engineer say it was 
wear and tear rather than storm damage that caused the issues with the roof. The engineer 
is an expert in their area of work, and Admiral are entitled to rely on their findings. 
Mrs A and Mr A have provided me with their contractors quote which notes they felt the 
damage was caused by a combination of heavy rain downfall, winds and freezing 
temperatures.
 
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory or conflicting, I have to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the available evidence. Ive been given the report 
from the engineers and I can see the evidence they relied on to make their 
recommendations. And having looked at the photographic evidence I dont think this was an 
unreasonable conclusion for them to reach as the roof doesnt look like its been particularly 
well maintained.  
I appreciate Mrs A and Mr A have concerns the engineers completed their review without 
visiting the property, but Ive not seen anything to persuade me that this meant the engineer 
wasnt able to reach a finding as to the likely cause of damage.
 
In respect of gradual causes the policy says: Any loss or damage by anything that 
happens gradually including wear and tear, wet and dry rot, damage due to exposure to 
sunlight or atmospheric conditions [] isnt covered. 
Because the policy excludes damage which happened gradually, Mrs A and Mr A arent 
entitled to cover in respect of this. So, Im also satisfied Admiral acted fairly in declining their 
claim here too.
In their final response letter, Admiral accepted they didnt provide good customer service as 
the engineer incorrectly said theyd had a video call with Mrs A and Mr A. Admiral offered 
£60 compensation, which Mrs A and Mr A didnt accept. Ive looked at Admirals handling of 
their claim. While Mrs A and Mr A are frustrated with the outcome, ultimately, there wasnt a 
storm and I dont think even if the engineer had carried out the video call or even a site visit 
that this would have changed their report. 
While I recognise Admiral has made mistakes, this isnt to the extent that would lead me to 
increase the compensation offered in this case. So its now up to Mrs A and Mr A whether 
they choose to accept the offer made by Admiral. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman