DRN-2532147
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt pay the Refer a Friend (RAF) 
incentive after she switched her current account. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs R was referred to Nationwide by a third party with the aim of switching her 
current account and receiving the RAF incentive. Mrs R has told us branch staff advised she 
needed to complete the application online. Mrs R says she completed the application in full. 
Nationwide opened Mrs Rs new current account but didnt pay the incentive. Mrs Rs 
representative complained to Nationwide and it said the second part of the RAF form wasnt 
returned, which is why the incentive wasnt paid. But Nationwide agreed to pay the £100 
incentive and it was credited to her account towards the end of November 2019. 
Mrs Rs case was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They initially upheld 
the complaint and said Nationwide had failed to pay £100 as agreed. But the case was later 
passed to a new investigator who reached a different view. Nationwide explained it had paid 
the £100 incentive to Mrs R after it responded to her complaint and pointed to an entry 
marked sundries on her bank statement. The new investigator thought Nationwide had 
dealt with Mrs Rs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs Rs representative asked to appeal and said Nationwide hadnt made it clear that the 
incentive would be paid after it issue the final response. As Mrs Rs representative asked to 
appeal, her case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining that in this decision Im only able to look at Mrs Rs complaint 
and how the issues raised have impacted her. I understand someone else referred Mrs R to 
Nationwide and that the delay in receiving the RAF incentive also affected them. But as this 
account is in Mrs Rs sole name, Im only able to comment on her complaint. 
Ive read and considered everything provided by Mrs Rs representative and Nationwide in 
this case. Id like to thank Mrs Rs representative for the level of detail theyve included. If I 
havent commented on everything theyve said, it isnt because I havent considered it. Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues of Mrs Rs case, an approach that is in line with 
the informal nature of this service. But Id like to assure the parties involved that Ive 
considered all the available information when reaching my decision. 
Mrs R says she completed all the forms Nationwide requested as part of the RAF 
application. Nationwide says a form that was required to receive the incentive wasnt 
returned with the application, which is why it wasnt paid when the account switch went 
through. I understand Mrs Rs strength of feeling on this matter, but I think Nationwide is 
telling the truth when it says the incentive wasnt immediately paid because it didnt receive 
the required form. I think its more likely than not that, if Nationwide had received the second 
part of the RAF form, it wouldve paid Mrs R the incentive in line with its normal process. 
I can see Mrs Rs representative took the matter up with Nationwide and went on to raise a 
complaint. Nationwide responded and explained why no incentive was received, it also said 
no error had been made. But in its final response Nationwide agreed to pay Mrs R the £100 
incentive to try and resolve her complaint. Nationwide went on to credit Mrs Rs account 
around two weeks after it sent its final response. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Rs representative spent time dealing with this matter on her behalf, 
I think Nationwide acted fairly when it paid her £100 in relation to the RAF incentive. 
Mrs Rs representative has pointed out that Nationwide didnt follow up its final response with 
confirmation the incentive was paid. But I think Nationwides final response is clear in 
explaining the RAF would be paid, which is what it went on to do. I can see the incentive was 
paid around two weeks after the final response was sent, but I havent found the settlement 
was unreasonably delayed. I think Nationwide dealt with Mrs Rs complaint fairly, so Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman