DRN-3449785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the performance of the Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) account 
they held with Cofunds Limited. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Mr and Mrs S have disagreed with the investigators view and maintain that the ISA 
account was not managed well and moved from one provider to another which is why it 
didnt grow. The facts around what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to re-assure Mr and Mrs S that I have reviewed all the information available even 
though I havent specifically commented on every point. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Between November 2017 to November 2020, Mrs S has achieved £786 in profits and 
Mr S £775 but I havent seen anything to suggest any guarantee of performance was 
ever given. 
Stocks and shares are not a guaranteed product with definite returns. Its 
performance is dependent on the performance of the stock market and can fluctuate 
depending on market conditions, and I am satisfied that this is covered in the terms 
and conditions of the ISA. 
Cofunds provide a platform for Mr and Mrs S to trade. They are a non-advisory 
service so the decision on where they invest their funds is their own.
The ISA was not sold by Cofunds and they were not responsible for management of 
it, they were simply the administrator of the platform used to invest in the ISA.
Mr and Mrs S have received annual statements from Cofunds since 2011 and 
quarterly statements since 2019 so they would have been aware of the performance 
of the ISAs. 
They would also have been made aware when the administrator of the fund changed 
each time. To be clear, a change in administration doesnt mean the fund itself was 
changed so this wouldnt have affected the performance of it. 
Whilst I appreciate the situation Mr and Mrs find themselves in, if they were unhappy 
with the performance of their investments they could have made the decision to 
move their funds elsewhere but didnt do so.
Having considered everything, I cant say that the performance of the funds was 
because of anything Cofunds did or failed to do, and I am not persuaded that any 
wrongdoing on Cofunds part has been established. 
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Cofunds Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman