DRN-3841609
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company
Limited (DAS) policy. Mr M says DAS treated him unfairly.
Mr M is helped by his son in bringing this complaint, but Ive referred to Mr M only in this
decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim
against a housing developer and his two sons in relation to a property dispute.
He appointed his own solicitor to deal with the claim based on terms of appointment he
agreed with them. DAS agreed to fund some of those solicitors costs in accordance with
their own terms of appointment.
Mr M is unhappy because DAS havent paid all of the legal costs he incurred. He feels that
he has the benefit of £100,000 worth of legal cover so DAS should pay that sum to his
solicitors, which doesnt cover the entire amount he has spent on legal costs.
He says hes now found himself in dire financial circumstances; hes been unable to work
due to considerable ill health and subsequent surgery and he isnt able to pay the legal fees
hes being asked to hand over. When he brought this complaint to this Service, he said he
re-mortgaged his property to discharge those fees. Since then, hes told us he needs to sell
his home to meet his commitments. He feels DAS is to blame for this because they havent
reimbursed him for legal costs he feels hes entitled to under his legal expenses insurance
policy.
DAS accept there was a delay in Mr Ms costs being assessed by about 7 weeks. They
offered Mr M £75 in compensation for this. But they dont accept that any further delays from
this point onward were on the part of their cost assessor to look into things. Rather they say
that various questions were asked of Mr Ms own solicitors, including sight of their files, in
order to properly assess whether the costs being claimed fell within policy cover. The cost
assessor has expressed concerns about costs being incurred by those solicitors without
DAS authority. As of the date of this decision, DAS say various pieces of information remain
outstanding which means his files cant be properly costed.
DAS did however offer Mr M a further £100 for service issues relating to the level of
assistance he received when he called DAS and spoke to differing claims handlers on
different occasions.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. He said he thought the cost
assessment DAS was carrying out was taking too long and that DAS should engage an
independent professional to bring the matter to a timely conclusion. DAS didnt agree with
the investigators view. They said this wouldnt resolve things as an independent cost
assessor still wouldnt be able to assess the matter under the policy terms because Mr Ms
solicitor hadnt provided enough information for any assessor to properly reach meaningful
conclusions.
Because of this, the matter was passed to me to determine. I issued a provisional decision to 
both parties in November 2022. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Mr Ms policy, like virtually all other before the event
insurance policies contains a number of terms and conditions that need to be satisfied in
order for an insurer to discharge legal fees. Where an insurer has appointed their own
representative to act for a policyholder, the matter of costs is something agreed between
them. In this case Mr M appointed his own solicitor. And it looks like he also entered into
terms of appointment directly with them. DAS has agreed to fund part of those solicitors
costs in accordance with its own terms of appointment, but those costs are subject to that
agreement and the policy terms being met. So, although Mr M feels he should be
reimbursed for the sums hes paid towards those costs, up to the policy limit, they are
subject to DAS being satisfied the policy terms and terms of appointment have been
complied with.
In this case DAS has done what I would reasonably expect them to do by appointing their
own cost assessor to look at Mr Ms solicitors costs and decide whether they were fairly
incurred. Ive seen some of the correspondence between the assessor and Mr Ms solicitors
in respect of this. It seems that information is still required from those solicitors to enable
DASs cost assessor to conclude its assessment. As such DAS isnt in a position to decide
what to pay in respect of those costs.
In light of this, I agree that neither Mr M nor DAS would be better off having an assessment
carried out by an independent cost assessor. They would also face the same obstacles in
reaching an opinion. I cant compel Mr Ms solicitors to provide DAS with the information
needed to complete their assessment. But given those solicitors are instructed by Mr M, he
should now instruct them to comply with what is being requested of them.
Like the investigator, I agree that matters are taking far too long to resolve and that this has
had a significant impact on Mr M. But I cant hold DAS responsible for this beyond the 7
week delay they accepted was caused by them. The correspondence Ive seen suggests the
problem is not with DAS; but rather that theyre not in a position to deliver an answer on what
theyre prepared to pay in respect of Mr Ms costs. And I think their overall offer of £175 in
compensation for both the 7 week delay and some service issues in relation to claims
handling when Mr M called them, is fair in the circumstances.
DAS have made payments on account of costs to Mr M to help alleviate some of the
financial pressures he was facing. Whilst this might not be enough to assist him, DAS arent
obliged to make payments on account, particularly when they dont yet know what their
liability is in relation to Mr Ms claim for costs. Although Mr M might not be satisfied with the
total paid, I cant say DAS acted unfairly in not paying him anymore.
I know that relations between Mr M and DAS have broken down somewhat. And I am sorry
to hear about the difficult circumstances Mr M finds himself in now. There have been several
exchanges between him and DAS that have proved unhelpful to both parties. There is
nothing I can meaningfully do to assist with these issues other than to point out that the best
way to move things forward is if Mr Ms solicitors furnishes DAS with everything theyve
asked for to assess the claim.I asked both parties for any more comments and evidence in response to my provisional 
decision. DAS have responded confirming they have nothing further to add. Mr M has not 
responded to my provisional findings. He has however copied this Service into further 
correspondence with DAS. I can see that in one of those letters refers to his solicitors 
responding to DAS, presumably in relation to the cost assessment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Thats 
because I havent seen anything from either party that persuades me my provisional findings 
were incorrect. 
And even though Mr M has copied us into correspondence with DAS where he says his 
solicitors have responded to them, presumably in relation to the current cost assessment, he 
hasnt provided any evidence to support this. By this I mean a letter or an email from his 
solicitors setting out that theyve provided everything DAS cost assessor has asked for to 
allow the cost assessment to be completed. In the absence of that I cant say DAS have 
done anything wrong and Im not persuaded that my provisional findings arent applicable to 
this complaint in the form in which it was brought to us.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision dated November 2022, I dont 
uphold Mr Ms complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman