DRN-2702121
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined 
her claim under her commercial property owners insurance policy after two of her properties 
were damaged when they were used to grow cannabis. 
What happened
Mrs B owned nine properties which she let out. She used an agent (who Ill call Mr G) to 
find tenants and collect the rent. Mrs B insured the properties through LV.
In February 2019, one of Mrs Bs properties was raided by police and was found to be used 
as a site to grow cannabis. The tenant was arrested. Mr G informed Mrs B of this but told her 
the damage to the property was only minor and that he would arrange for its repair.
In April 2019, the insurance of the properties was taken over by another company.
In January 2020, Mrs B inspected her properties and found a number of them were being 
used to grow cannabis and had been damaged. Furthermore, some of the properties did not 
have the named tenants living there. She informed the police. She also made claims to her 
new insurer in respect of the damaged properties.
The new insurer said that in respect of two of the properties, the raided property about which 
Mrs B had been informed and another which unknown to her had been raided at about the 
same time, the damage had occurred before April 2019. The claim for these properties was 
therefore passed to LV.
LV declined the claims for these two properties. It said that neither Mrs B nor Mr G had 
conducted reference checks for the tenants or retained inspection logs for the properties as 
required under the policy.
Mrs B complained to LV about its decision. She said that she had believed Mr G had been 
performing these duties on her behalf whereas it transpired he had been arrested and was 
likely involved in the cannabis growing operation. She said that, given his likely involvement, 
it would therefore have made no difference even if he had performed these tasks because 
he would have been intent on keeping the illegal activity secret.
LV wouldnt change its decision. Mrs B therefore referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator ultimately recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted 
that for the malicious damage section of cover to apply, it was necessary for Mrs B or 
someone acting on her behalf to have obtained references for the tenant. This hadnt been 
done and, in the investigators opinion, Mrs B hadnt shown that her failure to comply with 
this requirement had had no effect on the events which had occurred. He therefore 
considered it was fair for LV to rely on this clause to decline the claim.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She explained that she had dealt with Mr G 
for a number of years during which time he had operated under the guise of various different 
companies and he was registered with the local authority as an accredited property agent. 
She explained that she had therefore trusted Mr G. He had provided ID documents for the 
tenants who were supposedly in the two properties in question (but who since had not been 
found) and she had assumed he had carried out the relevant background checks.
Mrs B said it now seemed likely that Mr G had been deceiving her all along and provided 
evidence to show he had now been charged by the police with conspiracy to produce 
cannabis as well as forgery and fraud offences. In view of this, she said it would have made 
no difference even if references had been sought for tenants because this action would have 
been carried out by Mr G and, in view of his likely involvement in the crime, he would have 
falsified the references in any case. Indeed, Mrs B questioned whether tenants had even 
been in the properties and thought that Mr G, whom she understood had been accused of 
cultivating cannabis in about 50 properties which he had been managing, might be directly 
responsible for the damage. She said the other insurer had accepted her claims in respect of 
her other properties and she considered LV should do the same.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for specified perils. For Mrs B to have a successful claim, she has 
to show that one of these perils applies. Mrs B has said that she is a victim of organised 
crime which may be true but the policy does not provide specific cover for this.
The specified peril which appears most relevant to Mrs Bs claim is illegal cultivation of 
drugs. This cover has the following conditions:
It is a condition precedent to the Insurers liability under this Additional Cover that the 
Insured or authorised persons acting on their behalf or their managing agents shall in each 
instance
a) obtain and retain written and verified references for all new residential Tenants, 
prospective residential Tenants or Tenants in residence for less than a year from a 
current employer former landlord or sponsor. The Insured must produce such written 
references if so requested by the Insurer in the event of a claim under this Additional 
Cover
b) obtain and retain formal photo ID of any new Tenant
c) obtain and record details of any new Tenants bank account and verify those details by 
receiving at least one payment from such account
d) carry out internal and external inspection of the Buildings at least every 3 months
e) maintain a log of such inspections and retain that log
f) carry out a six monthly management check of the inspections log
However, the cover also offers cover for malicious damage by tenants. There is nothing to 
say that damage caused through the illegal cultivation of drugs cant instead be considered 
under this particular peril and the conditions precedent to liability are less stringent in that 
they consist of only a) and b), above.Mrs B has provided evidence to show that Mr G had obtained formal photo ID of the tenants 
in the two properties. She believed he had also obtained and retained written and verified 
references for these tenants. However, it appears that he hadnt.
The Insurance Act 2015 applies to commercial insurance policies. The Act states:
11. Terms not relevant to the actual loss
1) This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance, other than 
a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to reduce the risk of 
one or more of the following-
a. loss of a particular kind,
b. loss at a particular location,
c. loss at a particular time.
2) If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not rely on the 
non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the contract for the loss if 
the insured satisfies subsection (3).
3) The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the term 
could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred.
Mrs B owned nine rental properties generating a combined rental income in excess of 
£50,000 per year so I consider it is reasonable to regard her as a commercial customer and 
apply the principles of this Act to her claim. This means that LV may rely on Mrs Bs failure to 
comply with the requirement to obtain written references for her tenants as a reason to 
decline her claim unless Mrs B can show that this failure could not have increased the risk of 
the loss which occurred.
Mrs B believes that it would have made no difference if she had obtained references. This is 
because the references would have been obtained on her behalf by Mr G and it is likely he 
would have falsified them in any case given his apparent involvement in the criminal 
operation.
I dont consider that Mrs B has shown that her failure to obtain tenant references made no 
difference to what happened. She speculates that Mr G would have simply falsified the 
references. However, given that he was acting on her behalf, this would be no different to 
Mrs B falsifying the references. So this would still amount to a failure to obtain written and 
verified tenant references and thus provides no defence under the Insurance Act 2015 
against LVs decision.
Mrs B didnt have a written contract with Mr G. However, she delegated responsibility for 
managing the properties to him and he didnt do what he was supposed to do. Any failure on 
his part is a matter between Mrs B and Mr G; it doesnt involve LV.
In summary, while I sympathise with Mrs B who has apparently been the innocent victim of 
criminal activity carried out by her agent, I dont consider that LV is liable to provide cover for 
her loss under the terms of the policy. The fact that another insurer has chosen to pay her 
claims does not alter this.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman