DRN-1410049
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr R and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr R and Mrs W took out PPI at the same time as applying for and taking out 
a mortgage. Both things happened by branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr R and Mrs W's mortgage payments in the event Mr R - 
the policy was set up in his sole name - couldn't work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy would pay out around £460 a month for up to 24 months per 
claim and it cost about £24 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr R was employed, and he said he was entitled to six months or 
more in sick pay - he also said he had redundancy pay. Mr R and Mrs W said they had no 
other means they couldve used to make their repayments and Mr R was in good health at 
the time.
BoS' records show the mortgage account ended in 2002.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr R and Mrs W chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong 
or inappropriate for them.
Because Mr R and Mrs W disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Mr R and Mrs W's complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Mrs W's complaint. My reasons are set 
out below.
did Mr R and Mrs W have a choice about PPI? 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr R and Mrs W didn't have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although I can understand if they cant now remember this. 
BoS has provided some of the paperwork from the time, including their mortgage application. 
Looking at this I can see there was a separate section about PPI, which asked the applicant to sign the section if they wanted PPI - if they didn't want it, it could've been left blank. Mr R 
signed this section.
In addition to this I can also see that Mr R signed a separate PPI application to take out the 
policy - a separate and distinct application from the mortgage application.
So, overall I think BoS did enough to show that PPI was optional and that Mr R and Mrs W 
chose and agreed to take the policy out.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr R and Mrs W. This means BoS had to check that 
the PPI was right for Mr R and Mrs W  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example, Mr R as the policyholder was eligible for the 
cover; he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those 
for existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances and Mr R seem to 
have had a need for the cover.
Mr R had some sick pay he could've used to make the mortgage repayments. But the policy 
would've paid out in addition to this and for longer if necessary - up to 24 months per claim. 
So, if he found himself unable to work for an extended period of time, at the point Mr R's sick 
pay stopped I think he and Mrs W would've found the policy useful - it could've helped them 
out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. I think it could've ultimately 
helped them protect their home. 
Because of this, I don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended PPI to Mr R and 
Mrs W.
the information  
I'm satisfied Mr R and Mrs W understood the cost and benefit of the policy - this was set out 
on the PPI application. But I accept its possible the overall information BoS gave Mr R and 
Mrs W about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think 
they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And as I also said 
above it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr R 
and Mrs W off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mr R and Mrs W have lost out as a result of having PPI, so BoS 
doesn't have to pay back to Mr R and Mrs W what they paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr R and Mrs W have said - including what Mr R's said about 
being told about the risk aspect and how being risk averse he took the policy out of safety. 
But these points dont change my decision.
It strikes me that Mr R in his particular circumstances did the right thing and protected 
himself against the risk of being in the position of not being able to afford his and Mrs W's 
mortgage payments if he wasn't working. This is the purpose of insurance and it seems likely 
from what Mr R's said that the adviser discussed this with Mr R - in the circumstances I don't 
think that was unfair or unreasonable
 
My final decisionFor the reasons above I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman