The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc allowed him to make a payment to a fraudster and 
won't refund the money he's lost. Bank of Scotland trades in this case under its Halifax 
brand. 
What happened
In February 2017 Mr L found a motorbike for sale on eBay. He says that he researched both 
the bike and the seller (through feedback on the eBay site) before agreeing a price of 
£3,450. He paid the agreed price by online transfer from his account with Halifax. 
Mr L didn't however receive the bike and, a few days later, contacted Halifax to explain what 
had happened. Halifax tried unsuccessfully to recover the money from the beneficiary's 
account but was unable to do so. As Mr L had made the payment himself, Halifax said it 
couldn't refund the money he'd lost. 
In August 2019 Mr L complained to this service about the actions of Halifax. He thought the 
bank should have identified that the payment was unusual and so should have made more 
checks before allowing it to be made. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but didn't recommend that the bank 
make a refund. She didn't believe that the payment was particularly unusual or that it would 
have appeared suspicious. She thought too that, even if Halifax had contacted Mr L about 
the payment, he would have gone ahead anyway - having already satisfied himself that the 
seller and the bike were legitimate. 
Mr L didn't accept the investigator's recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. Amongst other things, he referred to guidance issued by the British Standards 
Institution (BSI) in 2017. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
As the bank and the investigator noted, Mr L made the payment himself; that is, he 
authorised Halifax to debit has account. The usual position is that a bank should follow 
valid payment instructions given by its customer. So I have to consider whether there was 
any reason for Halifax to do anything different in this case.
DRN-2009744The investigator didn't consider that this payment was particularly unusual for Mr L. He'd 
made four-figure payments from the same account in the previous few months, albeit for 
lower amounts. She noted too that the account remained in credit after the payment - 
meaning it was unlikely that someone else had gained access to it.
In some cases banks will make further checks where, for example, a significant payment is 
made to a new payee, and that is what was happening here. But I agree with the investigator 
that, even if Halifax had checked the payment with Mr L, it's very likely that he would have 
confirmed his payment instructions. He believed he was buying a motorbike and had, after 
all, carried out extensive checks of his own before committing to making to payment. Making 
a payment of several thousand pounds to a new payee was exactly what he would have 
done if the seller had been genuine.
I note what Mr L has said about the BSI guidance, published towards the end of 2017 - that 
is, some months after he made this payment. To a large extent, however, it reflects what I 
would have expected account providers to do at the time, as a matter of good practice. But 
the fact that the bank's systems didn't prevent Mr L's losses in this case isn't, of itself, an 
indication that those systems were at fault or inappropriate. Mr L of course knew much more 
about the background to the payment than Halifax did, and had made his own investigations, 
but he was satisfied he was paying a legitimate seller.  
Once Halifax found out what had happened, it contacted the beneficiary's account provider 
within a few hours, as I would expect it to have done. It wasn't however able to recover any 
funds, but I believe it took reasonable steps to try to do so. 
It's unfortunate that Mr L has been the victim of a scam, but I don't believe that I can fairly 
hold Halifax responsible for that.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Bank of Scotland plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr L's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman