DRN-2622452
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader, trading as R. Mr A complains about poor customer service received 
from National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) when his business account debit card 
expired.
What happened
Mr A complains that the debit card for his business account expired on 30 November 2020 
and he didnt receive a replacement until 4 December 2020, leaving him unable to make 
purchases for his business. He says that he had previously chased a replacement debit 
card. And as a result of not receiving it on time, his reputation has been damaged due to not 
being able to complete the jobs he had planned in good time and he says he has lost out on 
future business as a result.
Natwest has acknowledged that it had a problem issuing a new debit card and that there 
was a delay. It says that Mr A used the previous card for the last time on 30 November 2020. 
His replacement card was sent out the following day by first class post and Mr A made his 
first purchase with the new card around 9am on 4 December 2020. So it says he was 
without the use of the card for three days.
Natwest has agreed that the service it provided fell short on this occasion and initially offered 
him £50 compensation. However it later increased this offer to £300 compensation, which it 
says is still available for Mr A if he would like to accept it.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that while 
Mr A had provided evidence of his accounts for several months prior to the issue, they didnt 
substantiate the £1,000 loss that Mr A had mentioned, and she believed the £300 offered 
was sufficient for any losses. And she didnt think Mr A had provided sufficient evidence of 
future losses. She also believed that Mr A had access to other means of making payments.
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain 
why.
I understand that Mr A has had a number of issues with Natwest regarding his account. 
However this complaint relates solely to his debit card being sent later than it should have 
been.
There is no dispute that there was a delay of around three days where Mr A was without a 
debit card and couldnt make purchases by debit card, which caused him and his business 
some inconvenience.
Mr A says he has lost £1,000 of income  a rate of £250 a day for four days, which is the 
amount he says he required to cover his costs. However he was only without a debit card for 
three days. And even if that was the amount he required to break even, he hasnt provided 
any evidence to show that was the amount he would have taken had he been open. His 
accounts for the months prior to this incident dont substantiate that level of income. And his 
income for November 2020 wasnt significantly higher than for December 2020.
Mr A also says he has lost two customers as a result of this incident but hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence of that. He says the agreements with his customers are verbal. But 
taking everything into account, I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to establish that 
Mr A lost these customers solely as the result of the three-day delay in his debit card being 
delivered.
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr A has provided sufficient evidence to show 
the losses he says he has and will incur as a result of his debit card arriving three days late.
However I recognise that this would have been inconvenient and frustrating for him, 
particularly given that he has had several issues with Natwest for this account. And I think 
the amount of £300 Natwest has now offered him in recognition is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience caused as a result of being without a debit card for 
three days. I say that because, without evidence of the losses Mr A believes he has suffered, 
the offer of £300 appears to reasonably make up for any shortfall in income over these days 
and reflect the inconvenience caused. Natwest has confirmed that this offer remains open if 
Mr A would like to accept it.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr As frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman