DRN-2881092
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) when 
he noticed unusual activity on his current account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of paperwork in support of his complaint, some of which relates to 
other concerns he has about Barclays, and others. This decision only addresses the 
complaint points Barclays responded to in its final response letter of 5 January 2021. If Mr M 
wants to raise other complaints against Barclays, he may be able to do so. But its not for me 
to comment on those here.
Mr M has also been very detailed in his submissions to our service. My findings, however, 
will focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint and so wont be as detailed as he 
might like. Neither of these actions are meant as a discourtesy. Instead, they reflect the 
informal nature of our service. But I can assure Mr M (and Barclays) that Ive considered the 
whole file. If I dont mention something, its not because Ive ignored it  I havent  its just 
that I dont think doing so is necessary to reach a fair outcome on this complaint.
This complaint started in late 2020 when Mr M noticed what he believed to be duplicated 
transactions on his account  one for about £25 and another for about £8. He queried these 
with Barclays. Ultimately Barclays didnt think either transaction had debited Mr Ms account 
twice, but it did refund the £8 one as a gesture of goodwill. Ive looked at Mr Ms statements 
and neither debited his account twice, so I dont think Barclays debited Mr Ms account by 
more than it should have. It follows Im not going to require Barclays to refund the £25 
transaction. 
Mr M has provided screenshots of his Barclays banking app which would suggest the 
transactions in question had already debited the account but were still showing as pending. I 
think this is where the confusion has come from. Barclays has explained this sometimes 
happens when a merchant makes an error by attempting to debit an account twice but says 
these issues normally resolve themselves without any intervention by the bank, and dont 
impact an account balance. I accept this explanation. Barclays said Mr M could contact the 
merchants involved about this  which he did  if he wanted the pending transactions 
cancelled. Although this seems unnecessary given what Barclays said about these issues 
resolving themselves, I dont think this was wrong advice. 
Mr M was also sent a text message saying his account was overdrawn. He says he shouldnt 
have received this text because he wasnt overdrawn. But from his bank statement I can see 
that he was. On 9 December 2020 he was £8.39 in credit. But four transactions debited the 
account the following day taking him £18.13 overdrawn. Its common for banks to update 
their customers via text message when an account goes overdrawn. Its a pro-active step to 
help a customer manage their money. As Im satisfied the account was overdrawn at the 
time the text message was sent, I dont think it was an unreasonable step for Barclays to 
take to support Mr M.
Mr M says he was advised by Barclays during a phone call to visit a branch. He says this 
was inappropriate because visiting a branch would have increased his chances of catching 
Covid-19. I see his point. But the branch was open and safeguarding in line with government 
guidelines. And Mr M hasnt said he was shielding. The dispute here  what his app was 
showing versus what Barclays agents could see  would have been much easier to resolve 
in person where Mr M could show what he was seeing. In these circumstances I dont think 
suggesting Mr M attend a branch to help resolve matters was unreasonable. In any case, 
Mr M didnt attend a branch, so I dont think this matter caused him any detriment. 
Mr M says he tried to contact Barclays using an online chat facility. He says he got 
disconnected twice. No doubt this would have caused some frustration to Mr M and I can 
see he had to subsequently call Barclays to raise his concerns, which clearly wasnt his 
preferred method of communication at the time. Its unclear why the chats disconnected. But 
Barclays has accepted it could have been to blame and paid Mr M £30 compensation. I think 
thats reasonable as although annoying, Mr M didnt lose out as a result of being 
disconnected from the online chats. 
Mr M has clearly put significant time and effort into this complaint. But for the reasons set out 
above, Im not going to require Barclays to take any further action in relation to it.
My final decision
I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman