DRN-3024721
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Evolution Insurance Company Limited required an Insurance 
Backed Guarantee for the piling of their self-build property, before issuing the final 
certificates for a warranty.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs H bought a warranty with Evolution for their self-build home. 
They bought it through a broker who I will refer to as B. 
The property was completed in November 2019 and at this time Mr and Mrs H requested the 
final certificates from Evolution. However it said it couldnt issue them until they had bought 
an Insurance Backed Guarantee (IBG) for the piling foundations of the building. It said this 
was a condition of the warranty. 
Mr and Mrs H provided a document from the builder who completed the piling, but Evolution 
didnt accept this. Instead they had to pay around £6,000 to purchase an IBG through B. 
They werent happy about this extra cost as they said they hadnt been told it was needed. 
They made a complaint to B. 
B didnt respond to their complaint in the required timeframe, so they brought their complaint 
to this service. A complaint was raised against B and one against the insurer - Evolution, as 
B was responsible for the sale of the warranty and Evolution was responsible for asking for 
the IBG and not accepting Mr and Mrs Hs first document.
Evolution responded to say that it requires an IBG for the piling as part of its underwriting 
criteria for the warranty. And it had told the builder of the property about this when it 
originally sent the quote. It also said that the first document provided by Mr and Mrs H wasnt 
an insurance policy, just an agreement between them and the builder, so wasnt enough to 
meet the requirement. 
Our investigator considered this and didnt recommend the complaint against Evolution be 
upheld. He said it had shown that an IBG for the piling was a requirement of the warranty 
and that it had told the builder before the warranty was taken out. Further, he was satisfied 
that the document provided by Mr and Mrs H wouldnt meet the definition of an IBG so 
thought Evolution acted fairly by not accepting this.
Mr and Mrs H didnt think this was fair. They said the requirement for an IBG for the piling 
wasnt in the warranty agreement or mentioned at any site visits. And they didnt think it was 
fair that they had to purchase an IBG through B at a cost of around £6,000 when there were 
cheaper options available. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that Mr and Mrs H have two complaints about the circumstances  one 
against B, the broker, and this one against Evolution, the insurer. In this decision I am only 
considering the complaint against Evolution, so Ill only consider its actions and not those of 
B. Because the two complaints are so closely linked, for complete clarity the issues I will 
consider as part of this complaint are as follows:
Evolution required an IBG for piling as part of the warranty.
Evolution didnt accept the document provided by Mr and Mrs H in the first instance, 
which meant they had to pay around £6,000.
Ive considered these in turn.
Mr and Mrs H dont think its fair that Evolution requested an IBG right at the end of the build. 
The sale of the warranty was handled by B, so I wont comment here on whether the 
requirement for an IBG was made clear to Mr and Mrs H or not at the point of sale. Instead I 
need to decide if Evolution acted fairly by requesting it. 
Evolution has provided a copy of its underwriting criteria for the warranty and this shows that 
an IBG for the foundations is required for the warranty to be activated. So Im satisfied that it 
acted fairly by requesting this from Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained that the document they initially provided wasnt 
accepted by Evolution, which meant they had to purchase a much more expensive one. 
Evolution has provided a copy of the agreement Mr and Mrs H gave it when it requested an 
IBG. Ive looked at this and it is a contract between the builder, Mr and Mrs H and the 
appointed sub-contractor who carried out the work. However it isnt a contract of insurance. 
The purpose of an IBG is to provide insurance cover to rectify defects if the builder who 
carried out the work, subsequently goes out of business. The contract provided by Mr and 
Mrs H provides no such protection. It just lays out the contractual roles and responsibilities of 
those involved. And as Evolution specified that an IBG would be required for the 
foundations, I think it acted fairly by not accepting this contract in order to activate the 
warranty. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Evolution acted fairly when requesting an IBG, so I wont 
ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman