DRN-3482665
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined to refund £2,750 which she 
lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that in October 2021, Mrs A was 
tricked into sending funds in the belief she was sending them to secure a rental property in 
London whilst she was living abroad. 
Mrs A was looking to rent a property in London so searched online for properties. She found 
a website online, looked on their website and social media and spoke to someone via the 
website and messages. She had used this method to rent properties previously, though not 
the specific company in question. They showed her photos and videos of numerous 
properties they had on offer, and discussed prices, locations and proximity to things like 
supermarkets and hospitals. She was not able to physically check out the property because 
she was abroad at the time. She looked up the company she believed she was speaking to 
and saw they were a valid company and had operated since the early 2000s. Believing 
things to be legitimate, she agreed to make two payments  one of £1,000 as a security 
deposit and one of £1,750 for half of the total monthly rental cost. The person she spoke with 
asked her to pay via bank transfer or through cryptocurrency. She didnt understand what 
cryptocurrency was at the time, so she said this didnt give her any cause for concern. She 
opted to pay via bank transfer and did this over two days. 
The scam came to light when Mrs A asked a friend to go to the address to collect some post 
she had sent there, and it transpired that someone else lived at the address. The website 
and social media pages had been taken down, and she could not get a reply from the person 
she had been speaking with. Mrs A raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo investigated Mrs 
As complaint and issued its final response in October 2021, not upholding the complaint. In 
summary, they didnt accept liability because they said they had provided sufficient fraud 
warnings before Mr P made the payments. They also thought Mrs A could have done more 
to check she was dealing with a legitimate company who had the right to rent out the 
property in question. They did manage to retrieve just over £100 that remained in the 
receiving bank account after she reported the scam. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mrs A brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld, and that Monzo should refund the money that Mrs A had lost, along with interest. In 
summary, our investigator didnt consider that Mrs A had ignored any genuinely impactful  
warnings and they thought this was a sophisticated scam and very believable to Mrs A, so 
she had a reasonable basis for believing that she was making a payment towards a deposit 
for a legitimate flat in London. 
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators opinion on Mrs As complaint. In summary they 
maintained that she didnt do sufficient checks to ensure she was genuinely talking to a 
legitimate business who had the right to rent the property to her because she: 
May have received photos and videos of the property, but she didnt do enough to 
confirm that the property was available. For example, she had not seen shown proof 
that the landlord was registered or owned the property; she hadnt visited the 
property or asked someone to do so on her behalf; and she hadnt paid by card or 
PayPal as legitimate letting agencies allow you to do. 
Had no reasonable basis for believing she was talking to a legitimate letting agency 
when she had spoken to them over a messaging service  she had not checked that 
the number was linked to a legitimate company, and the messaging application in 
question does not require any verification of who users are. 
Had been sent documentation after the first payment, but that documentation was of 
low quality and should have caused Mrs A to have done further checks prior to 
sending a second payment. For example, it contained someone elses name, and 
incorrect payment values. 
Was sent a screenshot of Companies House that contained the details of a company 
that was listed on the invoice, but there was no evidence the person she spoke to 
was linked to the legitimate business. Further, the business name on the social 
media account or the web address did not match the business name listed on the 
invoice. 
Had been offered an airport pickup, but there was no evidence this service existed or 
that the customer got picked up  it was merely another false promise by the 
scammer. 
Had not provided evidence that she had independently checked Companies House  
and the invoice said the company was registered in 2001 not in 2003 as she claimed 
it said on Companies House. 
They also pointed to previous decisions reached by ombudsmen at this service, which had 
been upheld in their favour and suggested that the cases had been similar and so logically 
we should reach the same conclusion in this case. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of their customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mrs A lost in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect 
Mrs A from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
There is no dispute here that Mrs A was tricked into making the payments. But this is not 
enough, in and of itself, for Mrs A to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. 
The Code places a level of care on Mrs A too. 
The CRM Code 
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances, but has agreed to apply its 
principles. Monzo say exceptions to reimbursement apply in this case. It says that Mrs A 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was legitimate or 
was providing a legitimate service.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mrs A ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment being made? 
Monzo, in its submissions to this service explained that whilst Mrs A would have been 
provided with a warning in the payment process, they didnt need to provide a warning under 
the CRM code and so were not relying on the warnings when they decided to reject Mrs As 
complaint. Under the CRM Code, Monzo is required to present an effective warning where it 
identified a scam risk. I dont consider that the payments made by Mrs A were out of the 
ordinary and therefore, the bank ought to have believed there was a scam risk. The amounts 
sent werent particularly large. I appreciate it is not an inconsequential sum of money, but I 
dont consider there were any concerning features of the two payments totalling £2,750 to 
put the bank on notice. And so, I dont believe the bank needed to do more than it did in 
terms of providing warnings about making the payments. 
Did Mrs A have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mrs A had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the transactions were genuine. But it does not persuade me to reach 
this conclusion. In particular, I am not persuaded that Mrs A failed to take the requisite level 
of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse her under the terms of the CRM Code 
and I dont consider that Mrs A lacked a reasonable basis for belief. I say this because: 
Mrs A had found the website and social media of what she believed to be a legitimate 
business, so she got in touch with them through their website. They then spoke to 
her over messages and on the phone, and the conversation didnt give her any 
reason to believe that the person she was speaking to was not legitimate. And I dont think using a messaging application when she had contacted them, they had spoken 
to her on the phone and she was expecting further communication from them would 
or should have rang an alarm bell in the circumstances of this scam. I do accept that 
the offer to pay the partial deposit in cryptocurrency could be seen as a red flag to 
those of us who are familiar with cryptocurrency, but Mrs A didnt really understand 
what it was and thought it was akin to mobile payment systems. 
Mrs A was not able to visit the properties in person as she was not in the country, but 
they were able to provide videos and photos of the properties and answer relevant 
questions she had about them. She didnt ask someone to go and visit the property 
on her behalf  and given that she was looking to rent the property for only around 
one month and she had experience in renting properties this way before, I think this 
was reasonable in the circumstances. She did ask a friend to pop over to pick up a 
parcel after she had agreed to rent it, and they confirmed that the property existed 
but that they couldnt get in as it was vacated and the letting agent had not been 
able to meet them. Monzo argued she should not have paid until she had seen the 
property  but she was looking to organise somewhere to stay from the date she was 
arriving in the UK so I think it was reasonable to pay a deposit and payment towards 
the rent in order to secure the property. 
Mrs A didnt do checks into who owned the property  but I dont think this is common 
practice for letting properties. I do appreciate that she didnt think she was dealing 
with a high street company as Monzo have pointed out  but I dont think this means 
that she did insufficient checks. She thought she was dealing with a legitimate 
company  and as such that they had the right to rent her the property, and I think 
this is reasonable to believe without seeing evidence. 
The price did not appear to be too good to be true  it was a comparatively expensive 
rental due to the location in London, and it was in line with similar properties in the 
area. They also asked her to pay to secure the property, not the full balance, which is 
quite normal practice and so this would have likely further cemented her opinion that 
she was dealing with a legitimate company. 
Mrs A said she had checked Companies House and saw that the company had been 
operating since 2003. Monzo have correctly pointed out that it had been operating 
since 2001  I think it is most likely that Mrs A mis-remembered the exact year the 
company was registered rather than that the company was registered. I dont think 
this means she did not do this check. 
Monzo have suggested that the documentation Mrs A received should have alerted 
her that she may not be dealing with a legitimate company, for numerous reasons 
which I will go through in turn:
- The documentation uses word art and generally does not look very professional. 
I agree that the documentation is not the most aesthetically pleasing 
documentation, and does appear less professional. But I dont think that by 
extension it should make someone who sees it think they were falling victim to a 
scam  just that they were dealing with a smaller business. I think the content of 
the documentation is more relevant than its presentation, which I will move onto 
consider next. 
- The documentation Mrs A received had someone elses name on it, rather than 
hers. But she had initially given the scammer the name of one of the party she 
was planning to travel with. If it were a totally random name, I think this would 
have impacted her basis for belief  but as this was not the case here I dont think it should have alerted her to the risk of a scam. 
- Monzo have argued that the documentation had the incorrect price on it when 
compared with what Mrs A paid them. I dont agree. She thought she was paying 
a deposit of £1,000  which is listed as a security deposit on the document. And 
she thought she was paying half of the rent for the month, with the other half 
payable on arrival  the rent is listed at £3,500 for the month and half of this is 
£1,750  which is the amount of the other payment she made. 
- Monzo have pointed to the name on the document being different to that on the 
website and social media. I agree with our investigator that it is not unusual for 
companies to have more than one name. They have said that the Companies 
House website says that trading names should not include limited or LTD as the 
scam company appeared to  but I do not think this is common knowledge and it 
does not seem to appear on the webpage when you look up a company. From 
what I can tell, it appears in a blog page on the Companies House website  a 
page I would not expect most customers looking for somewhere to stay to be 
particularly familiar with. 
- So in conclusion, I do not think the document or its contents would impact her 
reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate company. 
Monzo have argued that it is unusual to pay for such services through a faster 
payment, and they would have expected her to make the payment either through 
PayPal or as a card payment. Faster payment is legitimately used for these 
purposes, and whilst other payment options are available I dont think it is sufficiently 
unusual to pay by faster payment for this to have any bearing on her belief she was 
dealing with a legitimate company. 
On balance, I am satisfied that when considering all of the circumstances, Mrs As decision 
to make the payments was not unreasonable. I believe that Mrs A believed she was dealing 
with a legitimate company and she wanted to ensure she had accommodation ready for her 
time in London, and she had rented properties in the same way before without issue. Mrs A 
was not alive to the possibility she was dealing with a fraudster and this is another reason 
why I dont think she acted unreasonably by engaging with the fraudster and making the 
payments. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, I am not satisfied Monzo has been able to establish that 
when Mrs A sent the payments she did so without a reasonable basis for belief. 
I would also like to note we consider each complaint individually on its merits. And in this 
case, the final decisions referred to by Monzo were both international payments which 
means that the CRM code would not apply to them as it does in this case  so our reasoning 
and considerations in these cases would not be the same as those applied to this case. So, 
the decisions they have referred to do not have any impact on my thinking in this case. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as I 
have explained, I am satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think it is fair that Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
Refund the £2,750 lost as the result of the scam  minus the sums recovered; and Pay 8% simple interest from the date they declined to refund Mrs A under the CRM 
Code until the date of the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint against Monzo 
Bank Ltd and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman