DRN-2185294
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a cheque she paid into her account with Santander UK Plc hasnt 
been credited to it.
What happened
Mrs M has a current account with Santander. She used a Santander printed envelope and a 
paying-in slip at a Post Office to deposit a cheque into her account, and she received a 
receipt for it. But she contacted Santander a week later when the cheque wasnt showing on 
her account balance. Shed been given the cheque by her father and the money had left his 
account.
 
Santander told Mrs M that it would investigate to try and trace the cheque, and she received 
a text message a few days later to say this had been completed. She called Santander 
about this but was then told that the cheque hadnt been found and she would need to ask 
her father to trace it through his bank.
Santander apologised that Mrs M had been given the wrong information that it could trace 
her cheque. It paid her a total of £75 for the distress she was caused. Mrs Ms father went to 
his bank but it told him there was nothing it could do, which caused him a great deal of 
upset. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything more. She said she appreciated that Mrs M didnt want to cause her father further 
upset and stress, but she didnt think it was unreasonable for Santander to have advised her 
that his bank would need to trace the cheque payment. The investigator thought Santander 
had properly addressed Mrs Ms complaint and had provided fair compensation for giving 
her the wrong information that it could put a trace on the cheque, when this couldnt be done 
by it. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that the situation wasnt resolved as 
Santander had lost the cheque when she paid it in through the Post Office. She had been 
told by her fathers bank that the cheque was in Santanders system so it would need to 
trace it. She said that Santander hadnt expressed remorse about the lost cheque and had 
suggested she was lying about putting the cheque in the envelope. She felt the money had 
been brushed off as unimportant, and that it had only been her that had lost out. She said 
Santander should accept responsibility for the loss as shed followed the right procedure in 
paying the cheque in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully can understand Mrs Ms frustration and upset with whats happened. And I know that it 
is difficult and inconvenient for her father to need to go back to his bank. It will have been 
confusing for Mrs M to have been passed between Santander, the Post Office and the other 
bank, when she was trying to find out where her money had gone. 
I can see that Mrs M feels that it was Santander that lost her cheque, and so it should be the 
one to trace it. I recognise that she feels that she used the Post Office to put the cheque in 
using Santanders stationary, and so the cheque became Santanders responsibility. 
However, as the cheque has been cashed and the money has been paid from her fathers 
bank account, his bank should be able to provide the details of where it was credited. 
Santander wouldnt have the information to be able to find specifically where the payment 
from Mrs Ms fathers account went, as it doesnt have access to those details. Whereas the 
other bank paid out the money on the basis of the cheque being deposited, so it should be 
able to trace which account the money was credited to or provide a copy of the cheque itself 
which may show where it was paid. 
I say this because a cheque is essentially an instruction from a customer to their bank or 
building society to pay a specified amount to a named beneficiary. So in this case, it was 
Mrs Ms fathers instruction to his bank to pay the £100 to her. But as that didnt happen, his 
bank should be able to tell him, as its customer, where it did pay this money.
 
Im sorry that this will cause further upset for Mrs M and her father. I do recognise the 
difficulty of this situation for her, and how distressing it has been for them both. However, I 
think that this action would help locate where her money was credited and help give some 
understanding to what may have happened.
Ive listened to the call recordings provided where Mrs M spoke to Santander about the 
cheque, and I do appreciate her strength of feeling and upset about the situation. I know that 
she was left feeling that what she was saying about paying in the cheque was being 
doubted, or that she was lying. However, I dont think that was the intention. It seems more 
that the representative was looking to explain how they wouldnt be able to trace the cheque, 
and why this was. 
Santander has apologised that Mrs M was given the wrong information that it may be able to 
trace the cheque for her, and that this will have made her rightly think that it could help to 
resolve this matter for her. It has also paid Mrs M a total of £75, and I think that fairly 
recognises the upset this caused her.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman