DRN-3858871
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to switch 
both Ts bank accounts as part of the Business Banking Switch scheme. This meant T 
missed out on the promised £4,000 incentive. 
T is represented by its director, Mr L.
What happened
NatWest invited T to participate in its incentivised switching scheme. Mr L expressed his 
interest online and received confirmation of which account was eligible to switch. 
Mr L chose Metro and on 24 February 2021, completed their Current Account Switch 
Agreement, writing in an account number, which was different from the one eligible for the 
switch. 
On 24 March 2021, Metro wrote confirming that the account was open and saying the 
£4,000 incentive would be paid on or around 21 June 2021. 
On 6 July 2021, Mr L queried why he hadnt received the incentive. This later became a 
complaint, which Metro didnt uphold, because they said they hadnt made an error. 
Mr L asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into the matter. I issued a provisional decision 
on 28 November 2022, in which I didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
I didnt think it was Metros fault that T missed out on the incentive payment. 
Mr L presented Metro with a form filled out with an account number (in two places). I 
didnt think it was Metros responsibility to check this was the same account number 
that was eligible for the switch.
I thought it was Mr Ls responsibility to put the correct number on the form.
I thought it was clear from the wording of the Switch Agreement that it applied to only 
the account listed. 
I wouldnt expect Metro to have a process in place to check that all incentives had 
been paid. I said this as it wasnt Metro who created or administered the incentivised 
switching scheme. 
I agreed that Metros email saying the incentive would be paid by RBS on or around 
21 June was misleading. However, I didnt think that it caused T to lose out on the 
incentive, because that deadline had already passed. 
I didnt have the power to award compensation for distress experienced by directors. 
And I wasnt persuaded that Metros misleading email caused any material 
inconvenience to T.
Mr L disagreed with my provisional findings and said, in summary: 
As a small limited company with only two employees, he felt T had experienced 
distress.
T had had at least four telephone conversations with Metro to explain their business, 
so Metro were fully aware there were two accounts to be switched. 
Metro for some reason only sent one switching form despite T explaining there 
were two accounts to be switched. So Mr L put the companys main bank account on 
it. 
Metro never said the incentive wouldnt be paid if the other account was switched. 
Metro didnt put in place the right resources to double-check that what T had said on 
the phone matched the form. 
Mr L called Metro two weeks before the deadline to ask why the incentive wasnt 
paid. He chased a week later, but they didnt get back to him until after the deadline 
had passed, so it was too late to correct the mistake. 
The misleading email led T to believe all was well. Without it, Mr L would have been 
chasing every day about the incentive. 
The switch of the wrong account caused T a big problem, needing to spend a lot of 
time copying and sorting between accounts. 
Metro didnt make any further comments, but they provided recordings of all their phone 
conversations with Mr L for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to a large number of phone calls between Mr L and Metro. Having 
done so, I havent been persuaded to change my provisional view. So Ill explain why I still 
dont think Metro was at fault. 
Under the incentivised switching scheme, there was only one account eligible to switch and 
NatWest informed those eligible which one it was. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
there is clear evidence that NatWest told Mr L which account he needed to switch. Mr L 
registered to switch that account on NatWests portal but then wrote a different account 
number on Metros Current Account Switch Agreement. 
I agree that Mr L had several detailed conversations with Metro about his business ahead of 
the switch. Mr Ls requirement for two business accounts was mentioned on these calls, but I 
think Metro made it clear that he needed to switch the account NatWest had said was 
eligible. In an hour-long call on 24 February 2021, when Mr L mentioned having two 
business accounts, Metro said when you registered for the RBS incentive, which account 
did you register? Metro go on to say that they are sending Mr L the switching form and he 
needs to make sure you put the right one on the form. 
I think this shows that Metro explained that Mr L needed to switch the eligible account - and 
that the onus was on Mr L to write the correct number on the form.  I havent heard any evidence of Metro misleading Mr L about the need to put the right 
account on the form. Neither did they suggest at any point that Metro had any procedures in 
place to check this or pick up any errors. 
On the same 24 February 2021 call, Mr L says he is content to switch just the one account 
and will sort out opening the second account later. So I dont think Metro made an error in 
only sending him one switching form. 
Mr L spoke to Metro frequently on the phone with queries. So I dont think its fair to say they 
hadnt put enough resource in place. I dont think its reasonable to expect Metro to carry out 
additional checks, when theyd explained what Mr L needed to do. 
The deadline for applications for the incentivised scheme was 28 February 2021. This 
means that by the time Metro sent their misleading email of 24 March 2021, it was already 
too late to correct the error. I have therefore concluded that it didnt cause T to lose out on 
the incentive. Mr L says he would have started chasing earlier were it not for this email. This 
may well be true, but as the deadline for applications had already passed, Im satisfied that 
this wouldnt have changed the outcome.  
The earliest call I have heard where Mr L asks where his incentive payment is, is on 
6 July 2021. This call gives every indication that he is raising the question for the first time. I 
would have expected him to refer back to earlier calls if this were not the case. This is past 
the deadline for switches to be complete. Even if he had rung a few weeks earlier, as Ive 
said, the deadline was actually 28 February 2021 for applications to switch and he hadnt 
applied to switch the eligible account. 
I appreciate Mr L disagrees with me about whether companies can suffer distress. I am 
certainly not disputing that directors can be distressed. But I have no power to award 
compensation for this where the entity entitled to bring the complaint, as in this case, is the 
company. In any case, even if I could award it, I wouldnt expect Metro to pay any redress in 
the circumstances here, as I dont think theyre responsible for the missed incentive.  
Im sorry to hear that the fact that only one account was switched caused T considerable 
inconvenience. But I dont consider this was due to any error on the part of Metro, so Im not 
going to award any compensation for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman