DRN-3451205
The complaint
Mr C is bringing a complaint on behalf of the late Mr and Mrs K. He believes TSB Bank plc 
failed to protect Mr and Mrs K from falling victim to a scam involving rogue traders.
What happened
Mr C believes that Mr and Mrs K were targeted by rogue traders from as early as 
March 2016, when they had some roofing work carried out. The payments Mr C believes are 
the subject of the fraud were all made by cheque, issued between May 2017 and June 2018. 
Mr C became aware of the cheques in October or November 2018. That was following Mr K 
having a fall resulting in his hospitalisation. Mr C had been helping out by visiting the house 
and opening post. It was when doing so he found reference to a number of cheques that 
TSB had declined to pay. In turn, that led to Mr C reviewing Mr Ks cheque book stubs and 
bank statements. He found numerous stubs referencing building and roofing work, with the 
amount totalling as much as £113,600.
Mr C was alarmed at the sum, particularly as he didnt believe there had been much in the 
way of building works carried out during the time the cheques were issued.
Mr C spoke to Mr K about the payments and the work that was meant to be carried out. But 
it seems, for reasons connected to his declining health, he wasnt able to give Mr C a lot of 
detail about what the money was meant to have been used for and what work had actually 
been done.
Sadly, both Mr and Mrs K passed away after the cheque payments were discovered by 
Mr C, with neither being able to inform him about what had been happening during the time 
the cheques were issued.
Mr C has explained that he did have a builder inspect Mr and Mrs Ks property to give an 
assessment of any work that might have been carried out. That builder told Mr C that there 
had been some work done, but it had been to a poor standard. He also said the total cost of 
the work probably wouldnt have come to more than £5,000. There was no written 
assessment provided to Mr C and the house has since been sold.
Mr C raised a complaint with TSB on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf. He felt the bank had been 
negligent in allowing such a large sum of money to be spent without question. He said the 
bank should have suspected something wasnt right, not only because of the amounts being 
spent, but also because there were cheques that were being rejected by the bank. Mr C 
thinks the bank ought to have stepped in to question Mr and Mrs K in order to protect them.
Mr C has also reported his suspicions to the police who did carry out an investigation. But, 
as I understand it, the police have been unable to track down any suspects or establish a 
case against any individuals.
What TSB has said in response to the complaint
TSB says it processed the cheques as per Mr and Mrs Ks instructions and there were no 
issues or complaints raised over the course of the thirteen months in which they were 
issued. 
The bank has gone on to say that there isnt enough information available to establish what 
has actually happened. TSB has said there are no invoices setting out what work was 
agreed nor any reports or other evidence to show what work was actually carried out (or not) 
and to what standard. 
TSB has also made reference to the way in which some of the payments were made. There 
was a cheque issued for £16,000 which wasnt accepted by the bank as there had been an 
alteration which required a signature, and there were also insufficient funds to pay it. Shortly 
after, a cheque for the same value was issued again, along with a transfer between Mr and 
Mrs Ks accounts to facilitate the payment. TSB has said this evidences that Mr and Mrs K 
knew what they were doing and were happy to pay the sum. 
Our investigators findings
One of our investigators considered the circumstances of the complaint and ultimately didnt 
uphold it. He agreed with TSBs position on the lack of evidence, though he felt there were 
grounds for suggesting it ought to have questioned some of the cheques at the time they 
were being paid.
His overall conclusion was that it wasnt possible to determine what any intervention from the 
TSB would have led to and it wasnt clear that any possible scam would have been 
uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C feels Mr and Mrs K were treated very poorly, and were very much let down, by 
TSB. And I agree that the spending out of the account, combined with the repeated 
reference to building and roof works does look suspicious. I do believe it is entirely possible 
that Mr and Mrs K were the victims of a rogue trader scam. But I dont have enough 
evidence to be able to uphold this complaint.
I cant fairly establish what work was agreed with any tradesman that might have been 
involved. I know there are reasons for it to be the case, but there is little to no testimony 
available from Mr and Mrs K. There are no invoices or estimates or schedules of works. And 
there is no evidence to show what work was supposed to be carried out and what was left 
unfinished. 
Mr C has told us that a different builder went to the house to inspect it and found there had 
been little work done. Even what had been carried out was to a poor standard. But there is 
no report or correspondence to help demonstrate what was inspected and what the findings 
were. And so theres very little for me to able to establish the facts of any possible scam. 
Ive thought about what our investigator has said about whether intervention from the bank 
would have made a difference. I believe hes made a fair point here. Its very difficult to say 
now that any questioning by the bank would have revealed a possible scam. I wouldnt 
expect the bank to carry out an inspection of the house/works, or to research the value of the 
property to compare that to the proposed cost of works. 
Instead, questioning would be around what the payments were for, was the builder someone 
theyd used before and were they happy with what was being done. Based on what Ive seen 
I cant fairly say that such questions would have alerted the bank to a scam being 
perpetrated, particularly given the payments were made over such a long period of time. Sadly, there is just not enough evidence available for me to be able to fairly and reasonably 
say that there was scam taking place, and that it was one TSB ought to have uncovered. 
And nor can I say what work was agreed but not carried out. And so I cant say TSB has 
acted unfairly in declining to refund the cheque payments.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Ms 
K and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman