DRN-4226205
The complaint
Ms T complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited, trading as RSA (RSA) 
handled a claim she made on her Motability vehicle insurance policy.
Any reference to RSA includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms T has a Motability vehicle insurance policy. This means she hires her car from Motability 
and its arranged with RSA to provide a policy for each hirer which is similar to a typical 
comprehensive motor policy. RSA handles claims from customers like Ms T. The policy 
started in January 2022. 
Unfortunately Ms T was involved in an accident in September 2022 which she reported to 
RSA. Her car was deemed a total loss but unfortunately there were delays in declaring the 
vehicle a write-off due to a system error. Ms T was also injured in the accident. 
Ms T was provided with a hire car however there was some delay in providing this. And 
when it was provided it wasnt suitable for her needs. 
During the course of the claim the third party denied liability for the accident so the treatment 
Ms T sought and paid for wouldnt be recovered from the third-party insurer. 
Ms T wasnt satisfied with the service she received from RSA and so she complained. 
RSA accepted the service it provided wasnt at the level it expected Ms T to receive. It said 
due to a system error there were delays in declaring her vehicle a total loss, since the 
documentation it required to process the loss wasnt received correctly. RSA accepted there 
were delays in providing Ms T with a hire car, and that when it was provided it wasnt 
appropriate for her needs. RSA explained rental vehicles are subject to availability and there 
were industry challenges where rental companies were unable to source alternative hire 
vehicles in their usual timeframe. RSA paid Ms T £500 to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms T wasnt happy with the response from RSA and so referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for her. He said RSA acknowledged that things 
hadnt gone as well as they could and to apologise RSA awarded her £500, which he 
thought wasnt unreasonable. And so he didnt think RSA needed to take any further action 
in respect of the complaint.
Ms T didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I know Ms T will be 
disappointed with my decision. Ive explained the reasons below. 
To be clear I am only looking at the complaint points brought to us by Ms T in December 
2022. I am aware further complaints have been raised but my decision doesnt consider 
those. 
We are not the regulator; this service doesnt have powers to tell an insurer to change its 
processes or how it conducts its business. My role is to look at whether the insurer acted 
fairly and reasonably, and within the terms of the policy.
There is a lot of information about the claim Ms T made, and Ive looked through everything 
provided. The detail is well-known to both Ms T and RSA so I havent described the claim in 
any great detail here. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain my 
decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms T but Im not upholding her complaint. I am in no doubt the impact 
of the accident together with the subsequent claim feels hard to Ms T. She has been through 
a difficult time with her health and further suffered as a result of the accident, and I 
empathise with the difficulties she has clearly faced. 
RSAs policy and process 
Like most motor insurance policies, Ms Ts provides loss and damage protection for motor 
vehicles. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract and set out what is and 
isnt covered. So my starting point is the policy which sets out a list of circumstances 
covered under the section headed Section 2  Loss and damage. The policy says it covers, 
loss of or damage to the vehicle, the vehicles in-car equipment, the vehicles windscreen 
windows and glass sunroof. I havent seen anything which suggests injuries resulting from 
accidents are covered under the terms of the policy. 
Having reviewed the policy documents I can see it says, RSA will pay the amount shown as 
Personal Accident in the Policy Schedule if the Insured person is accidentally injured in the 
British Isles or the Republic of Ireland: in the vehicle or an alternative vehicle, while getting 
into or out of the vehicle or an alternative vehicle. The injury must be directly connected with 
the vehicleand the only cause within three months of: death, permanent loss of sight in 
one or both eyes, loss of one or more limbs at or above the wrist or ankle, permanent loss of 
use of one or more limbs.   So if an accident happens which causes death, loss of limbs 
and/or permanent loss of sight in one or both eyes, the policy provides cover for up to 
£5,000 per person, for the driver and any passengers. And so Ms Ts claim for her personal 
injury and medical expenses is not covered by the policy.
I know Ms T says she wants RSA to pay her £1200 in expenses for treatment she has had 
as a result of the accident. But this isnt something that she is entitled to under the terms of 
the policy and so I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to cover this cost.
RSAs system issues
RSA experienced some system issues which contributed to the delays in processing the 
total loss of Ms Ts vehicle, and in arranging the hire car. RSA accepted the system issues it 
experienced caused Ms T difficulties. RSA paid Ms T £500 by way of an apology. I think this 
is fair in the circumstances and in line with what I would have recommended. So its not my 
intention to consider this point any further here. Policy not suitable for Ms Ts requirements 
Ms T has said she wants RSA to accept some accountability for how the insurance policy is 
sold to consumers. RSA explained how each customer is provided with a cover booklet 
which details what is and isnt included in the policy. Ms T says she didnt receive this and so 
the investigator provided her with a copy. I appreciate Ms T may not remember receiving the 
documents. Memories can and do fade, but Ive seen the letter showing the documents were 
sent to Ms T so, on balance, Im satisfied she did receive them. 
The policy is not sold to customers directly, it forms part of a package under the Motability 
scheme. So any complaints about what Ms T was told at the time she signed up to the 
scheme needs to be taken up with the scheme provider. 
On review of the information provided to me by both parties I think RSA has done enough to 
try and resolve this matter. RSA didnt manage Ms Ts expectations well since she was 
under the impression her medical and other expenses flowing from the accident would be 
paid in full. However her insurance policy isnt intended to cover medical expenses and she 
is only able to recover this if liability for the accident is accepted by the third party. And that 
hasnt happened here. 
Compensation 
I appreciate that RSAs management of Ms Ts claim didnt reach the standard she 
expected. And I acknowledge that she could have expected better treatment as a Motability 
customer. But I am of the view that £500 compensation that I referred to above is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint. And I can assure Ms T that I have 
considered her complaint carefully taking all the circumstances into account. 
I know Ms T will be disappointed with my decision. RSA has accepted the service fell below 
what would be expected and awarded Ms T £500 to reflect this. I think this is reasonable in 
the circumstances and in line with what I would have suggested had an offer not already 
been made. And this means Im not asking RSA to do any more. 
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited, trading as RSA has awarded Ms T £500 to settle 
the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman