DRN-3060627
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S, complains Zenith Insurance plc has declined a claim it 
made under a commercial insurance policy for damage to a flat roof.
Mr S, a director, brings the complaint on behalf of S.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
S hasnt been able to show that an insured event took place which damaged the flat 
roof. 
It is possible that at some point in time, storm conditions caused the seam of felt to 
lift and then let in water over time. However, S hasnt been able to point to a specific 
storm which caused such damage. It isnt sufficient to list all of the storms which 
happened since the last roof inspection and say that one of them must have caused 
the damage. 
It is equally plausible the seam of the flat roof failed due to gradual deterioration or 
wear and tear  which is excluded under the policy. Mr S has said in his experience 
frost or wind could cause a seam to lift. Damage caused by frost is similarly excluded 
under the policy and it cant be proved that if it was wind that caused the seam to lift, 
it was of such a force which would meet the definition of storm force wind. 
Zenith has said it believes the flat roof failed due to wear and tear, but it hasnt 
provided detailed evidence to show exactly why it feels that was the case. By all 
accounts only a distant inspection of the roof took place. However, for the 
explanation Ive given above, I dont think that is relevant here as S hasnt shown the 
damage was caused by an insured event.
Zenith offered to pay S compensation of £300 to recognise its delays in dealing with 
the claim. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
For the above reasons, I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ss complaint against Zenith Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman