DRN-4332492
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the charges applied by One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call)
after the cancellation of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H purchased a home insurance policy online via One Call on 5 December 2022. The
policy started the following day.
On 8 December 2022 One Call wrote to Mr H to say that following checks, theyd identified a
claim which hadnt been recorded on the policy. Theyd added this, and it had generated an
additional premium due of £11.20 and an administration fee of £39. One Call said theyd
collect this in the next 14 days.
Mr H says he didnt receive this letter until 20 December 2022 and couldnt contact One Call
until the following day. This meant by the point Mr H contacted One Call, the policy was
outside the 14-day cooling off period from when it was first taken out. Mr H is unhappy with
the charges being applied by One Call following cancellation.
As a gesture of goodwill, One Call removed the cancellation fee of £55.99 and the broker fee
of £39. They said this left a balance payable of £88.65.
As Mr H remained unhappy, he approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. He said it wasnt
reasonable for One Call to send a letter rather than email about the increase in premium as
this meant Mr H couldnt respond until after the 14-day cooling off period had expired.
The investigator also clarified there was a typo in One Calls final response, and the balance
payable was actually £49.65 rather than £88.65. He said that it was unfair for One Call to
have demanded a payment of £88.65, and he recommended One Call pay Mr H £100
compensation for the distress caused and the service Mr H had received.
Mr H agreed with the investigators recommendations. However, One Call didnt respond by
the deadline given, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. So, Im issuing 
a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
After Mr H took out the insurance policy online, One Call identified a claim in 2021 
which hadnt been added. After adding this, it generated an additional premium of 
£11.20, with an admin fee of £39.
One Call wrote to Mr H on 8 December 2022 to tell him that the additional amount of 
£50.20 would be taken in 14 days. Mr H says he didnt receive this letter until 
20 December 2022, and he couldnt contact One Call until the following day, which 
meant it was more than 14 days after the policy was taken out, and outside of the 
cooling off period.
Mr H says he should have been emailed about the additional premium, which would 
have given him time to challenge it before the cooling off period expired. Mr H is also 
unhappy that there wasnt a contact number in the letter.
Our investigator said that he thought One Call should have emailed the document, 
and he noted it didnt include a telephone number to contact them.
However, having seen the letter, this directs Mr H to an online chat function, so it 
does contain contact information for One Call. Given Mr H purchased his policy 
online, I cant see that his previous communication with One Call was via telephone 
either. But if this is how Mr H wished to communicate on receipt of this letter, he 
could either have reviewed his policy documents for a phone number, albeit he may 
have needed to be transferred internally depending which number he called, or he 
could have carried out an online search for the telephone number.
But in any event, regardless of the method it was sent, email or letter, and whether it 
was received before or after the cooling off period expired, I cant see that this has 
caused Mr H any detriment. And I think hes in exactly the same position he 
otherwise would have been in either way. Ill explain why by comparing pre and post 
cooling off period cancellations.
Cancellation outside the 14-day cooling off period
In the final response issued by One Call, they said the cancellation charges were 
broken down as follows:
Cost for days insured £13.82
Policy enhancements £49.99
Broker fees £39.00
Cancellation fee £55.99
Total cancellation cost £158.80
Total paid to date £14.16
Cancellation cost minus paid to date £144.64
One Call waived the broker and cancellation fees as a gesture of goodwill, and they 
said the remaining amount payable after that was £88.65.
However, One Call confirmed to this service that there was a typo in the final 
response and the calculation based on the above (after waiving the broker and cancellation fee) should have been £49.65. So, the actual charges for cancellation 
were:
Cost for days insured £13.82
Policy enhancements £49.99
Total cancellation cost £63.81
Total paid to date £14.16
Cancellation cost minus paid to date £49.65
Therefore, the only charges being applied by One Call are days on cover, and the 
Policy Enhancement, which is Home Emergency cover. This additional cover is non-
refundable if the policy is cancelled beyond the 14-day cooling off period and this is 
outlined in the policy terms.
Therefore, if the policy was cancelled with effect from after the 14-day cooling off 
period, as is the case here, the balance due is £49.65.
Cancellation within the 14-day cooling off period
Mr H says he should have been emailed about the additional premium rather than 
written to by letter. And if he had been, then he says hed have been able to cancel 
within the 14-day cooling off period.
However, I dont think Mr H would have been in a better position had this happened. 
Ill explain why.
If the policy is cancelled within 14 days, then the policy enhancements (home 
emergency cover totalling £49.99) wouldnt have been charged in full. So, this 
wouldnt have been included within the cancellation charges like it was post cooling 
off period.
However, if the policy is cancelled within the cooling off period, in line with the policy 
terms, One Call would charge a policy set-up fee of £49.99 to take into account the 
costs associated with arranging the policy. So, the breakdown within the cooling off 
period would have been as follows:
Cost for days insured £13.82
Set- up fee £49.99
Total cancellation cost £63.81
Total paid to date £14.16
Cancellation cost minus paid to date £49.65
One Call wouldnt have needed to waive any fees during this time as there would 
have been no reason to do so, they only did post cooling off period due to Mr Hs 
dissatisfaction. But they were under no obligation to do so. So, the set-up fee would 
have fairly been applied by One Call if the policy had been cancelled within the 
14-day cooling off period.
Therefore, by One Call waiving the post cooling off period admin and cancellation 
fees, this puts Mr H in exactly the same position had the policy been cancelled either 
before or after the 14-day cooling off period had expired. So, I dont think One Call 
has treated Mr H unfairly as he is in the same position either way.
Time on risk and policy cancellationI also dont think its unreasonable for time on risk to be charged, as the policy was in 
force until it was cancelled and would have provided cover if any claims had arisen. 
And the policy terms explain that time on risk would be charged in the event of 
cancellation, and I dont think that is unreasonable or unusual.
Furthermore, Im satisfied the time on risk charge would also have been the same if 
One Call had emailed Mr H rather than sent a letter, as the policy wasnt actually 
cancelled until 7 January 2023. This is because, when Mr H did contact One Call via 
the web chat function on receipt of the additional premium letter in December 2022, 
he asked if he just needed to cancel the direct debit. The agent said this wasnt 
correct and Mr H needed to remain on the webchat whilst they calculated the 
cancellation charges and cancelled the policy. But the chat was ended before it got to 
that stage, so the policy wasnt cancelled at that point.
Mr H didnt contact One Call again to formally cancel his policy and instead cancelled 
his direct debit, despite the agent letting Mr H know that this wasnt sufficient to 
cancel the policy and charges would need to be calculated. One Call then wrote to 
Mr H after he had cancelled his direct debit to let him know the policy would be 
cancelled due to the direct debit being cancelled (and charges would be applied) 
unless he contacted them, and it later was cancelled on 7 January 2023. So, Mr H 
didnt cancel the policy during his webchat in December 2022, and the policy ran until 
it was cancelled by One Call in January 2023, so time on risk charges applied to this 
point.
Receipt of documents
Mr H also argues that he didnt receive his documents until much later after 
purchase, so he says the 14-day cooling off period shouldnt start until a later point 
than it did. However, after purchase, Mr H was able to access his documents online 
via the customer portal, so he had access to them at that point. This is also how Mr H 
accessed policy information to provide documents to this service, so Im satisfied he 
was able to access the portal.
Service and compensation
Our investigator also said that it was unreasonable for One Call to demand a 
payment of £88.65 in their final response letter, as this was a typo, and it was 
actually £49.65. However, the final response also confirmed:
The balance will be placed on hold whilst this is ongoing
Therefore, whilst the amount outlined was incorrect, there wasnt a demand for 
payment at that stage and whilst the dispute was ongoing.Our investigator said One Call should compensate Mr H £100 for the service 
received and the demand for the incorrect payment amount. However, for the 
reasons outlined above, I dont think One Call treated Mr H unfairly, or that he 
suffered any detriment due to a letter rather than email being sent. So, Im not 
minded to direct One Call to pay compensation or do anything further.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or to direct One Call to do anything 
further.
The responses to the provisional decision
One Call didnt respond by the deadline outlined in the provisional decision.
Mr H responded, but he didnt agree. In summary, he said:
The provisional decision lacked detailed analysis
He cancelled the policy during the webchat on 21 December 2022
He didnt receive the cancellation letter as it was sent via post rather than email
One Call alleging there was two claims hasnt been investigated sufficiently
There is no phone number available in the documents or online
The letter informing Mr H of the additional premium was sent via post, rather than 
email
One Call has breached various Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles
He was provided with a formal complaint response which said to either pay the final 
demand or take the complaint to this service
One Call attempted to defraud him
The investigators outcome and redress were accurate, whereas the ombudsmans 
provisional decision is misconceived
Mr H has provided new material evidence which includes proof he took out a new 
policy on 24 December 2022 and One Call cancelled his policy on 29 December, 
therefore there was an overlap
There wasnt a typo by One Call in their outstanding balance request, instead it was 
an attempt to defraud Mr H
The ombudsman hasnt followed the relevant rules to consider what is fair and 
reasonable 
The original award of £100 compensation recommended by the investigator is now 
insufficient as Mr H has had to give further input into his complaint, therefore this 
should be increased to £200
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr H, my final 
decision remains the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Firstly, I note Mr H says I havent followed the relevant rules and remit of this service to 
consider what is fair and reasonable. However, I respectfully disagree with Mr H here. Whilst 
my view of Mr Hs complaint differs to his, this doesnt mean I havent considered what, in 
my opinion, is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied my provisional decision and final decision 
have taken into account what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case and explained what, and why, this is.Whilst I also note Mr H says I havent commented on every point hes made, I have focussed 
on what I believe is most relevant when reaching my provisional and final decision on what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I also note Mr H says One Call hasnt complied 
with various FCA principles, but I dont think theyve acted unfairly for the reasons Ive 
explained.
Mr H says not enough investigation has been carried out into One Call saying he had made 
two claims, rather than one. One Call outlined to Mr H in their final response letter details 
about the claim from 2021 that wasnt declared by him on his policy when he took it out. This 
was then added by One Call, which created an additional premium and Mr H was written to 
about this. One Call isnt responsible for what data is recorded on the database, and I dont 
think One Call acted unreasonably by adding a claim that Mr H hadnt disclosed when taking 
out the policy based, based on the information they discovered on the claims database. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision, if One Call had emailed Mr H rather than sending a 
letter advising of the increased premium, he may have received this before the 14-day 
cooling off period expired. But I also explained in my provisional decision that, regardless of 
whether that was the case or not, the ultimate fees for cancelling the policy pre and post 14 
days wouldve been the same amount, just made up of slightly different fees. So, I dont think 
this caused any detriment to Mr H.
Whilst Mr H says that he cancelled his policy during a webchat on 21 December 2022, I 
explained why cancellation didnt go ahead on that date. And instead, Mr H cancelled his 
direct debit, which the agent had already told him wasnt sufficient to cancel the policy. This 
then later resulted in One Call cancelling the policy on 7 January 2023 after notifying Mr H of 
this beforehand. So, it wasnt cancelled on 21 or 29 December 2022 as Mr H says. 
Mr H has also provided what he says is new material evidence showing he purchased a 
policy elsewhere. This is dated 24 December 2022. He also says he sent a recorded letter 
dated 21 December 2022 following up his web chat, requesting formal cancellation. But in 
any event, this would have been sent, and the new policy was taken out, after the 14-day 
cancellation period. And regardless of whether the policy was cancelled before or after the 
14-day period, the fees would have been the same either way (for slightly different reasons) 
as outlined in my provisional decision.
So, either way, the actual fees would be the same. The only difference this might make is 
the time on risk charge, but as the new policy documents are new material information 
showing when Mr H actually insured elsewhere, he would need to submit this to One Call for 
consideration in the first instance. If after One Call has considered this, and if Mr H remains 
unhappy with whatever answer they ultimately give, hed need to refer a new separate 
complaint to this service in line with our usual rules and timescales.
Mr H also says that the request for payment of £88.65 rather than £49.65 after cancellation 
wasnt a typo by One Call, but instead was an attempt to defraud him. I havent seen any 
evidence which supports One Call was deliberately trying to defraud Mr H as he alleges, 
rather than they simply made a typo. One Call did however recognise that Mr H was 
unhappy with things, and they removed the £55.99 cancellation fee and £39 broker fee, 
significantly reducing the actual correct outstanding amount due.
Mr H maintains that One Call made a final demand for payment. He says that they issued a 
complaint response which demanded it. My view on this point remains the same as in my 
provisional decision, the final response clearly outlined the balance will be placed on hold 
whilst this is ongoing, so I dont agree this was a final demand for payment. I also note Mr H says there isnt a telephone number for One Call. However, there are 
several numbers to more generally reach One Call in the policy terms and conditions, albeit 
Mr H might have needed to be transferred to the relevant department. And an internet 
search does also provide telephone numbers too. Mr H was also aware he could use the 
chat function as that is how he did contact One Call. 
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think One Call has treated Mr H unfairly, so Im not 
going to direct them to compensate Mr H or do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman