DRN-4400418
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about Mrs Bs let property insurer AXA insurance UK Plc in 
relation to a claim she made after the property she owns was damaged when persons 
unknown attempted to convert it into a cannabis factory.
What happened
Mrs B owns a property which she insures with AXA. The property was let to tenants in 
November 2021 by virtue of a tenancy agreement between the tenant and Mr B. Rent was 
agreed but never received. In January 2022 the letting agent visited the property and found 
the conversion work. A damage claim was made to AXA which it accepted.
There were reportedly some initial delays with the claim  which AXA responded to in a final 
response letter dated 13 May 2022. The claim continued and by this time AXA was also 
considering a loss of rent claim. AXA agreed to make interim payments of loss of rent. In 
May and August 2022 it paid two sums totalling £32,400, equating to nine months lost rent. 
As AXAs claim review continued it began to question the loss of rent and also became 
concerned that not all the damage at the property had been caused by the conversion, also 
that the property was largely under insured. 
AXA noted the property was insured for a reinstatement, or rebuild, sum of £408,000, but its 
loss adjuster said that would more likely cost £1.1 million (being a large 3 storey property, 
plus cellar). AXA felt it had some liability for the damage claim, but that this was reasonably 
limited given the non-incident related damage and the underinsurance. Regarding loss of 
rent, AXA noted the tenancy agreement was not in Mrs Bs name. It said it would pay 
nothing further and it would attribute the previous payment made for lost rent to the buildings 
damage claim. AXA, giving some benefit of doubt to Mrs B regarding some repairs, felt the 
total cost for repair of the conversion damage was £91,316 plus VAT. Noting the rebuild 
values, it said Mrs B had only been 37% insured and applying that to the reinstatement cost, 
gave it liability for £40,659.55. To that sum AXA applied the payments made previously for 
lost rent (£32,400), deducting them, leaving a total of £8,259.55. It said this was what it 
would pay to Mrs B in settlement of her buildings damage claim. Mr and Mrs B were 
unhappy and complained.  
Mr and Mrs B felt the rebuild value used by AXA was flawed, and presented their own. They 
also felt AXA had taken too long to answer their claim  its settlement offer and explanation 
only coming in January 2023. AXA, for its part, accepted there had been some delays. It 
apologised and paid a total of £500 compensation. It wasnt minded to change its view on 
the loss of rent issue, under insurance or what it would pay in settlement of the damage 
claim. Although it did advise Mr and Mrs B that if they presented a detailed, rebuild cost, that 
would be considered. Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt there was no provision for loss of rent on the policy and that AXA had 
not been unfair when applying an average of 37% to the claim settlement. He felt the 
compensation AXA had paid for upset caused by delays was fair.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy. They pointed out AXA had paid the loss of rent claim initially. 
They noted AXA had used certain industry standards to calculate the rebuild cost, but that 
the policy doesnt say only these standards can be used. Mr and Mrs B said their surveyor 
had put the rebuild cost (£450,000 to £550,000) and this hadnt been mentioned by our 
Investigator. Finally they felt that the compensation paid didnt fairly reflect the more than 
twelve month period of delays caused by AXA. 
Our Investigator provided some further clarification to Mr and Mrs B. And they provided 
further evidence from their surveyor regarding his rebuild calculation. This was shared with 
AXA. AXA maintained that its value most accurately reflected the likely rebuild value for the 
property. The complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I was minded to uphold the complaint in part, regarding loss of rent. But I was also mindful 
that I couldnt reasonably take into account any upset Mr B had been caused. So I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my views to both parties. My provisional findings were:
Mr B
Mr B does not own the house and is not named on the policy of insurance with AXA. 
However, he is in place as the landlord of the property, which Mrs B owns. And the policy 
does offer cover for loss of rent. So, arguably, I can see that Mrs B likely believed the policy 
was taken out for Mr Bs benefit as well as her own. But Mr B is not AXAs customer and 
according to the policy terms, the policy isnt actually there to benefit him. That is because 
the policy offers loss of rent cover to the policyholder only, which is Mrs B. So whilst Mrs B 
believed the policy was for Mr Bs benefit as well as hers, she was wrong in that respect. 
And as AXA has no link to providing a benefit to Mr B, I cant reasonably find it liable for any 
upset Mr B has suffered on account of any failings by AXA during this claim.
Loss of rent
As Ive noted above, the policy does not cover Mr Bs interests as landlord. Rather it offers to 
pay its policyholder rent theyve lost. As Mrs B was not owed rent by the tenants, because 
she was not the landlord, strictly speaking, she has no loss for AXA to cover. In that respect 
I can see why AXA wouldnt have wanted to pay a loss of rent claim. 
The problem for AXA though is that that is exactly what it did  whilst having the benefit of 
both the knowledge of the scope of the policy and the tenancy agreement naming Mr B as 
landlord. It made payments whilst knowing all of that in May and August 2022. It then noted 
in August that Mr B was the landlord and began to have concerns about settling the claim. 
But it was January 2023 before it came to its final view in this respect and shared that detail 
with Mrs B. At that time it was satisfied it had made a mistake in paying that sum and 
explained it had decided to off-set the payment against the outstanding damage claim 
settlement. Maybe if AXA had done that sooner that might have been seen as not 
unreasonable. However, Mrs B accepted the money paid by AXA in good faith and used the 
sum to pay for necessary bills  bills which shes explained are otherwise usually covered by 
the rental income from the property. So I think AXA acted unfairly when it looked to recoup 
that mistaken outlay from Mrs B by off-setting the sum of £32,400 from the damage claim 
settlement. When it settles the claim (the circa £8,000 offered has not, as I understand it, yet 
been paid) it will not be able to make a deduction for the loss of rent outlay.
I know Mr and Mrs B would like further payments to be made by AXA regarding rent lost 
during the remainder of 2022 and since. But, as I noted at the start of this section, Mrs B is 
the policyholder but not the landlord of the property. The policy offers to pay Mrs B for any 
rental income she loses, where her business is affected by damage covered under the 
policy. And Mrs B, because she is not the landlord, has not suffered any effect on her business causing lost rental income. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to make AXA make 
further payments to Mrs B to account for rental income Mr B lost.
Under insurance
Mrs Bs policy incudes a declared value for the property. The policy defines declared value 
as Your assessment of the cost of reinstatement of the buildings. The terms of the policy 
also say that if the declared value stated on the policy is less than the reinstatement (rebuild) 
sum, any claim will be settled proportionately in line with that percentage shortfall. So if a 
policy has a declared value of £50,000 but it would cost £100,000 to rebuild it, then any 
claim would be settled at 50% of the repair cost. Thats not an unreasonable term and its 
common to many policies like this one. So if AXA can show that the declared value on 
Mrs Bs policy fell short of the rebuild sum, it can fairly settle the claim proportionately.
The declared value set out on Mrs Bs policy was £408,157. AXA says the rebuild cost is 
£1.1 million. Mr B has presented two documents from a surveyor disputing AXAs sum. So 
Ive compared the evidence from both parties.
AXAs sum is based on certain industry standard costs. Its not unreasonable for it to have 
used those and they, in my experience, are the most common set of costs used. I bear in 
mind though that Mr Bs surveyor has said they can sometimes provide skewed data as they 
are based on large contractor costs  so might not reflect the savings available of using 
local, independent contractors. But, having noted this argument, I dont think any further 
discussion of the issue of contractor costings is necessary here for me to determine which 
valuation can fairly be relied upon as a reasonable declared value for Mrs Bs property. 
I note this is a substantial property, comprising a cellar and three main living floors, which in 
turn comprise five reception rooms, thirteen bedrooms and five bathrooms. When Mr Bs 
surveyor first gave a rebuild sum for the property, he estimated the propertys area to be 
320-350m2. He did not make reference to there being a cellar. Whilst talking about the 
propertys area in metres, he referred to using a sum of £140 per square foot to create an 
estimated cost for the reconstruction of the dwelling of £450,00 to £550,000. I think mixing 
the forms of measurement is not helpful, and its unusual for a valuation like to this be so 
generic  not giving any detail of room sizes, or any breakdown for the cost. Nor any costs 
for outside areas. So I can see why AXA wasnt minded to think this should reasonably 
change its view on underinsurance.
An update from that surveyor was provided. The surveyor explained that only estimated 
measurements were used initially  but it was accepted that 470m2 is an accurate measure 
for the propertys area. The update shows costs for the cellar are included. Provisional sums 
are detailed for the kitchen and bathrooms  with the cost for reinstating each bathroom 
being provisionally set at £5,000. The total for rebuilding the house is given as £508,500. 
The valuation suggests that external areas of the property wouldnt ever need to be rebuilt  
but in the instance that is necessary a flat sum of £150,000 is allowed for them. Giving an 
overall rebuild value of £658,500. With an added contingency of three percent, which is 
nearly £20,000. Even taking this at face value  Mrs Bs declared value was some £408,000 
which is around £270,000 less than that set out by Mr Bs surveyor.
I also struggle to see how an estimated maximum of £550,000 for rebuild of the house alone, 
based on the propertys area being, at most, 350m2 becomes a definite value of £508,500 
when using the significantly larger figure of 470m2 for the area. The sums allowed for the 
bathrooms also seem low to me and there is no breakdown given for all of the outside 
elements of the property which are given a blanket value of £150,000. The valuation does 
not give any detail as to things like the cost of debris removal, professional fees or VAT. 
Both of which the policy says should form part of the declared value. Turning to AXAs valuation; this records the area of the main property as 473m2, and adds 
the floor area  40m2  for the cellar. So this would also make me question how Mr Bs 
surveyor could include the cellar in the second valuation, but generate a value which is less 
than that given in the first valuation (based on a much smaller area size). Especially when 
noting the £150,000 for exterior costs. AXAs valuation, as mentioned, was based on an 
industry standard calculation. The values used as part of that calculation, as I understand it, 
factor in costs such as demolition and professional fees which are subject to VAT. On 
balance, particularly given the concerns Ive highlighted with Mr Bs surveyors valuation, 
I find Im more persuaded by this valuation from AXA.
AXAs valuation shows the reasonable declared value for Mrs Bs property as £1,110,000, 
with the declared value on the policy being £408,157. The policy declared value then is 37% 
of what it should be. Given the policy terms I find it fair and reasonable for AXA to have 
applied that percentage against its claim settlement.
Damage reinstatement cost
Mr B has obtained several costs to reinstate the property. One of which was £103,630, and 
not subject to VAT. AXA said it had calculated what was needed for reinstating the property 
in respect of likely damage caused by the alterations it was covering under the policy. It felt 
the reasonable sum in that respect was £91,316 plus VAT. It felt the property had likely been 
in a dilapidated state before the alterations. AXA noted that was somewhat of a subjective 
view  but felt it was supported by photos of the property. 
Ive reviewed the photos and note that AXA has accepted that the view regarding 
dilapidation is subjective. And whilst it says it thinks that is supported by photos, it hasnt 
said what dilapidations are shown in the photos. Which, to me, adds, a further degree of 
subjectivity, rather than substantiating the reasonableness of the view. 
I note there are some photos with some descriptions. One shows some peeling paint and a 
little mould around a window and refers to some bathrooms being in a poor pre-loss state. 
But there is also a photo of one bathroom which seems in good condition. I dont see any 
rooms which are, for example, plagued with mould or show dcor in general disrepair. I dont 
see any holes in the roof, or water damage, and all the windows at the property appear to be 
intact. Im not persuaded from this that the property was dilapidated. 
Even were I persuaded in that respect, AXA could only reasonably make deductions for 
dilapidations if it could differentiate between dilapidation damage and tenants damage. And 
I note that in a further report one of AXAs loss adjusters notes that differentiating between 
the types of damage would be difficult. I note AXA has then determined the cost for 
reinstating the tenants damage, with some benefit of doubt factored in, but it hasnt 
explained how its been able to do that. Or even clearly stated what it is discounting as 
dilapidation damage. So Im not persuaded that AXA has reasonably shown its cost for 
reinstatement of £91,316, plus VAT, before any deductions for underinsurance is applied, is 
fair and reasonable.
However, the sum of £103,630, is only representative of one of the estimates presented by 
Mr B to AXA. He also presented two others which are significantly lower, less even than 
AXAs figure  £75,000 and £87,250, both of which AXA says are subject to VAT. Usually 
when a policyholder presents estimates an insurer will pay in-line with the one returning the 
lowest price (where there is no dispute about the work detailed). And well often find that is 
fair. So even if Mr Bs estimates contain more work than AXAs sum, because AXAs sum is 
unfairly limited due to it making deductions for dilapidations, I cant reasonably make it adjust 
its sum upwards. In short, the sum used by AXA is well within the range of prices Mr B has asked it to base its claim settlement on, and actually exceeds the average of those costs. 
Therefore, whilst I have concerns as stated, about the methodology of how AXA came to a 
figure of £91,316 plus VAT  taking everything into account, I do think thats a fair sum to 
base its claim settlement on.
To settle the claim
As stated, Im satisfied that £91,316 plus VAT is a fair and reasonable base for the claim 
settlement. Im also satisfied, as also explained, that AXA can apply an average calculation 
to that figure. Doing so gives a sum of £40,659.55. Ive explained above that AXA cant fairly 
and reasonably deduct from that in order to recoup the loss of rent payment it made. And 
whilst it previously offered the reduced sum of £8,259.55, I understand this was never paid. 
So that means AXA should now pay Mrs B £40,659.55, plus interest applied from the date of 
loss until settlement is made. In the instance that the reduced sum was paid to Mrs B, AXA 
should pay an amount equivalent to interest on the total sum from the date of loss until the 
reduced amount was paid, along with interest applied on the difference outstanding from that 
date until that outstanding sum is paid.
Claim handling
I think this claim has been very protracted. I think it would always have taken a fair while to 
progress given some of the complexities involved. For example, there was a possibility at the 
outset that the property might have been used as a house of multiple occupancy but that 
AXA hadnt been advised of that. I think AXA reasonably needed to investigate that, and 
I can see that might have taken a little while to consider. But having reviewed both AXAs 
and its loss adjusters file I cant see any real justification for AXAs claim decision to have 
continued to be so protracted beyond May and June 2022, by which point it had not only 
reviewed the tenancy agreement but also obtained its rebuild valuation. I think it should have 
taken no more than a few months at that point, for a carefully managed claim to have 
progressed to decision, and I say that even allowing for legal advice to be sought.
Mrs B then has suffered through about six months of delay. I accept that would be 
frustrating. I also think AXAs unreasonably low settlement offer was a cause for worry for 
Mrs B. But whilst saying that I bear in mind that she was upset not just about the deduction 
made for lost rent, but also regarding the reinstatement cost and the adjustment for 
underinsurance  both of which Ive found were fair and reasonable. AXA has paid £500 
compensation for upset caused during this period. Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable 
and in line with the guidance used by the service. I dont intend to make it pay anything more 
in this respect.
Mr and Mrs B said they were generally happy with my findings. But said they felt, regarding 
the property valuation, there was no good reason to prefer one of the expert reports over the 
other. So they asked I review my findings to perhaps use the values from both reports to 
create a mean figure to factor into the reasonable repair calculation. Mr B said theres a lot of 
debate about how far a policyholder can go to provide an accurate rebuild cost when 
arranging insurance.
AXA said it was dissatisfied with my view that it was not entitled to off-set the loss of rent 
payment against the settlement for repair of the property. It asked to see the proof presented 
by Mr and Mrs B to show the money it had paid had been spent (which were shared with it). 
AXA said that as I accepted that the strict interpretation of the policy wording did not afford 
Mrs B the benefit of the sums, it would seem unfair for her to be able to keep them  that to 
allow that punishes it for it making payments in good faith whilst its claim enquiries were 
ongoing. It said it had made the loss of rent payments only because it had been told rent had been received from the tenants, which it later found out was not the case. AXA said it would 
hesitate in the future in making payments until all its enquiries were complete.
AXA further argued that the loss of rent payments were credited to Mrs Bs account without 
any reference to them being for loss of rent. It said that whilst it sent letters confirming 
payments had been made, to Mrs B and her broker (who was pursuing the claim on her 
behalf) the content of the letters did not attribute the money to any particular aspect of the 
claim. It said that as no rent had been paid by these tenants, and it hadnt seen income 
coming in before this tenancy  Mrs B couldnt reasonably have expected to use rental 
income to pay bills. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Bs concern about what can reasonably be done when a policy is arranged. But 
this decision focuses on the claim that has occurred during the life of the policy and the 
terms which apply affecting AXAs reasonable settlement of the same.
I also note that Mr and Mrs B think there is no good reason to prefer one of the expert 
reports over the other. But I explained provisionally why I felt AXAs experts report was most 
persuasive. I remain of the view it was fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on those findings, 
therefore, concluding the property was underinsured and settling the claim pro-rata based on 
the valuation returned by its expert. 
I can understand AXAs concern regarding payments made in good faith. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service certainly encourages insurers to act pragmatically and fairly during the 
course of claims. But here, and regardless of what AXA was told about rent having been 
received before the loss, AXA had the tenancy agreement to hand, in fact had reviewed it 
when the decision was made to pay Mrs B in accordance with a loss of rent claim. And whilst 
the bank payment and letters sent may not have specified under what head of claim the 
payment was being made  the emails between the loss adjuster and Mrs Bs broker were 
very specific in that respect. As such I think it was reasonable for Mrs B to think AXA had 
considered, accepted and settled, on an interim basis, her loss of rent claim. Shes satisfied 
me that those sums were then spent. I remain of the view it was then unfair and 
unreasonable for AXA to seek to off-set that settlement.
Having considered the replies from the parties to my provisional decision, Ive not been 
persuaded to change my views already stated. My provisional findings, along with my further 
comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mrs B:
£40,659.55^, plus interest* applied from the date of loss until settlement is made. 
^Unless part of this sum has been paid already, in which case the difference remaining will 
need to be paid, along with payments made to account for interest applied to each sum. The 
parties should advise in response to this provisional decision whether its believed the whole 
or a part amount should be paid.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman