DRN-2332890
The complaint
 Mr W has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with an unaffordable
loan. He says the proper affordability checks werent considered.
What happened
  L2G provided Mr W with a loan of £300 in September 2019. This loan had an APR of 
1013.3% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1234.26 
was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £68.57.
Mr W complains that at the time of taking out the loan with L2G, he was in serious 
financial difficulty. He thinks L2G should have seen this in its credit search and should 
have then carried out further checks. Mr W says if it had done, it wouldnt have given him 
the loan. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G disagreed with 
our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
And Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching 
questions that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ws 
complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr W would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
2. did it make a fair lending decision?
3. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit 
is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr W declared that he was 
earning £1,750.00 a month and had expenditure of £600 a month. L2G checks suggested 
his income was a minimum of £1,529.99 a month and his expenditure £1439.32 based 
what it saw on his credit file. This figure also included a 10% buffer that L2G added. This 
left Mr W with around £90 a month which L2G say was more than enough to cover the 
monthly payments of £68.57 to this loan.
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said about how it calculated Mr Ws disposable 
income. Ive also looked at the credit check it carried out. I can see on this check that there 
were missed payments on some accounts leading up to this application. In particular, one 
loan that Mr W held showed 6 payments in arrears. This coupled with L2G not being 
confident in the income and expenditure information Mr W provided, such that it adjusted 
the figures, all lead me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Ws actual 
monthly expenditure. L2G shouldnt accept an application which it knows or has 
reasonable cause to suspect the consumer hasnt been truthful so in this case I think it 
should have carried out further checks.As I cant see that L2G did verify Mr Ws expenditure, I dont think that the checks it carried 
out before providing Mr W with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. But, without looking into what 
proportionate checks might have shown, I think the lender didnt make a fair decision 
based on what it already knew. The credit file the lender provided shows Mr W had 
almost £18,000 of existing debt, with monthly repayments of about £451 not including any 
payments to his three live credit cards and Mr W was using all of his available credit on 
them. He is also in arrears with an account. So, I think it would have been clear to L2G 
that he wasnt managing his existing debt at that time, with payments representing around 
a quarter of his monthly income. I think it was unlikely that Mr W could repay the loan 
sustainably/without experiencing adverse consequences and agreeing further credit was 
just going to add to his indebtedness. And, as it happened, he made no repayments apart 
from a few token amounts.
Mr W would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing 
further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in these circumstances, I dont think L2G 
should have agreed the loan, with the information in front of it.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Mr W and L2G have communicated on a number of occasions about repayment of the 
loan. Mr W missed the first repayment date and from that point the parties have emailed 
each other to discuss this and also to establish a payment plan. I have read this 
correspondence and agree with the adjudicator, that L2Gs actions seem on the whole, not 
unreasonable, when it has communicated with him after it agreed the loan. I can see that it 
hasnt added any additional charges or interest to Mr Ws account and hasnt proceeded 
with any legal action, once it was made aware that Mr Ws complaint had been referred to 
our service. 
So in conclusion, Ive not seen anything to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr W in some other way. 
Did Mr W lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr W has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
L2G did wrong.
So, I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Putting things right
  Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr W by:
removing the interest and charges added to the loan, leaving only the capital 
amount left for Mr W to pay. It should also subtract the amounts paid by Mr W from 
the capital amount, leaving an outstanding amount left to pay;
agreeing a repayment plan that is affordable for Mr W for the remaining 
balanced owed;removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of 
this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr 
W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman