DRN-1232696
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr P was given one loan by Mr Lender in August 2012. He borrowed £400 and was due to 
repay it 12 days later. Mr P wasn't able to repay the loan as planned and so needed to 
defer (rollover) his repayment on four separate occasions by paying some additional interest. 
After the fourth rollover Mr P told Mr Lender that he was facing some financial difficulties. 
The lender then stopped adding interest to the loan and allowed Mr P to make affordable 
repayments over an extended period. After Mr Lender reduced his balance by just over £70 
in March 2014, Mr P finally repaid his borrowing.
Mr P's complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Although he didn't 
think Mr Lender had been wrong to give the loan to Mr P, he didn't think it had been 
reasonable to allow him to roll the loan over on the fourth occasion. So he asked Mr Lender 
to pay Mr P some compensation.
Mr Lender didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr P accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr Lender did some checks before it lent to Mr P. It asked him for details of his income, and 
verified his employment. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Mr Lender.
I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. The 
amount that Mr P needed to repay was relatively small compared with the income hed 
declared. Given this repayment amount, what was apparent about Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time, and that this was his first loan from the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the loan. 
Mr P was unable to repay his loan as planned, so Mr Lender allowed him to defer his 
repayment by a month by paying some additional interest. As I've noted above this 
happened on four successive occasions.
In 2012, when Mr P took the loan and asked to defer his repayments, there was no 
regulation about the number of times a consumer should be allowed to rollover some lending 
- that was introduced in 2014. But in early 2012 some best practice was beginning to emerge 
that a maximum of three rollovers should be permitted. And by the time of the fourth rollover 
in November 2012 that guidance had become mandatory for members of some lending trade 
bodies. So I think it would be reasonable for me to conclude a maximum of three rollovers 
might be considered good industry practice by that time.
Repeated rollovers is likely to be a good indicator that a consumer is facing serious 
problems managing their finances. And in fact that is exactly the situation that Mr P found 
himself in, and something he discussed with Mr Lender shortly afterwards. I think it would 
have been reasonable to expect Mr Lender to have initiated that conversation at the 
time Mr P asked for the fourth rollover. And had it done so, I think it could have acted more 
quickly in extending assistance to Mr P, rather than simply charging him a further month's 
interest.
For completeness here I should note that I think Mr Lender did treat Mr P positively and 
sympathetically when it became aware of his financial problems after the fourth rollover. And 
so I'm not making any findings that it should have done more at that time. But I think it 
should have discovered those problems earlier, and not agreed to give Mr P the final 
rollover. So Mr Lender needs to pay Mr P some compensation.
 
 
Putting things rightI don't think that Mr Lender should have agreed to give the final rollover to Mr P. It didn't 
charge him any further interest after that point, so Mr Lender needs to refund the £120 it 
charged Mr P in respect of the final rollover. But I have also noted that Mr Lender 
discounted Mr Ps final repayment by £70.66. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to 
reduce the amount it needs to refund to Mr P to take that refund into account.
So Mr Lender needs to pay Mr P the sum of £49.34. It should add interest to that amount at 
a rate of 8% simple a year from when Mr P repaid the principal he had borrowed, and the 
interest from the initial loan and first three rollovers. I calculate that date is 25 March 2014. 
Interest should be paid from this date until the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs 
requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give Mr P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited to 
put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman