DRN-1574041
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given incorrect information by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) when he asked about money and balance transfers. 
What happened
Mr B has a credit card with Halifax. On 15 October 2019 Mr B completed a money transfer 
request online but it was declined. Mr B called Halifax and spoke with a number of people 
and was advised the money transfer couldnt proceed. He was also given incorrect advice 
about how the balance transfer process worked. 
On 23 October 2019 Mr B called Halifax after he tried to complete balance transfer. Halifax 
advised the balance transfer was subject to checks and had been declined. Mr B complained 
and Halifax responded on 24 October 2019. Halifax apologised that Mr B had been given the 
wrong information and paid him £89. But Halifax didnt accept that the decision to decline the 
balance transfer was wrong. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and said that, as a result of the incorrect 
information provided by Halifax, he committed to purchasing a motorbike via a hire purchase 
agreement. Mr B says, as a result of the incorrect information he was given, he will now 
have to pay around £500 in interest. Our investigator didnt ask Halifax to take any further 
action and Mr B asked to appeal. In his response, Mr B asked wider questions about 
affordability and how Halifax lends to credit card customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has asked for explanations of how Halifax approaches lending more 
generally and whether its a responsible lender. I note Mr Bs comments. But our remit allows 
us to investigate and make decisions in relation to specific complaints. Its not our role to 
give wider context to a business actions or say whether its a responsible lender in a general 
sense. Ive restricted my decision and comments to Halifaxs actions in relation to the money 
transfer and balance transfer Mr B tried to complete, which is the focus of his complaint. 
Ive listened to all the available calls from 15 October 2019 and 23 October 2019. I can see 
Halifax has already accepted that Mr B was given the wrong information when he called. As 
Halifax has accepted Mr B was given the wrong information, I need to decide whether its 
offer to resolve his complaint fairly reflects the impact of that mistake. 
Mr B says he decided to purchase a motorbike based on the incorrect information provided 
by Halifax. I accept Halifax did provide the wrong information, but the calls I listened to from 
15 October 2019 show Mr B was told the money transfer wasnt an option, after his request 
was declined. Mr B says he was told he could complete a balance transfer without any 
eligibility checks being completed and proceeded on that basis. But that was incorrect. 
Ive listened to Mr Bs call on 23 October 2019, after his online application for a balance 
transfer was declined. Halifax confirmed that the balance transfer was declined due to Mr Bs 
credit score and couldnt proceed. Mr B was then transferred to the complaints team. Whilst I 
understand Mr B was upset by being advised his balance transfer had been declined, he 
was given the correct information during that call. 
I can see Mr B signed the hire purchase agreement on 23 October 2019, the same day he 
was declined for a balance transfer. Mr Bs options after the balance transfer was declined 
appear to have been to proceed with the hire purchase (and pay interest over the term), or 
lose his deposit of £250 (as shown on the hire purchase agreement hes sent us). Whilst I 
understand why Mr B may have been unwilling to walk away from the purchase, Im satisfied 
he was aware Halifax wasnt going to approve a money transfer or balance transfer when he 
decided to proceed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied that Halifax has dealt with his complaint fairly. I 
agree Halifax did provide incorrect information, but Im not persuaded that Mr Bs purchase 
of a motorbike was solely based on obtaining interest free credit from Halifax or that it would 
be fair to tell it to cover his interest costs. 
I agree that the service was poor and that Halifax gave Mr B the wrong information. Halifax 
apologised to Mr B and paid him £89. Ive considered how the issue affected Mr B. Im 
satisfied £89 fairly reflects the impact of Halifaxs error on Mr B so Im not telling it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman