DRN-3229209
The complaint
Mr G complains that eToro (UK) Ltd breached his rights by removing the ability to open a 
short position.
What happened
Mr G had a trading account with eToro. On 14 April 2021, Mr G wanted to open a short 
position  that is he wanted to open a position to sell stock in Coinbase Global Inc (COIN). 
The position he entered into was to purchase COIN. Mr G complained as he said this was an 
error caused by eToro removing the sell option on its platform for this asset. He felt this 
was a breach of his rights and brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They explained that it was Mr Gs responsibility 
to ensure the trade he was making was the right one for him. They said eToro had acted in 
line with its terms when the option to sell wasnt available. They also explained that eToro 
had notified Mr G  and other users  that the asset was available for buy only.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said he hadnt 
received the terms and conditions, he doesnt accept eToros reasoning for not having the 
sell option available and referenced a US court case. Mr G also said that if he had sole 
responsibility for his trades, eToro shouldnt be allowed to close his positions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the issue here is that Mr G entered into a position in error.  I believe him when 
he says his intention was to sell, and go short of COIN. But Im satisfied he did in fact click 
the buy instruction and ended up buying COIN. I dont think thats eToros fault. 
Mr G has said that he feels the sell button shouldnt have been removed, and has made 
some additional points in response to our Investigators view that Ill address for 
completeness. 
Mr G says he didnt receive a copy of eToros terms that its relying on. Ive seen a 
screenshot which Im persuaded shows Mr G accepted those terms on 2 September 2020. 
So, I think he had the opportunity to read them prior to making this trade. These terms allow 
eToro to amend its trading functions during Exceptional Events. In these terms it explains 
that where there is a liquidity issue, it may limit the availability of instructions that you can 
give in respect of an order or trade.  This can be found in section 29 of the terms. Im 
satisfied that eToro was permitted to have a buy only function for the particular asset Mr G 
opened a position in.
On 14 April 2021, COIN had just been added on to the platform some four minutes before 
Mr G placed his order. It had only opened on the exchange for trading five minutes before 
Mr G placed his order. This was part of an Initial Public Offering (IPO) so Im satisfied that 
eToro was being reasonable in saying there was a liquidity issue. eToros asset page for 
COIN highlighted that it was a direct listing and crucially that trading availability will initially 
be only for BUY direction with no leverage. Im satisfied eToro had provided sufficient 
information for Mr G to be aware that he couldnt sell  not least because the ability to sell in 
this asset was disabled. Mr Gs trade was opened because he gave the instruction to buy. 
Mr G has said he didnt read the notice eToro posted about COIN on the asset page, but this 
isnt the fault of eToro. Mr G is responsible for ensuring he understands the relevant 
information provided to him before he places a trade.
Mr G has questioned why eToro was able to close his positions if he has sole responsibility 
for his trades. Im not considering eToros decision to close Mr Gs accounts as part of this 
decision as its not formed part of the complaint. I will say there are circumstances where 
platform providers can choose to end relationships and that may result in closing positions. 
But fundamentally, as an execution only platform, Mr G is responsible for the trades he 
makes. And this trade is no different. Mr G made a trade in error  but this was his error. He 
clicked to buy COIN, and from screenshots Ive seen of how eToros platform works, Im 
persuaded it wouldve been clear that Mr Gs action was to buy and not to sell.
Ive noted that Mr G has submitted a link to a US court case, however I do not find that 
relevant to these particular circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman