DRN-3147734
The complaint
Mr H complains that, as a non-UK resident, hes no longer able to invest in UK-authorised 
funds through Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL). He considers this to 
be discriminatory and feels that HL should reduce its charges to reflect the change.
What happened
HL didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It explained that due to the UK leaving the EU in 2020, 
the UCITS status of UK-based funds changed as of 1 January 2021. UCITS  Undertakings 
for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities  is the regulatory framework that 
allows for the sale of cross-Europe mutual funds.
The 2021 change meant that UK-based funds authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
no longer qualify as UCITS funds and therefore can no longer be passported into the EU. 
HL explained that this had impacted all businesses and was a change in legislation that fell 
outside its control and on which it was obliged to act. It highlighted that the change had not 
required Mr H to sell any existing holdings. Rather, it restricted what he was able to 
purchase going forward.
HL noted that its terms provided for making such changes to its service. And in respect of its 
charges, it explained that these were based on the value of a clients holdings rather than 
what funds are available to them to purchase. As the value of Mr Hs holdings had not been 
impacted by the change, he was being charged correctly. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
view as HL. He said, in brief:
HL had correctly and clearly explained why the change had been required.
The account terms provided for circumstances where HLs service might be affected 
by regulatory changes, and that not all services might be available if an account 
holder was resident outside the UK. Further, there was nothing that said HL was 
required to change its charges because of any related changes.
HL fees are charged as a percentage of the value of holdings, and Mr H was able to 
continue with his existing holdings.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief:
Regardless of the legality of the change in HLs service, he was still paying the same 
for a reduced service compared to that offered to customers based in the UK. This is 
discriminatory.
HL could have communicated the change via targeted communications rather than 
leaving affected account holders to find out by chance. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I dont think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
In respect of the change that HL had to implement, I think its position is correct and has 
been clearly explained to Mr H. And it appears that he accepts that the changes prompted 
by the UK leaving the EU meant HL was required to stop offering relevant funds to its 
customers outside the UK, as were other UK businesses providing similar services. 
What is still in dispute is whether its fair and reasonable for HL to continue charging Mr H 
the same for the service it provides to him, given the change and that hes now restricted in 
what funds he can purchase. 
As noted, HLs terms provide for changes to be made to its service and that it may not be 
able to offer all its services to customers outside the UK. And theres nothing to indicate that 
a change in the service for any reasons will lead to a reduction in the cost. I note what Mr H 
has said about not necessarily always reading the terms in detail. But they do nevertheless 
govern the parameters of the service and its reasonable for HL to rely upon then. 
In respect of Mr H being discriminated against, Ive seen nothing to suggest that hes been 
treated any differently to anyone in similar circumstances. The way in which hes charged is 
based upon the amount he has invested with HL  a percentage of the value of his holdings. 
So, the change in HLs service has not altered this in any way. As noted, hes not been 
required to sell any holdings, and even if he did, he would then be charged less. Hes being 
charged the same as he would be if he were resident in the UK. 
In summary, while I can appreciate the changes will have been an inconvenience for Mr H, I 
dont think HL has acted incorrectly or unfairly in any way. Ive noted his comments about the 
way in which the change was notified to customers and although HL could have adopted a 
more targeted approach, I dont think its decision to place a message window on its website 
linking to more information was unreasonable. I dont think it can be said that the information 
was hidden away or deliberately underplayed.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman