DRN-4091009
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as P, complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated 
Activity Company trading as Elavon Merchant Services failed to transfer payments made by 
one of Ps customers to its business account.
Mr K, who is a director of P, complains on its behalf.
What happened
Mr K told us:
In early July 2022 a customer visited Ps premises and explained that he would like 
to make several large purchases from P. However, the customer said that his card 
had an issue and so he must pay with forced sales. 
He asked advice from his accountant, and was told that he could accept payment in 
that way. His accountant recommended that he check the customers ID, which he 
did.
For several weeks, up until the middle of August 2022, P made sales to the 
customer. The customer would give his order, P would buy the goods from its 
wholesale supplier, and then the customer would visit Ps premises to make payment 
using his debit card. The customer would provide an authorisation code, and all the 
transactions were verified by PIN.
He then noticed that Elavon wasnt transferring the payments from this customer to 
Ps business account. 
Elavon later told him about chargebacks on 36 transactions. Elavon charged around 
£900 for processing the chargebacks, but the main problem for P was the 
chargebacks themselves  which were for more than £30,000.
He does not believe the chargebacks are valid. He has since been in touch with the 
company that supplied the card terminal machine (which was an Independent Sales 
Organisation, or ISO), and that company explained that chip and pin sales cannot be 
processed as chargebacks.
Elavon has referred him to its terms of service (TOS), specifically the section headed 
Transactions. However, he says that he had never previously received these TOS 
from Elavon. In any event, he believes that if there was a problem with the card, 
Elavon should have said so straightaway  it should not have waited for around 45 
days after the first transaction.
Elavon subsequently terminated Ps contract, without even fully considering all the 
documents he sent.
Overall, this issue should not be Ps problem. P supplied the products to its 
customer, and this issue should be between Ps customer and their bank.
Elavon told us:
During July and August 2022 P accepted 36 transactions on the same card number, 
with transaction amounts ranging from £10 to £1,800. The issuing bank later raised 
chargebacks against all these transactions, on the grounds that no valid authorisation 
code was obtained at the time.
Mr K has since confirmed that all the transactions were forced sales. This means P 
cannot defend the chargebacks.
Ps account was opened via an ISO which does not include Elavons TOS in the 
bundle that it sends to its customers. However, the ISO does inform its customers 
about important points during the sale, and says that Elavons TOS are available 
online to view. In addition, when Ps director signed the application form for Ps 
Elavon account, he agreed that the TOS formed part of the agreement between P 
and Elavon. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. She agreed with 
Elavon that P could not possibly have a valid defence to the chargebacks, so she didnt think 
Elavon had done anything wrong.
Mr K did not accept our investigators findings, and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by making clear that I can only consider Ps complaint that Elavon should not 
have processed the chargebacks. I cannot comment on any dispute P might have with its 
own customer, and I cannot comment on whether any legal claim P might have against its 
own customer would be successful. My role is limited to deciding whether, in the context of 
these chargeback claims, Elavon has treated P fairly and reasonably.
The chargeback process was run by the card scheme, and operated according to the card 
schemes rules. Elavon did not operate the scheme, and was not responsible for deciding 
whether the chargebacks should be successful  but it was responsible for deciding whether 
or not to attempt to defend the chargebacks.
In these circumstances, I am satisfied that Elavon is right to say that it could not defend the 
chargebacks. All of the transactions were forced sales (also called offline sales), which allow 
a merchant to accept a payment even when the card terminal isnt connected to the internet, 
and even when it is not possible for a PIN to be checked or validated. The merchant will be 
prompted to enter an authorisation code, which should be obtained by the merchant (and not 
the customer) by calling the relevant Authorisation Centre. If the merchant does not obtain 
an authorisation code, then any subsequent chargeback cannot be defended.
In this case, Mr K has said the authorisation codes were provided by Ps customer. But 
Authorisation Centres only provide codes to merchants, not to customers, and the codes the 
customer had were not valid. That would not have been apparent immediately, because the 
codes are only checked at a later stage.Mr K may not have seen Elavons Terms of Service before making this complaint, but that 
doesnt change whether the chargebacks can be defended under the card scheme rules. I 
think the TOS, which formed part of Ps agreement with Elavon, did make clear that it was 
for the merchant rather than the customer to obtain an authorisation code. I am also satisfied 
that Elavon did do enough to bring the TOS to Ps attention. 
 
Similarly, whilst it is unfortunate that P was not informed about the chargebacks earlier, 
Elavon is still unable to defend those chargebacks.
I am aware Mr K believes that chip and pin sales cannot be processed as chargebacks but, 
for clarity, that is not the case. He has also said his accountant told him P could process 
payments in the way it did, and that the ISO told him Elavon was wrong not to defend the 
chargebacks. He may have been misinformed by a third party, but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he was given any incorrect or misleading information by Elavon or by anyone 
acting as an agent of Elavon.
It appears P may have been a victim of fraud. I have every sympathy for Mr K and P, but I 
cannot say that Elavon has done anything wrong in processing the chargebacks.
I understand P knows who its customer is, and that it retained evidence of his identity. P may 
wish to consider taking legal advice to see if it is possible to recover any of its funds directly 
from its customer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Elavon Financial Services 
Designated Activity Company trading as Elavon Merchant Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman