DRN-2475154
The complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
 
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
From many years, Mr R had a British Gas HomeCare policy. We categorise that as a home 
emergency policy although it covers an annual service and most repairs whether or not there 
is an emergency.
For the year from June 2020, Mr R was paying the annual premium of about £340.00 by 
monthly instalments.
On 2 September 2020, Mr R had no hot water or heating. British Gas said it couldnt visit 
until 11 September 2020. Mr R didnt want to wait for such an appointment. He got a local 
company to attend instead. 
Mr R cancelled his policy with British Gas. It refunded part of an instalment - about £16.00.
On 4 October 2020 Mr R complained to British Gas. It wrote a final response dated 5 
October 2020 declining his complaint. 
Unhappy with that, Mr R brought his complaint to us in late October 2020. He thought that 
British Gas hadnt fulfilled the contract and should refund more of his instalment payments. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that it was reasonable for British Gas to expect Mr R to stay without heating and hot water 
for around 10 days. The investigator recommended that British Gas should pay Mr R 
£100.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Mr R agreed with the investigators opinion.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Its workload is monitored daily, and priority is always given to more vulnerable 
customers who have no heating/hot water.
Its policy terms include the following:
oReasonable timescales - Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled 
to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that 
impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give 
you another time when we can visit
oCash in lieu
We wont offer you cash instead of carrying out an annual service, repairs or 
replacements
The local company repaired his central heating system the following day, therefore 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R was minimal.
£100.00 isnt warranted in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British Gas work history says that Mr Rs boiler dated from 1997 and British Gas had 
insured it for about a decade.
Im familiar with the more recent versions of the British Gas policy terms including the terms 
quoted above.
From its records, I see that British Gas did an annual service visit to Mr R in July 2020. So 
he had had the benefit of that.
I accept that British Gas prioritises vulnerable customers. Mr R didnt claim to be in that 
category.
However, he was without central heating and hot water on 2 September 2020. I dont accept 
that the proposed visit by British Gas on 11 September wouldve been within a reasonable 
time in those circumstances. And British Gas hasnt given enough detail to show that 
something beyond its control was making it impossible for it to visit within a reasonable time.
So I find that British Gas didnt respond as Mr R was entitled to expect.
Mr R has told us that the local company diagnosed and replaced a faulty pump. He has told 
us the local company upgraded his central heating system. I havent seen any invoice or 
anything else in writing from the local company. 
So I cant say whether the local company did a repair that British Gas shouldve done. And I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to contribute towards what the local 
company charged Mr R. 
 
Putting things right
However, British Gas caused Mr R disappointment at its response time. British Gas also 
caused him the inconvenience of having to identify and call the local company.
For those reasons I agree with the investigator that £100.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for distress and inconvenience in Mr Rs case. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman