DRN-3042862
The complaint
Mr L complains that an unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers 
(CL&P) introduced him to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, (Options, which was trading 
as Carey Pensions UK LLP at the time of the relevant events) and gave him advice and 
made arrangements when doing so, despite not having the regulatory authorisation needed 
to do this.
Mr L says he was contacted by CL&P and, following its advice to transfer away from his 
existing Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) which was a money purchase (Defined 
Contribution) scheme, to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest in Store First, 
switched his pension arrangements to a SIPP with Options, and made a Store First 
investment. 
A Claims Management Company (CMC) has brought Mr Ls complaint on his behalf. The 
CMC says he (Mr L) is an inexperienced investor, and that Options failed to carry out the 
appropriate checks on CL&P, which it says caused Mr Ls losses. Any references to Mr L will 
include submissions/evidence provided by the CMC.
What happened
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
FCA. Options was authorised in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate or wind-up a pension 
scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
CL&P
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. At the time of the events here, one of 
the directors of CL&P was a Terence (Terry) Wright. On 15 October 2010, the following was 
published on the FSA, website, in a section called Firms and individuals to avoid, which 
was described as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe 
you should not deal with:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to 
warn investors against dealing with unauthorised firms.
The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual 
Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry 
on a regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, 
advising on investments.
The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK customers via the firm Cash 
In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme [FSCS] are not available if you deal with an 
unauthorised company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of 
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
CL&P and Options
Options has told us that it was first approached by CL&P in 2011 and that it entered into 
discussions about accepting introductions from it. Options began to accept introductions 
from CL&P on 15 August 2011 and ended its relationship with it on 25 May 2012. Options 
says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P. It says it reviewed CL&P's profile, 
conducted searches, reviewed CL&Ps website and literature, and had conversations with 
CL&Ps representatives over the telephone.
Ive set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions during 
the relationship between Options and CL&P, which Ive taken from the available evidence. 
This includes evidence from Mr Ls case file and generic submissions Options has made to 
us on other case files about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, CL&P.
Ive not seen any evidence to show Options carried out any due diligence on CL&P before it 
began accepting introductions from it. Rather, as I set out below, it began to accept 
introductions then carried out its due diligence whilst accepting business from CL&P. Some 
of what I set out below includes events which post-date Options acceptance of Mr Ls SIPP 
application and post-date Options sending his money for the investments. As I set out in my 
findings, some of what Options found out about CL&P during the course of its relationship 
with CL&P, and the action it took, is relevant in this complaint even where it does post-date 
Mr Ls application and investments.
Summary
15 August 2011 - Options begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a 
Zoe Adams and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P 
that Options initially had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Options asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer 
profile. The form itself explains its purpose as follows: As an FSA regulated pensions 
company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated 
introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business 
they carry out. Furthermore, when making this request, by email, Options Chief 
Executive, Christine Hallett, explained: ...we require for our compliance process to 
perform due diligence on companys who we enter into a business and professional 
relationship with. 29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It 
was completed and signed by Mr Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845 telephone number.
Itd been trading for two years and had two directors  Mr Wright and Lesley Wright.
It had eight agents and promoted four investments including Store First.
It worked with four other SIPP operators.
Its source of business was referrals and web enquiries.
Its sales process involved a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings.
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various compliance officers.
The document makes no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. After completing the 
document Mr Wright was asked to make the following declaration:
I declare the above is a true and accurate reflection of [name of individual or 
Firm] and that Options Pensions UK LLP can rely on this information. 
I/we fully indemnify Options Pensions UK LLP against any costs incurred as a 
result of any inaccuracies within this form.
I/we also acknowledge and accept that Options Pensions UK will undertake any 
enquiries about the firm and its Directors/Partners it feels appropriate.
9 December 2011 - Options had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During 
that call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to 
transfer or switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the 
following:
[Options staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had 
asked when they would receive their money from their Store First 
Investment, [CL&P representatives] confirmed that no clients or connected 
parties referred by CL&P receive any form of inducement for either 
establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that CL&P 
policy does not include offering inducements.
[Options staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules 
that clients or connected parties receive any form of inducement for making 
particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Options Head of Service and Operation said in an email to CL&P: On 
another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I 
attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 
which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and 
complete the terms and return. The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It 
was signed by Ms Adams.
23 March 2012 - Options compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the 
following information relating to CLP Brokers:A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the 
company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Options sent Ms Hallett an email with the subject  
03- 29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back [reference removed]. That email 
forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a consumer, which included the following: 
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum 
of £1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment. And the text 
addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said: this is the second member this week 
to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Options compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email: It is 
now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance. When 
asked, Options said it had no record of receiving the information from CL&P. 
15 May 2012 - Options conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report included 
the following:
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS REPORTED IN ONE OR MORE 
OF THE SOURCES BELOW
[FINANCIAL SERVICES WARNING]
Appears on the UK Financial Services Authority.
[REPORTS]
Appears on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals,
INFORMATION SOURCES;
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/unauthorised.shtmI - 
ARCHIVE
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/lndex.shtml - 
ARCHIVE
Entered: 2011/10/24
25 May 2012 - Options terminated its agreement with CL&P. Options Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Options decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements 
(monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we 
have received enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their money and 
have today been informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on 
completion of the Storefirst investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered 
by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case. 
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our 
Introducer Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept 
business from you.
Store FirstThe Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part of a 
larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility and 
were offered a guaranteed level of income for a set period of time. After that, they could either 
take whatever income the unit(s) provided or sell them (assuming there was a market for them).
The Store First investment was marketed as offering a guaranteed 8% return in the first two 
years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two years, and 12% in the next two years. 
It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy back after five years. But little of this 
materialised. It seems most investors received one or two years income of 8%, but nothing 
beyond that. And investors have found it very difficult to sell, with those that have sold 
receiving a small fraction of the amount they paid for their pods.
In the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Options Pensions UK LLP) 
[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) (Adams v Options HC), the judge found the value of Mr Adams 
pods, acquired for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 2017. But 
several results of auctions of the pods show the sale price has been much lower than the 
price at which the pods were purchased.
In May 2014, the Self Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned Deloitte 
LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by Store 
First. The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units 
consider the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HMRC?
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating 
profits, the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a 
different source?
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self storage 
site against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been 
valued and sold at recently.
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this 
investment, particularly if Store First exits the business.
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model 
that have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in 
Townsville, Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes 
had failed).
The release refers to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store First 
in its marketing material. It also makes the following observations:
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the 
general public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. 
Normally the rent paid by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income 
per square foot earned through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at 
industry average occupancy levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be 
earning £23.95 per square foot just to pay the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding 
operating costs such as insurance, staff, business rates, utilities, marketing and 
management fees for Store First.Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet there does not 
appear to be sufficient income from the operations of the business to fund these 
returns.
The analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being paid per 
square foot by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken together 
equates to a much higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites were sold 
as stand-alone self- storage stores.
...a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed 
returns to existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely 
level of losses that require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case 
that the rental returns being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale 
proceeds of new units, and not the operation of the self- storage business.
On 30 April 2019 the courts made an order shutting down Store First and three of the related 
companies by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. The 
Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator. At the time, the Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service said:
These four companies unscrupulously secured millions of pounds worth of 
investments using a variety of methods that misled investors, particularly those with 
pension savings.
The court rightly recognised the sheer scale of the problem caused by Store Firsts 
sales of a flawed business model, based on misrepresentation and misleading 
information and has shut down these companies in recognition of the damage done 
to investors retirement plans.
Mr Ls dealings with CL&P and Options 
Mr L had an existing OPS which he has confirmed was a money purchase scheme and not a 
defined benefit scheme. Following being contacted (cold called) by CL&P, Mr L said he was 
persuaded to transfer his OPS into the Options SIPP and invest in Store First. 
Options received a letter of authority on 16 February 2012, where Mr L elected to use CL&P 
as his introducers. Options received the letter of authority, alongside the SIPP application 
form which Mr L had signed on 11 February 2012. The application form confirmed Mr L was 
intending to transfer his OPS into an Options SIPP and invest £29,000 into the Store First 
investment  this investment amount was later changed to £18,750. 
Options sent Mr L a welcome pack on 17 February 2012 which included a copy of its 
terms and conditions and a Key Facts document. The welcome pack letter stated the 
establishment date of the SIPP was 1 February 2012. On 18 April 2012, Mr L signed an 
Options member declaration and indemnity form, (the indemnity) which amongst other 
things, gave Options instructions to purchase the Store First Investment. The form made 
the following typed statements:
I, [Mr L] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Carey Pension Trustees 
UK Ltd to Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Storefirst investment through 
Harley-Scott Holdings Ltd for a consideration of £18,750, on my behalf for the above 
Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is 
High Risk and/or Speculative.As the Member of the Pension Scheme, I confirm that neither I nor any person 
connected to me is receiving a monetary or other inducement for transacting this 
investment.
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this 
investment and have taken my own advice, including financial, investment and tax 
advice.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK 
Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey Pensions UK LLP 
nor Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in 
respect of this investment.
I confirm that my business / occupation is not renting out storage units.
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable 
Moveable Property and/or any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future 
these will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.
I also understand and agree that, in the event of my demise, if Carey Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be 
transferred to my beneficiaries through my estate and accordingly may be subject to 
any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor on behalf of the Scheme
[name of solicitor]
I agree to Carey Pensions Fee of £500 + VAT, amounting for transacting this 
investment.
I agree that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event of 
default, by me personally.
I indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd against 
any and all liability arising from this investment
The purchase of the Store First investment was completed on 11 May 2012.
Mr Ls complaint
In summary, Mr L complains that Options was responsible for the losses to his pension 
funds as a result of the Store First investment failure. It says these losses would have been 
avoided if Options had carried out sufficient checks in line with the SIPP regulatory guidance 
before accepting business from CL&P.
Options rejected Mr Ls complaint. It said as an execution only service it cannot be held 
responsible for any losses Mr L has suffered as a result of any decisions he made about 
transferring his pension and/or investing in Store First.
Mr L brought his complaint to our Service. The initial investigator recommended upholding 
the complaint saying, amongst other things, that he didnt think Options had adequately 
carried out due diligence on the introducer, CL&P. And that if it had done so, it would not 
have accepted business from CL&P and this would have avoided Mr Ls losses.In its submissions to us Options said:
Options does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice to clients in 
relation to the establishment of a SIPP, transfers in, or the underlying 
investments. Nor does it comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the 
transfers in and investments for an individuals circumstances. It did not advise, 
nor purport to advise, Mr L.
Options acts as the administrator only of Mr Ls SIPP. He opened his SIPP and 
went on to invest on an execution only (i.e. non-advised) basis and this was made 
very clear in communications with him, the documentation issued to him, and the 
paperwork he read, signed and agreed to. As an execution only business, Options 
would have been in breach of COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 11.2.19 
had it not followed the signed instructions given to it by Mr L.
CL&P was a non-regulated introducer and as such, it was never suggested to 
Mr L by Options that CL&P was a financial adviser or was authorised to provide 
advice. Mr L was therefore categorised as a direct client of Options.
Options did not suggest or recommend the Store First investment to Mr L. It is 
not responsible for the performance or current market value of his storage units.
Options acted on Mr Ls instructions to establish the SIPP, request the transfers 
in and specifically to make the investments on his behalf into Store First, in the 
amounts instructed by him.
Options carried out an internal investment review and due diligence on Store 
First and concluded that these investments were suitable to be held within a UK 
pension scheme.
Options undertook due diligence on CL&P and this due diligence did not reveal 
any reason why Options should not accept introductions from CL&P, at the time 
of Mr Ls investment.
We asked Options to provide us with some further information about its relationship with 
CL&P. Its response included the following general points:
551 clients were introduced to Options via CL&P - 466 clients had been 
introduced by the time CL&P signed the Terms of Business with Options on 
20 March 2012.
Options first became aware of the issue of consumers being offered cash 
incentives by CL&P in late November 2011. This was following the AMPS 
(Association of Member Directed Pension Schemes) committee issuing an alert 
that they had received reports from a number of pension providers about 
inducements being paid to scheme members without the knowledge of the 
pension provider, and the member being told to hide the payment. No details 
were given about the parties involved. With this in mind, and following a 
potential new member introduced by CL&P asking Options when they would 
receive their cash, Options held an urgent telephone conference with 
representatives from CL&P (the notes of this call are quoted above).
Options thinks it is likely that the lack of response to its request for copies of the 
passports of the directors of CL&P and accounts was a factor in its decision to 
terminate its relationship with CL&P. 
CL&P only introduced the clients to Options at inception, it was not an ongoing 
service agent and, as such, the relationship was always between Options and 
the members from establishment of the SIPPs, as its direct clients. It was the 
clients' decision to select CL&P as their introducer.
There were numerous introducers in the market and regulated advisers who 
were introducing/advising clients regarding the Store First Investment and whose clients sought SIPP services from Options and other SIPP 
administrators. Options had no reason to suspect that because one of these - 
CL&P - had been offering cash inducements that there might be any particular 
issue or additional risks for clients in respect of the underlying investment.
The member declaration was very clear regarding what the investments were 
and, crucially, that they were high risk. In relation to its due diligence on 
introducers Options highlights that it made changes following the regulators 
Thematic Review in September 2009 and adherence to treating its customers 
fairly and has told us:
In the early days CPUK [Options] accepted execution only and advised 
business and there was no specific requirement for non regulated 
introducers. In late 2011 we reviewed our internal processes and as good 
practice implemented a combined Non Regulated Introducer Profile and 
Terms of Business. The due diligence process was improved, with company 
checks, accounts and affiliated companies also being reviewed and checks 
against sanctions lists.
The non regulated introducer would sign the profile which confirmed that they 
had read and agreed to the Terms of Business. There is reference to this 
improvement in our process in the FSA letter dated 29 September 2011, 
following a visit to CPUK.
A more recent view was issued by another investigator, who again recommended upholding 
the complaint. The investigator considered CL&P had breached the General Prohibition. And 
as a result, they thought that section 27 (s27) FSMA offered another reason to uphold the 
complaint. Our investigator clarified with both Mr L and the business that the initial redress 
recommended in the first view was still appropriate to put him (Mr L) back in the position he 
would have been but for Options failings. The investigator also provided further reasoning for 
the recommendation of an award of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L.
Options didnt provide any further submissions to this second view. And as no agreement 
could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out the reasoning for my decision, I consider it important for me to say that in 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses (the Principles) are of particular relevance 
to my decision. The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs (formerly the FSA) handbook: 
...are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN1.1.2G). I consider the Principles most relevant to this complaint include 
Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162: 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said: Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach 
of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even 
if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its 
particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find 
expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is 
fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 
2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of an 
Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The Ombudsman considered 
the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded it was fair 
and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in respect of the 
investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have 
refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not 
complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): These passages explain the overarching nature of the 
Principles. As the FCA correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles 
is not merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate 
a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as 
those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers s228 FSMA and the approach an Ombudsman is to 
take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness 
of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, 
and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant 
considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I 
were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar 
approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So, the Principles are a relevant 
consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams Court cases
I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in Adams v Options SIPP and the 
Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 
474. I note the Supreme Court refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal 
judgement. Ive considered whether these judgments mean the Principles should not be 
taken into account in deciding this case. Im of the view they do not. In the High Court case, 
HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. 
One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found the judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not 
of direct relevance to the case before him was because: ...the specific regulatory provisions 
which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was asked to consider are not those which have 
formed the basis of the claimants case before me. Likewise, the Principles were not 
considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the judgments say nothing about the application of 
the FCAs Principles to the Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options 
owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable 
pursuant to s138(D) FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that 
Options had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
Although Mr Adams appeal of the High Court judgment was partially successful, the Court of 
Appeal rejected the part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found this part of Mr Adams appeal 
did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that in the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight found the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148: In 
my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
The issues in Mr Ls complaint are different from the issues as pleaded in Adams. There are 
also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and 
from the issues in Mr Ls complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the 
Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship 
between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that 
happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Ls complaint, I am considering whether 
Options ought to have identified that the introductions from CL&P involved a risk of 
consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
CL&P prior to entering into a contract with Mr L.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding that Options was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mr L on the suitability of its SIPP or the investments for him 
personally. But Im satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/ or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its 
obligations at the relevant time. As noted above, the introducer profile completed at the 
outset of Options relationship with CL&P said: As an FSA regulated pensions company we 
are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms 
looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out.
s27/28 FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant to 
s27 FSMA. s27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and another 
party, which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons regulated 
activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made: ...in consequence of 
something said or done by another person (the third party) in the course of a regulated activity 
carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition.
s27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the 
agreement; and
 (b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted 
with it.
s28(3) FSMA provides that:
If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the 
case, it may allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be 
retained.
The General Prohibition is set out in s19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport 
to do so, unless he is 
a) an authorised person; or
b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so s27 FSMA applied. It 
further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the agreement 
to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by s28(3) FSMA. At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, 
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their 
own folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams 
caused his own losses and misled Carey;
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so 
onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce 
agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay 
compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was 
such as to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was 
recommending clients to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to 
that end. Options has told the Financial Ombudsman separately that 551 clients 
were introduced to Options via CL&P. And 466 clients had been introduced by 
the time CL&P signed the Terms of Business with Options on 20 March 2012. 
So, in my view, there was reason for Options to be concerned about the 
possibility of the introducer advising on investments within the meaning of 
article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it 
was taking high commission from the investment provider. And that there were 
indications the introducer (CL&P) was offering consumers cash back and one 
of those running the introducer was subject to an FSA warning notice.
The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had 
reasons for concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or 
at least explore the position with Mr Adams. Options first became aware of the 
issue of cash incentives by CL&P in late November 2011.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The September 2009 and October 2012 Thematic Review reports (the 
review or reviews).
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 review
The 2009 review included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure 
the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF [treating customers fairly] 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be 
addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the 
position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, 
while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that 
they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended. 
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance (the guidance), the FCA states: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007. All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide 
advice must meet Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer 
under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes. 
The guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and
that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business 
warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax- 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Dear CEO letter 
also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in relation to investment due 
diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets 
is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reviews and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance, whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is. However, the fact the reviews and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles apply and are an indication 
of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and 
produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the publications, which 
set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing, also goes some 
way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice. Im therefore satisfied it is 
appropriate to take them into account in this case. 
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that: the regulators reports [reviews], guidance and 
letter go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. 
And the judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 review), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ls complaint, mean 
that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at the time of the 
relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the events subject to 
this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to 
act in accordance with them.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reviews (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed. 
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 review, 2013 SIPP operator 
guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter, to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams 
claim. But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into account 
good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I 
consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reviews, Dear CEO letter and guidance, 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr L. It is accepted Options was not required to give advice 
to him and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the meaning of, 
or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As noted above, it is clear from Options non-regulated introducer profile, that it understood 
and accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on 
CL&P. I am satisfied that to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, 
Options was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business 
with the Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding. I note in 
submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it 
had in mind when considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of 
whether it should accept business from a particular introducer.
Overall, Im satisfied that in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on CL&P which was consistent with good industry practice and its 
regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The actions Options took  which were carried out after its relationship with CL&P began, 
rather than before it accepted business from CL&P  are set out in detail in the background 
sections above. So, I will not repeat them here. However, I would note at this point that the 
actions Options took, in addition to being taken after Options began accepting business from 
CL&P, appear to have been taken on a reactive, piecemeal, basis.
Further, the available evidence shows Options did not meet its own standards when carrying 
out due diligence on CL&P. From late 2011, in accordance with its own standards (as 
submitted to us), it should have carried out company checks on CL&P, reviewed CL&Ps 
accounts, and checked sanctions lists. 
As I set out above, these standards appear to be consistent with good industry practice and 
Options regulatory obligations at the relevant time (although it is not clear what a check of 
sanctions lists would encompass). However, Options did not - in practice - act in a way 
which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the 
relevant time. I explain this in more detail below.
The FSA list
CL&P was an unregulated business, based in Spain, and was proposing to deal with the 
pensions of UK consumers. Options ought to have known the FSA kept a list of Alerts, relating to unregulated businesses, which were often based overseas. Options has not explained what a 
search/check of sanctions lists entailed. But I think a check of such lists should have included 
the FSAs list of Alerts. In any event, as a SIPP operator considering accepting business from 
an unregulated overseas firm, it should have been mindful of the FSAs list of Alerts, and in 
compliance with its regulatory obligations, it ought to have checked this list before proceeding 
with accepting business from CL&P, whether it considered the FSAs list of alerts to be a 
sanctions list or not.
At the relevant time, the FSAs list featured warnings (Alerts) about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses. And, in my view, checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is 
something that Options should have done as a matter of course before it began accepting 
any business from CL&P. This is consistent with good industry practice as highlighted in the 
2009 review and later documents. And, I find it would have been fair and reasonable, and in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, for such a check to take place before it entered 
into a relationship with CL&P.
As part of its independent checks, Options used a risk intelligence tool called World Check. 
I understand this is a tool which is internationally recognised and commonly used by 
businesses to carry out background searches. And, I assume its use was part of what 
Options describes as searches when explaining the due diligence standards it introduced in 
late 2011, (which, in my view, if they had been implemented effectively, were consistent with 
good industry practice and in compliance with Options regulatory obligations).
Although Options used the tool here, it failed to run checks on the appropriate persons at 
CL&P. On 20 September 2011 it ran checks on a Ms Adams and a Mr Lloyd. However, I 
understand that these individuals were only employees of CL&P and neither controlled nor 
managed CL&P. So, the fact the checks run on these individuals did not raise any issues is of 
little, if any, value. It does not mean that Options had met its regulatory obligations here. In my 
view, as a first step, Options ought to have carried out sufficient due diligence so as to 
properly establish who the directors or individuals who controlled CL&P were. Only then would 
it be able to run checks on the appropriate persons.
As part of its due diligence process, Options required CL&P to fill out a non-regulated 
introducer profile questionnaire. CL&P completed the questionnaire on 29 September 2011. 
The profile named the two directors of CL&P, one of which was Mr Wright. The profile made 
no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. So, at this point, Options was aware Mr Wright was 
one of the directors of CL&P.
I note the profile CL&P completed asked the question: Are you and/or the Firm subject to 
any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. And, Mr Wright 
answered No to this question. However, it was not sufficient, in my view, to simply ask the 
introducer a general question. Rather, I think Options, acting fairly, with due regard to Mr Ls 
interests, should have carried out its own check on Mr Wright. And that appears to have 
been Options view too. Its comments suggest it understood it was good practice, consistent 
with its regulatory obligations, to make its own independent checks. So, it ought to have 
undertaken a check on Mr Wright before it began accepting introductions from CL&P.
Had Options checked the FSAs list in August 2011, it would have discovered that Mr Wright 
was the subject of the Alert which Ive set out in full above so I wont repeat it again here. 
This Alert was dated 15 October 2010. If Options had acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice at the relevant time it ought to have undertaken 
sufficient enquiries on CL&P to understand who its directors were, and checked the FSAs 
warning list as part of its due diligence on CL&P. Had it carried out these checks before 
accepting business from CL&P it would have discovered that CL&Ps director Mr Wright was 
on the FSA warning list. Cash incentives
In November 2011, Options become aware that: a potential member had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store First Investment. This took place at around the 
time Options accepted Mr Ls SIPP application and before the payment for the Store First 
investment was made. Options says the general risk of introducers offering cash incentives 
had been flagged to it by a trade body. Such payments are against the rules covering 
pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge from HMRC.
Options spoke to CL&P in a conference call on 9 December 2011. Options has told us that in 
that call CL&P: 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form 
of inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment 
and that CL&P policy does not include offering inducements. And an Options staff 
member: ...emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or connected 
parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
I am not persuaded it was reasonable for Options to rely on what CL&P said when it clearly 
had information to show the position was contrary to that being set out to it by CL&P during 
the call. Options was aware cash incentives had been offered  discussing this was the 
purpose of the call with CL&P. In the circumstances, I do not think it was fair and 
reasonable for Options to proceed, based solely on a denial of this by CL&P. It should, at 
the very least, have taken independent steps to check things for itself  it could, for 
example, have contacted the consumers it had received applications for before the date of 
the call, to ask them about cash incentives. 
Mr L confirmed that he was not offered and did not receive any cash back incentive from 
CL&P. 
Accounts
Based on the available evidence, it appears a request for CL&Ps accounts was not made 
by Options until 23 March 2012. Its not clear why the request was made at this time. But it 
seems CL&P did not respond as the request was repeated, as urgent, on 3 April 2012. But 
by this point Mr Ls SIPP had already been set up.
CL&P replied to Options to say the information would be in the post the next day. However, 
when asked, Options has told us it has no record of receiving the information and that this was 
another likely factor in its eventual decision to end its relationship with CL&P. In my opinion, it 
is fair and reasonable that Options should have met its own standards, set in late 2011, and 
should have checked CL&Ps accounts at the outset before accepting any business from it. 
This is a step it should reasonably have taken to meet its regulatory obligations.
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options failed to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it. And, in light of the 
Principles and FSA/FCA regulatory publications I have quoted above, this means Options did 
not comply with its regulatory obligations or with good industry practice at the relevant time.
If Options had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
concluded?In my opinion, I think Mr Wrights appearance on the FSAs list ought to have highlighted to 
Options that the regulator was concerned enough about his activities to warn consumers 
about him. And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the 
warning was aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning (Alert) should have acted as a significant reason for 
Options to be concerned about any business Mr Wright was involved in  not just Cash In 
Your Pension. The warning mentioned that Mr Wright was involved in the area of pensions  
which is the same business area that CL&P was active in. And the warning said that 
Mr Wright was not authorised and may be targeting UK customers in connection with 
investment business conducted through an unregulated company, Cash In Your Pension.
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered No to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Options  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct and integrity.
I note that Options ended its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Mr Wright. Im satisfied that this check was a factor in its decision to end the relationship. 
Options has told us that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time 
of it accepting business from CL&P, would have been sufficient to stop it doing business with 
Mr Wright and/ or CL&P. It said: The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a 
clear warning including an express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a 
warning that would have put Options Pensions on notice to stop accepting business from 
Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
Options says in relation to the FSAs list that the 2010 Alert would not have led it to the same 
conclusion. It says: the Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is 
not authorised to carry on regulated activities, a fact of which Options was well aware and 
upon which basis it accepted referrals from CL&P. This seems to be at odds with the action 
it took in 2012, based on the 2010 warning. And I note Options Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, 
gave evidence to the court during the High Court Adams v Options hearing, which is 
summarised at Paragraph 60 of the judgment as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published 
warnings about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not 
authorised under FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross 
examination that no check was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory 
warning notice on the FCAs website until May 2012. The relationship between the 
defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been 
aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
This, in my view, is inconsistent with Options representations to us. In any event, although 
Options has said it believes the 2010 Alert was less significant than the 2013 one, by 
comparing the wording of the two, I think the 2010 Alert was a clear indication that the 
regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr Wright conducted his business. And 
therefore, should have put Options on notice that it should not accept business from him.
I accept the 2013 Alert provides strong advice to only deal with financial firms authorised by the 
FCA. However, I do not agree with Options characterisation of the 2010 Alert and Im surprised 
that Options suggests the regulator does not detail any concern about Mr Wright in this. A 
publication headed ALERT in bold is clearly not routine and unimportant. Its clear from the 
wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised firms and 
specifically named Mr Wright. He was involved in targeting (to use the FSAs phrase) UK based pension investors  which should have been of particular concern to a SIPP operator 
considering accepting business from him. The Alert also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised firms.
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors.
A document telling investors about the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms 
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable to conclude the warning was more than a mere 
statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not carry out regulated activities. It was a 
clear warning - an Alert - relating specifically to Mr Wright, providing links to guidance on 
consumer protection and warnings about scams.
 
So, in my view, and despite what Options says, CL&Ps director Mr Wrights presence on 
the FSA Alert list should have led it (Options) to conclude it should not do business with 
CL&P. That is my view and I note it is a view which was held by Ms Hallett when she gave 
evidence to the court during the Adams v Options HC hearing. Ms Hallett told the court that 
if she had been aware of the warning in 2010 Options would not have dealt with CL&P. 
Such a conclusion was the proper one it ought to have reached bearing in mind Options 
responsibilities under the Principles.
In addition, on the issue of cash incentives, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for 
Options to simply rely on a denial by CL&P in circumstances where it seems it was aware 
cash incentives were being offered. I think Options shouldve taken steps to independently 
check the position. And it is fair and reasonable to conclude that prompt action wouldve 
inevitably led Options to discover that cash incentive payments were being widely offered by 
CL&P at the time, and what CL&P had told Options, wasnt correct. It follows that Options 
ought to have concluded  as it belatedly did when the issue of cash incentives came to light 
again in 2012  that it couldnt rely on what CL&P had told it and it would not be consistent 
with its regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from it.
If Options had acted with a reasonable amount of diligence it would have discovered that 
CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words: completely against all rules. And 
it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity  it had not told it the truth when 
asked about cash incentives. In my view, the only fair and reasonable thing it could do would 
have been to decide not to accept any further business from CL&P and not to proceed with 
any applications which had not completed (that is to say the investment had not been made).
I think if checks on CL&Ps accounts had been attempted earlier, the fact that CL&P were 
unwilling to provide this information should have raised a red flag, as it apparently eventually 
did. This information was requested and chased sooner after Mr Ls application for the SIPP 
and prior to his investments. CL&Ps reluctance to provide basic information should have 
been a further factor which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into 
or continue a relationship with CL&P. And, it would have meant Options should never have 
entered into a relationship with CL&P at all.
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think in the circumstances it is fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to have concluded, had it 
complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct sufficient due diligence 
on CL&P before accepting business from it, that it (Options) should not accept business from 
CL&P. I therefore consider that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say Options 
should not have accepted Mr Ls SIPP application from CL&P. As Ive explained above, Options should neither have accepted Mr Ls introduction from 
CL&P. So, whilst Ive taken into account Options submissions in regard to the due diligence 
it carried out on the Store Frist investment, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint on that basis of the introducer due diligence alone. 
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ls instructions?
I note that Options has made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is required to 
execute the specific instructions of its client. Before considering this point, I think it is 
important for me to reiterate that, it was not fair and reasonable for Options to have accepted 
Mr Ls application from CL&P in the first place. So, in my opinion, Mr Ls SIPP should not 
have been established and the opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in 
reliance on an indemnity should not have arisen at all. 
In any event, Options argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 
11.2.19R was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which 
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is consistent 
with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The text of 
COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression when executing orders indicates 
that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order, and the way 
in which the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of 
execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey & Anr v Barclays 
Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not addressing an anterior 
question, namely whether a particular order should be executed at all. I agree with the 
FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the Handbook concerned with the 
method of execution of client orders, and is designed to achieve a high quality of 
execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, and refers to the 
factors that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute the order. It 
has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order should be accepted in 
the first place.
I therefore dont think that Options argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first 
place or to execute the instruction to make the Store First investment i.e. to proceed with the 
application.
The indemnity
The indemnity sought to confirm that Mr L was aware the investment was high risk, had 
taken his own advice, and would not hold Options responsible for any liability resulting from 
the investment. The FSAs 2009 review said that SIPP operators should, as an example of 
good practice, be: Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have 
signed disclaimers taking responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business. With this in mind, I think 
Options ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Ls application even though he 
had signed the indemnity. 
Options had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory obligations that Ive set 
out in this decision. In my view, Options was not treating Mr L fairly by asking him to sign an 
indemnity absolving Options of all responsibility, and relying on such an indemnity, when it 
ought to have known that Mr Ls dealings with CL&P were putting him at significant risk.Summary of my findings on due diligence
In summary, Options did not comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr L fairly by accepting his 
application from CL&P, in the light of what it knew or ought to have known about CL&P. For 
all the reasons given, Im satisfied that this is the fair and reasonable conclusion to reach.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not making a finding that Options should have assessed the 
suitability of the investments or the SIPP for Mr L. I accept Options had no obligation to give 
advice to him, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. 
My finding is not that Options should have concluded that the investment or SIPP was not 
suitable for Mr L. Rather, Options was able to accept or reject applications for business and I 
say that it should have rejected his application for a SIPP introduced by CL&P.
s27 and s28 FSMA
As set out in the relevant considerations section above, I have also considered the application 
of s27 and s28 FSMA. I have set out the key parts of s27 and s28 above and have considered 
them carefully, in full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether s27 
applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under s28, as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its activities that contravened the General Prohibition; and
4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Was an unauthorised third-party involved?
There is no dispute CL&P was an unauthorised third party.
Is there evidence CL&P acted in breach of the General Prohibition?
Under article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant
time) the following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or 
in his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as 
principal or agent) (i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment, or (ii) 
exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe 
for or underwrite such an investment.
Under article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant
time) the following are regulated activities:(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is -
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a 
specified kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under article 26 of ...arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate
Ive considered these in turn.
Advice
I think the following part of the Court of Appeals judgment in the Adams case is of particular 
relevance here.
Paragraph 82: In short, CLPs recommendation that Mr Adams invest in storepods carried 
with it advice that he transfer out of his Friends Life policy and put the money into a Carey 
SIPP. Investment in storepods may have been the ultimate objective, but it was to be gained 
by transferring out of the Friends Life policy and into a Carey SIPP. CLP thus proposed that 
Mr Adams undertake those transactions too and, in so doing, gave advice on the merits of 
selling a particular investment which is a security (viz. the Friends Life policy) and buying 
another particular investment which is a security (viz. a Carey SIPP). Although, therefore, 
the advice to invest in storepods was not of itself covered by article 53 of the RAO, CLP 
nonetheless gave Mr Adams advice within the scope of article 53 and so acted in 
contravention of the general prohibition.
Here, Mr L was contacted by CL&P and his evidence is that it advised him to transfer out of 
his existing pension into the Options SIPP and invest in Store First. I think that evidence is 
plausible, and credible. I do not think Mr L thought of taking this course of action of his own 
volition or would have done so without a positive recommendation from CL&P. I also note it 
was CL&P which contacted Mr L. I know Options has said it was likely he had contacted 
CL&P but it has provided no persuasive evidence of this.
To confirm, I am satisfied CL&P advised Mr L to transfer out of his existing pension and 
transfer into the Options SIPP  and so it undertook the regulated activity defined at article 
53 of the RAO.
Making arrangements
I think the following parts of the Court of Appeals judgement in the Adams case are of 
particular relevance here.
Paragraph 99: The fact remains that CLP pre-completed the application form so that 
[Mr Adams] could just sign it (to quote Mr Adams witness statement). It also told Mr Adams of 
documents he would need to supply for anti-money laundering purposes and explained that 
the completed forms and [his] anti money laundering documents will be collected by courier and taken to Carey Pensions UK. Arrangements being a broad and untechnical word in 
article 25 of the RAO as well as section 235 of FSMA, it is apt to describe what CLP did.
Paragraph 100:
I consider, too, that the steps which CLP took can fairly be said to have been such as 
to bring about the transfers from Friends Life and into the Carey SIPP. Contrary to the 
Judges understanding, it does not matter that CLPs acts did not necessarily result in 
any transaction between [Mr Adams] and [Carey] or that the process was out of 
CLPs hands to control in any event. Nor is it determinative whether steps can be 
termed administrative.
CLPs procuring the letter of authority, role in relation to anti-money laundering 
requirements and (especially) completion of the Carey application form were much 
more closely related to the relevant transactions than, say, the advertisement which 
originally prompted Mr Adams to contact CLP. It is to be remembered that CLP filled in 
sections of the application form dealing with Personal Details, Occupation & 
Eligibility, Transfers, Investments and Nomination of Beneficiaries. In my view, 
what CLP did was thus significantly instrumental in the material transfers. In other 
words, there was, in my view, sufficient causal potency to satisfy the requirements of 
article 26 of the RAO.
In Mr Ls case, at the outset he gave Options: permission to liaise directly with CLP Brokers in 
respect of all matters regarding my pension arrangement. And it seems the application form 
was pre-populated by CL&P. So, the steps which CL&P took can fairly be said to have been 
such as to bring about the transfer from Mr Ls existing pension into the Options SIPP  they 
had sufficient causal potency to satisfy the requirements of article 26 of the RAO. 
I am therefore satisfied CL&P carried out regulated activities, and therefore breached the 
General Prohibition. And any one regulated activity is sufficient for these purposes so this test 
would be met if CL&P had only undertaken arranging (which, for the reasons I have set out, I 
do not think is the case).
Did Mr L enter into an agreement with Options in consequence of CL&Ps actions?
I am satisfied the SIPP was opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements 
made, by CL&P. If CL&P had not contacted Mr L, advised him to transfer his existing pension to a 
SIPP with Options in order to invest in Store First and then made the arrangements for that to 
happen, Im satisfied he would not have entered into an agreement with Options. 
Would the courts conclude it is just and equitable for the agreement between Mr L and 
Options to be enforced in any event?
Having carefully considered this, I am satisfied a court would not conclude it is just and 
equitable for the agreement between Mr L and Options to be enforced in any event. I think 
very similar reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, 
while consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their 
own decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, s27 FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with 
doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to 
enforce agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of 
third parties contraventions of the general prohibition.
As set out above Options was aware, or ought to have been aware:
oMr Wright featured on the FSAs list of Alerts about 
unauthorised individuals and businesses
oIt had not been privy to CL&Ps company accounts.
oCL&P was offering cash incentives to consumers and 
therefore acting completely against all rules.
The investment did not proceed until these things were known or ought to 
have been known to Options and so it was  or should have been - open to it 
to decline the investment.
So, I am satisfied s27 FSMA offers a further and alternative basis on which it would be fair 
and reasonable to conclude Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. I have therefore gone on to 
consider the question of fair compensation.
Is it fair to ask Options to compensate Mr L?
In deciding whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr L has suffered on his Store 
First investment, I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done what it should 
have done i.e. had not accepted Mr L SIPP application in the first place. When considering this 
I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment in Adams ([2021] 
EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with restitution/compensation.
Im required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And I do not consider the fact that Mr L signed the indemnity means that he 
shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and reasonable to do so. In deciding whether Options is 
responsible for any losses that Mr L has suffered on the investments in his SIPP, I need to 
look at what would have happened if Options had done what it should have done i.e. not 
accepted his application.
Had Options acted fairly and reasonably it should have concluded that it should not accept 
Mr Ls application to open a SIPP. That should have been the end of the matter  it should 
have told him that it could not accept the business. And I am satisfied, if that had happened, 
the arrangement for Mr L would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he 
suffered could have been avoided.
The financial loss has flowed from Mr L transferring out of his existing pension and into a 
SIPP. For the reasons I set out below, I am satisfied that had the SIPP application not been 
accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. I would reach a similar conclusion if 
Options had terminated the transaction at a later stage once it was in possession of certain 
facts that meant there was a significant chance Mr L could suffer financial detriment.
Had Options explained to Mr L why it would not accept the application from CL&P or was 
terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that he would have tried to find another 
SIPP operator to accept the business. So, Im satisfied that Mr L would not have continued 
with the SIPP, had it not been for Options failings, and would have remained in his existing 
scheme. And, whilst I accept that CL&P is responsible for initiating the course of action that 
has led to his loss, I consider that Options failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of 
action when it had the opportunity and obligation to do so. 
I have considered paragraph 154 of the Adams v Options High Court judgment, which says: The 
investment here was acknowledged by the claimant to be high risk and/or speculative. He accepted responsibility for evaluating that risk and for deciding to proceed in knowledge of the 
risk. A duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of the client, who is to 
take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be construed in my judgment as meaning that 
the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the client is not to be treated as able to 
reach and take responsibility for his own decisions and that his instructions are not to be 
followed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ls actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. I do not say Options 
should not have accepted the application because the investment was high risk. I 
acknowledge Mr L was warned of the high risk and declared he understood that warning.
But, as I set out above, Options did not share significant warning signs with him so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether to proceed or not. In any event, Options 
should not have asked him to sign the indemnity at all as the application should never have 
been accepted or alternatively the transaction should have been terminated at a much 
earlier stage in the process. Furthermore, as set out above, I am satisfied there is a legal 
basis on which Mr L is entitled to compensation by virtue of s27 FSMA.
So, in all the circumstances I consider it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Options should 
compensate Mr L for the loss he has suffered. I am not asking Options to account for loss that 
goes beyond the consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused the full 
extent of the loss in question. That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is 
a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on 
Mr Ls right to fair compensation from Options for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
In light of the above findings, my aim is to put Mr L back into the position he would have 
been but for Options failings. Therefore, Options should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr L would be in if he had not transferred from 
his existing pension. In summary, Options should: 
1. Calculate the loss Mr L has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ls pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to him direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 to Mr L for the distress and inconvenience the avoidable problems with his 
pension will have caused him. I consider the difficulties with a pension are naturally 
very worrying especially in Mr Ls circumstances in that he is facing a significant loss 
to his pension funds as a result of the transfer to the Options SIPP. So, I think the 
award of £500 for the trouble and upset caused is fair and reasonable.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculations set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr L has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Ls pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP. Options should ask 
Mr L's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer value had he not transferred his pension. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return index should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to 
be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds 
had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr L has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed to have no value. 
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment 
I understand Options has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair 
approach in the circumstances of this case, as it may allow the SIPP to close and gives 
Options the option of retaining the investment or realising its current market value. 
I understand Mr L has the option of returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for nil 
consideration. That may enable him to close his SIPP if Options does not take ownership of 
the Store First investment. In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and 
Mr L decides not to transfer it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all 
future costs associated with that investment such as business rates, ground rent and any other 
charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further complaint 
about these costs.
3. Pay compensation to Mr L for loss he has suffered calculated in 1
Since the loss Mr L has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr L could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using his marginal rate 
of tax.
On the other hand, Mr L may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to him direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr L should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ls marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if he would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr L or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Options receives notification of his acceptance of this final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within 28 days. My final decision
For the reasons given, its my final decision that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld and that 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP should calculate and pay fair redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman