DRN-3563708
The complaint
L Ltd, represented by its directors Mr and Mrs E, complained because National Westminster 
Bank Plc refused to refund transactions which had been fraudulently carried out by one of L 
Ltds employees. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had a lettings agency, L Ltd. In around 2010, they decided to travel, and they 
had other businesses, so they appointed a manager for L Ltd.  
L Ltd, as a lettings business, had around 100 transactions a day, including incoming tenant 
payments, outgoing maintenance costs, and outgoing payments to tenants. So when Mr and 
Mrs E decided to go abroad, they phoned NatWest and asked if they could add the manager 
to L Ltds account. They said NatWest refused, because of security reasons. They then 
asked if the manager could have separate log-in details, and they said NatWest again 
refused, because L Ltds bank account didnt belong to him. Mr and Mrs E felt they had no 
choice but to give the manager the log-in details, because of the nature of the business. 
Mr and Mrs E returned at several points during the years, and asked the manager about the 
business, which he said was ok. For some years this worked well. After a few years, an 
assistant was also appointed. L Ltd also had a book-keeper and an accountant.
In about September 2020, the manager rang Mr and Mrs E, and said he was going to have 
to give in his notice. In the call, the manager said that he needed to tell them some things. 
He said that for some time there hadnt been enough money in the business to pay him or 
the assistant manager, so hed stolen around £10,000 in housing benefit money coming in to 
the business. He told them it had happened over about two years, and the matter was with 
the police. He also said there had been a court case and a county court judgment.
Mr and Mrs E later discovered there had been other fraud as well. The manager had made 
some payments from L Ltds account to pay his own household bills; some to his own 
external account; and some to a new business which hed set up for himself.
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs E contacted NatWest. They told NatWest that theyd employed 
the manager for 11 years, and theyd had no reason not to trust him. Theyd been abroad, 
and explained that their previous accountant, whod died, hadnt picked up the fraud, and it 
wasnt noticed until the replacement accountant was appointed. They sent NatWest L Ltds 
bank statements going back to 2017, with the disputed transactions highlighted. These 
included a mixture of transactions, by card and non-card, and the total was around £13,000.
NatWest didnt agree to refund L Ltd. It said that as theyd allowed the manager to use the 
card, and he had breached their trust, it would be a civil matter. Mrs E asked why this hadnt 
been pointed out to her when she opened the account, and NatWest said it would have been 
in the terms and conditions. L Ltd complained, saying they hadnt been verbally advised of 
this, and they wanted to see where it said this in the terms and conditions.
In NatWests final response letter, it confirmed that it declined the fraud case, because Mr 
and Mrs E had disclosed L Ltds banking details and codes etc to an employee who then 
committed fraud. Disclosing the information had been a breach of the terms and conditions 
of the account. NatWest said that L Ltds directors would have signed a general document 
when they opened the account, stating they agreed to the terms and conditions, which would 
have been supplied separately. 
Mr and Mrs E replied that they were dissatisfied with their NatWest business relationship 
manager, as they hadnt fully discussed L Ltds account, online banking, and terms and 
conditions, when theyd opened the account. NatWest agreed with this element, and 
apologised for the service provided. It also said it would send a copy of the opening 
paperwork. But it said the outcome to L Ltds original complaint hadnt changed.
L Ltd, represented by Mr and Mrs E, complained to this service. They explained what had 
happened, and said that the manager had needed the banking details to do his day-to-day 
job. NatWest had refused to give the manager his own log-in details, and hed worked for 
them for some years, so theyd trusted him  and felt there had been no option but to give 
him the banking details. They also said that NatWest had recently said it couldnt find the 
opening paperwork, and the copy of the terms and conditions it had sent had dated from 
2018, which was after theyd opened the account. 
Mrs E also told our investigator that it had never been made clear that all responsibility was 
with the account holder if fraud was committed in these circumstances.  And she said that 
NatWest shouldnt have accepted their business, if it couldnt accommodate a business 
model which required a manager to have access to the companys finances. 
Mr and Mrs E also said that the police had said it was a complex fraud, and even if theyd 
logged in every other day, it wouldnt have been glaringly obvious. 
Our investigator didnt uphold L Ltds complaint. He said that if a customer allows a third 
party to appear as if they had the authority to make transactions, the transactions would 
count as authorised, even if the customer hadnt asked the third party to make them. And in 
any case, account holders can become liable for unauthorised payments if they havent met 
certain obligations  in particular, keeping their security details safe and not disclosing them 
to a third party.
Mr and Mrs E, for L Ltd, didnt agree. Mrs E pointed out that NatWest hadnt produced the 
terms and conditions from when they opened the account, and NatWests entire argument 
for not refunding the fraudulent payments had been based on that. She said that this was the 
centre of the dispute, and the most crucial piece of information had been lost among other 
irrelevant information. She was unhappy that the investigator had said it was likely that L Ltd 
had received the terms and conditions, and said that NatWest should have kept the original 
copy on file. 
Mrs E also asked how else directors were supposed to use a manager to make payments? 
The investigator said they could add someone to the account, but Mrs E said NatWest had 
definitely told them they couldnt add a third party to the business account. She said they 
hadnt been told the manager couldnt have access, just that he couldnt have separate 
access.
L Ltd asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs E have been through such a difficult experience. 
Being a victim of fraud is always traumatic, and it would have felt much worse in this 
situation, where they had trusted their manager. Mrs E told us that before the fraud, theyd 
developed a friendship with him. I do understand that it would have been particularly 
shocking and upsetting to discover the significant fraud in these circumstances. Theyve also 
told us that the fraud had serious consequences for the business, so they were in the 
process of closing the business, as well as liaising with the police about the criminal charges 
against their former manager. So I realise that Mr and Mrs E have had a really difficult time.
What the regulations say
There are regulations about disputed transactions, called the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. Its these which govern the decision I make. 
In general terms, the regulations say that the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say 
that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain 
circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent 
that it can be termed gross negligence.
This means that what determines whether or not NatWest has to refund L Ltd, is whether or 
not the payments were authorised.
Authorisation doesnt have to be by the account holder in person. Its possible for a customer 
to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on their behalf, so that theyd be 
liable for them, even if they didnt physically make them themselves or give their explicit 
authority for them. That means that a bank can hold a customer liable for any transactions 
that happened because they gave someone authority to act on their behalf. Here, that 
means that when Mr and Mrs E provided the manager with the security details, they were 
giving him apparent authority.
Clearly, here, Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have wanted the disputed payments to be made if 
theyd known what was happening. But the regulations Ive mentioned dont distinguish 
between why someone may make a payment, or allow a payment to be made. If authority is 
given that allows payments to be made, the regulations permit a bank to hold a customer 
liable for them.
Whether it would have made any difference if NatWest had allowed the manager to be a 
signatory on L Ltds account
Mr and Mrs E have explained that they had asked NatWest to add the manager to the 
account, giving him his own login with his own credentials, and that they had also asked for 
him to be added to the account. So they said that as the manager needed access to the 
account, they had no option but to provide him with their security login details. I do 
understand that they had a difficulty here, and NatWest also accepted in its final response 
letter that L Ltd didnt have good service from its relationship manager.
But unfortunately the fact is that, in whatever way the manager was provided with access to 
L Ltds account, which he needed to do the job, the outcome would have been the same. 
The process for adding a signatory varies from one bank to another. Its unusual if NatWest 
didnt allow L Ltd to add a manager as an extra signatory, subject to completion of relevant 
forms and verification. But if it had, the manager would then have been empowered to make 
the payments. Any such arrangement could only have been set up with the consent of the existing directors Mr and Mrs E. And by providing that consent, theyd have been giving the 
manager the apparent authority to conduct transactions on L Ltds account. So the outcome 
would still have been that, as the payments had been properly authorised, NatWest wouldnt 
have had to refund L Ltd. 
Terms and conditions 
Mr and Mrs E have said that the most important point is about the terms and conditions, 
because NatWest hasnt been able to provide them with a signed copy to prove that they 
accepted these when they opened L Ltds accounts. In practice, its the Payment Services 
Regulations which govern whether or not L Ltd gets a refund, but for completeness Ill set 
out the situation about the terms and conditions.
L Ltds account was opened in 2014. NatWest has provided us with terms and conditions 
dated November 2012, which we can forward to L Ltd if theyd like. Ive checked these and 
they say:
15.9 The Customer must comply with any security measures required by the Bank and 
take all other reasonable steps, to prevent security details from being used by any 
unauthorised person.
15.10 The Customer is liable for all payments by someone who has security details, or a 
card or its details, with the Customers consent.
Mr and Mrs E say that NatWest should be able to provide evidence that theyd signed to 
accept the terms and conditions. And theyve also asked how, in these circumstances, any 
business can delegate to an employee for them to do their day job.  Ill deal with these in 
turn.
First, although it would be preferable for NatWest to be able to provide proof that L Ltds 
directors accepted the terms and conditions, I dont consider its essential. Thats because 
its standard practice for all financial organisations to require a customer to accept terms and 
conditions, in order to open a new account. This might not have been a handwritten 
signature. It might, for example, have been a tick box online without which the customer 
couldnt proceed. Or it might have formed part of a general declaration before the signature 
box  or a number of other ways. But I think its very unlikely indeed that A Ltds directors 
didnt consent to terms and conditions.
But even if, exceptionally, they hadnt been required to accept the terms and conditions 
which included keeping security details safe, and not disclosing to a third party, the 
Regulations which Ive referred to above would lead to the same outcome. 
 
Whether NatWest should have taken on L Ltds business
Mr and Mrs E think that NatWest shouldnt have taken on L Ltds business if there was no 
scope for the business to operate within normal business circumstances of appointing a 
manager.  I understand why theyre distressed about the fraud. But I cant see that NatWest 
should have refused to open L Ltds account, or that it should have told the directors that 
they should close the account, when they enquired a few years later about allowing the 
manager to carry out payments. Im surprised that NatWest didnt allow L Ltd to complete 
forms and add the manager to the account,  but as Ive explained above, ultimately that 
wouldnt change the outcome here. The dishonest managers payments were authorised by 
apparent authority having been given the bank login details. And the payments would still 
have been authorised, albeit more directly, if hed been officially added to the account.  Ultimately, any business which employs staff takes a risk that the employee is honest. Some 
employers take out insurance against this. But essentially, this was a dispute within L Ltd, 
between the directors and their employee. The real problem was that a person whom they 
trusted, sadly turned out to be dishonest. 
This is very hard for Mr and Mrs E, who were the innocent victims here. But under the 
Payment Services Regulations, these transactions counted as authorised, because Mr and 
Mrs E provided the manager with L Ltds bank details, so had given him apparent authority. 
NatWest cant be held responsible for fraud by the manager in these circumstances  any 
more than it would have been liable if, say, one of the directors had defrauded the company. 
It would also have been the same outcome if NatWest had let Mr and Mrs E add the 
manager to L Ltds account. Such matters would be between L Ltd and its employee, and a 
civil or criminal matter, not a banking issue. So its not open to me to uphold L Ltds 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman