DRN-2015078
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) gave him unsuitable investment advice in 
2008. He wasnt aware of the risks to his capital, the recommendations lacked 
diversification, and he should have been advised to fully utilise his ISA allowance.
What happened
On BoSs advice Mr W invested £3,600 in a corporate bond fund within an ISA wrapper and 
£21,400 in a Personal Investment Plan (PIP) bond in its managed income fund. Both 
investments are ongoing.
Mr Ws representative said:
He was 62 at the time of advice, had little investment experience and his objective 
was to use this capital to supplement his income
Putting so much of his money in one fund lacked the necessary diversification
His ISA allowance was available during the year the bond started and this should 
have been used
If hed been advised to put this money in an OEIC or unit trust he could have moved 
funds to benefit from each subsequent years ISA allowance and avoided any 
charges on surrender
Mr W was not informed of other more suitable products with far lower charges
 
BoS rejected his complaint, saying it was satisfied the advice had been suitable. It said Mr W 
had chosen to reduce the amount he invested from £30,000 to £25,000 and that this sum 
represented just under half of his available capital. Both products were suitably low/medium 
in risk. It said the PIP contained a wide variety of assets while the charges were fairly typical 
for these types of investments  and clearly spelt out.
It said its OIEC needed a minimum investment of £30,000 at the time and it did not have a 
low/medium risk fund which produced a regular income. Further it was satisfied that its 
advisor would have explained he could only discuss a limited product range.
An investigator at this service felt that the advice had been broadly suitable for Mr Ws 
circumstances and objectives, and so didnt believe the complaint should be upheld. 
He said the corporate bond fund was low risk and helped fully utilise his ISA allowances 
(given he had already maximised his cash ISA allowance for that year). He thought the PIP 
was a low/medium risk investment with a broad asset mix and met Mr Ws need for regular 
income and potential capital growth. He noted that Mr W had discussed things with the 
advisor three times before going ahead. He also thought the charges were clearly spelt out 
and not out of line with other providers/businesses.
Mr Ws representative did not agree, and said:The same mix of assets could have been accessed through more tax-efficient 
products including greater ISA usage
The PIP exposed Mr W to internal taxes unlike an OEIC or unit trust-based products 
where monies could have been transferred into the ISA wrapper as subsequent 
years allowances became available. This was not possible via a PIP
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is not clear if Mr Ws representative is complaining about the corporate bond 
recommendation but I am satisfied this was a reasonable recommendation. It utilised the 
remaining investment portion of Mr Ws ISA allowance and was a low-risk product. The 
advisor fully explained the reasons for this recommendation and I feel Mr W was in a 
position to decide whether to expose this modest portion of his money to the modest risk 
posed by a corporate bond-based product.
In relation to the PIP recommendation, I agree with the investigator and for the same 
reasons. The evidence suggests the advice fairly assessed Mr W's circumstances and 
objectives; crucially, the need for a fairly low risk investment which would provide regular 
income. The PIP met those two criteria.
I also feel it was reasonable to recommend investing £30,000 (even though Mr W slightly 
reduced this figure) given Mr W had around £90,000 in assets (including some planned 
expenditure and current account surplus). The recommendation to invest around half of the 
money not held in premium bonds wasn't unreasonable as a means of seeking to provide 
the necessary regular income.
I am also satisfied that the PIP contained a sufficient spread of assets and don't agree with 
Mr W's representative that it lacked appropriate diversification.
Finally, my role and that of this service, is to assess whether a recommendation was suitable 
for a customer, not to consider whether other alternatives might have been equally suitable 
or, arguably, marginally more suitable. So I don't accept that the advisor was required to 
discuss other alternative products such as those referred to by Mr W's representative.
I also don't accept that Mr W, who was likely to be a non-taxpayer should necessarily have 
been advised that he ought to take out an investment which would allow him to move money 
into ISA protection each year. Had he been a higher-rate taxpayer this might have been a 
more important consideration. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman