DRN-1185449
 
The complaint
Mr D says he was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened 
Mr D was sold a PPI policy in June 1995 to cover his mortgage a few years after it had 
commenced. The policy wouldve covered Mr Ds mortgage repayments if he was too sick to 
work or became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he thought the way the 
information was set out in the paperwork suggested Mr D had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr D. 
Mr D disagrees. He says he was told he had to take the cover and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr D that he had a choice in taking the policy. Mr D says this 
wasnt done and that he was told he had to take the cover. But at the time the policy was 
sold Mr Ds mortgage had been in place for a number of years and I can see that Mr D 
completed an entirely separate application form with a different business from the mortgage 
for the MPPI. 
So I think he wouldve understood he could have the mortgage without PPI  as his 
mortgage was already in place  and I think he completed the application form for MPPI 
because he chose to do so because he wanted the cover. 
To be fair to Mr D I am going to treat the sale of MPPI as if BOS advised Mr D to take the 
policy. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about MPPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr D could make an informed choice about buying 
MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend MPPI that the policy was 
suitable for Mr Ds needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D for the following reasons: 
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr D says that at the time the policy was sold he had a redundancy payment sitting 
in his bank account and didnt need the cover. Ive seen evidence that Mr D was 
made redundant a year before he took out the policy but Im unable to say how much 
redundancy he received or how much he had left - if any. And given he chose to take 
out a standalone policy to cover his mortgage a year after being made redundant I 
think suggests he thought the policy would have been of benefit to him should he be 
made redundant again. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and 
savings for potentially longer, covering him for up to 12 months if he was too sick to 
work or became unemployed. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr D in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think 
Mr D wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr D at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.  
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr D information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I can see the costs are clear from the MPPI application but I dont know if BOS did give all 
the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and 
based on what Mr D has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still 
taken out the MPPI policy if hed been given all the proper information.
So this means Mr D isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman