DRN-3503764
The complaint
Mr R has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has charged him cash 
transaction fees and interest when he doesnt believe these charges were transparent.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with Halifax in December 2021. He made two deposits into a 
share dealing account. Mr R then found out these were considered as cash transactions and 
would therefore attract fees and interest. He complained to Halifax.
Halifax confirmed these transactions attract fees and interest and this was noted in their 
terms and conditions. They were willing to refund £250 being the largest fee as goodwill.
Mr R rejected this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He was adamant 
that he was unable to view the terms and conditions on the Halifax app.
Our investigator tried to mediate Mr Rs complaint with Halifax, but they wouldnt do anything 
further. Overall he agreed Halifax had acted within their terms and conditions.
Mr R remained dissatisfied. His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr R and Halifax. 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im also aware our investigator wrote a detailed view dated 5 April 2022.
I dont believe theres any dispute that Halifax has applied interest and fees as laid out in 
their terms and conditions. Mr R believes those charges should be waived as he was unable 
to view them through the app. He is adamant that Halifax accepts this.
I dont agree. Mr R took out this credit card in December 2021. It seems to me that one of his 
main reasons for doing so was to use the card to deposit cash into his share dealing 
account. He didnt read the terms and conditions. Frankly Mr R wont have been the first 
customer not to read their terms and conditions. I suspect it was that aspect Halifax were 
referring to when they said in their final response that he may not have been fully aware of 
what was in them. 
Mr R believes Halifax was referring to the unavailability through the app. I dont think so. 
There were numerous ways of Mr R accessing the terms and conditions  using the website 
 if hed wished to.
Mr R confirms he looked at what fees applied to cash transactions but admits he didnt click 
through to the further detail. He didnt think from what he saw  the reference to cash 
machine withdrawals and foreign exchange fees  that further information would apply to 
him. But Mr R knows he was using his credit card as a way of lodging cash on his share-
dealing account so Im surprised he didnt take that extra step to check no charges or 
interest would apply.
Im satisfied Halifax has applied their terms and conditions and see no reason why these 
shouldnt apply.
Halifax continues to offer Mr R £250 as a refund on the largest fee. Mr R has continued to 
refuse this offer but Im satisfied this remains open to him. Mr R has also refused to pay 
interest due on these transactions which has continued to build.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman