DRN-4432674
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Link Financial (Link) 
unfairly recorded a default on her credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss Z took out a loan with a business Ill call F that fell into arrears. Miss Z went on to make 
payments via a debt advice service Ill refer to as S. The last payment F received on Miss Zs 
behalf from S was for £82.49 in March 2021. Miss Z says that S contacted F to request 
confirmation of whether the outstanding balance had been repaid and advised her loan was 
closed when no response was received.
In November 2022 Link acquired a loan from F in Miss Zs name with an outstanding 
balance of £258.74. Link says it wrote to Miss Z at the address it was given by F. Links 
records show it sent Miss Z a letter on 28 November 2022 followed by a default notice on 26 
January 2023. A termination notice was sent on 17 February 2023 confirming the loan had 
been closed. Link went on to record a default on Miss Zs credit file.
In March 2023 Link sent Miss Z a Notice of Assignment that said it had taken ownership of 
the outstanding loan balance from F. Link later explained it wrote to Miss Zs current address 
after completing a trace. Link suggested that it had been writing to Miss Zs old address. 
Miss Z complained and explained that she thought the loan balance had been repaid in full 
via S in 2021. Miss Z explained F hadnt contacted her or S about the remaining balance. 
And Miss Z pointed out that Link had sent the default notice to her old address but had later 
been able to trace her at her current address when issuing the Notice of Assignment. Miss Z
asked Link to remove the default from her credit file.
Link issued a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Link said Miss Zs last 
payment was made in March 2021 so its decision to record a default in January 2023 was a 
fair reflection of how her account had been handled.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Zs complaint. They thought Link had dealt with 
Miss Zs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss Z asked to appeal so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I accept there was an outstanding loan that Link acquired from F, I think the decision 
to apply a default in January 2023 was unfair. Ill explain why.
When a lender acquires a debt in the way Miss Zs loan was purchased by Link the rules 
require it to send a Notice of Assignment to the borrower as soon as reasonably possible. In 
March 2023, Link sent Miss Z a Notice of Assignment to confirm it had taken ownership of 
her loan, around five months after the fact. But by the time Link had written to Miss Z with its 
Notice of Assignment to confirm the new arrangements, it had already terminated her loan 
and recorded a default on her credit file. In my view, it was premature of Link to take the step 
of issuing a default or termination notice to Miss Z before it confirmed the change in
ownership and arrangements for her loan. At the time Link sent those letters, Miss Z hadnt 
been notified that it was authorised to discuss her loan, accept payments or take the step of 
closing it. I see no reason why Link was able to follow the termination process but wasnt in a 
position to issue a Notice of Assignment as is required by the rules. In my view, the way 
Miss Zs loan was administered was unfair.
I would add that whilst Miss Z may not have updated her address with F, from her 
perspective she believed the loan balance had been repaid in full. I can understand why 
Miss Z may not have gone on to update her address with a lender she thought had been 
repaid.
In response to the investigator, Miss Z pointed out that Link had been able to trace her in 
March 2023 so shouldve been able to do the same in November 2022 when it acquired her 
account. I agree with Miss Z that Link shouldve done more to trace her before applying the 
default. Especially given that no payment or contact had been made with F since March 
2021. In my view, it wouldve been fairer too Miss Z for Link to have completed the tracing 
exercise when it took ownership of her account rather than waiting for it to have already 
been closed at default.
Im satisfied that if Link had managed to trace Miss Z and confirm ownership of the loan 
before it took the step of issuing the default notice, she wouldve made contact to discuss the 
account.
Its unclear why the loan was left open for so long after payments ceased. Normally, wed 
expect a business to close an account and record a default when arrears reach between 
three and six months. Here the account remained open until it was transferred to Link in 
November 2022, around 19 months later. Whilst Link isnt responsible for the way Miss Zs 
account was administered before that date, I think it couldve done more to investigate her 
dispute concerning payments made up to March 2021.
Ive gone on to look at whether Link was collecting a legitimate balance and how to resolve 
Miss Zs complaint. Link has supplied a detailed account history from F and I can see that 
when Miss Zs payments ceased in March 2021 there was an outstanding balance of 
£213.56. When Link purchased the account it had a balance of £258.74 due to interest that 
was then applied. Whilst I understand Miss Z mayve been advised by S that the balance 
was repaid, the statement evidence doesnt support that. Im satisfied that Link did acquire a 
debt in Miss Zs name that had an outstanding balance. In the circumstances, Im satisfied
its fair for Link to request repayment.
I think the fairest way to resolve the complaint would be that if within four weeks of 
acceptance of a final decision Miss Z clears the outstanding balance of £258.74 or reaches 
an agreement to make affordable repayments, Link should delete the default from her credit 
file. Once repaid in full, Link should mark its account as settled in January 2023 without 
recording any other adverse information.
In my view, the issues Miss Z raised have caused a reasonable level of trouble and upset for 
her, in addition to having a default unfairly recorded on her credit file. So I also intend to tell 
Link to pay Miss Z £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments, information or evidence they 
wanted to provide in response to my provisional decision. Miss Z responded to say Link had 
recently contacted her to confirm the final outstanding balance was £90.76 and that she was 
willing to proceed in line with the provisional decision. 
Link responded and said another part of its business, Asset Link Capital, had acquired the 
debt before it was closed at default. Link added that default notices had been issued in 
January 2023 and the account was closed when no payment was received. Link also 
confirmed it had reduced the outstanding balance to £90.76 by refunding interest that had 
been applied to the outstanding balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Link has explained that the account was assigned to it by Asset Link Capital (another part of 
Links group of businesses) shortly after it was closed at default. And its confirmed that 
Asset Link Capital sent default notices to the address it had on file for Miss Z. That explains 
why the Notice of Assignment Link issued wasnt sent until March 2023, despite the account 
being closed at default in February 2023. 
Links provided further background surrounding how the default process was handled. And 
its made the point that payments towards the outstanding balance stopped in March 2021. 
But Miss Z has explained that her payments ceased on the advice of S when her payment 
plan ended. Miss Z has explained that S contacted all her creditors and asked them to 
confirm whether any outstanding balances remained. When no contact was received from F 
(the original lender) S confirmed no further payments were due. I accept there was an 
outstanding balance, but I remain satisfied that Miss Z was acting on the advice of her debt 
advisors at the time and that she genuinely thought all payments due had been made. 
It appears Asset Link Capital acquired the debt in November 2022 (although no evidence 
has been supplied to show it issued a Notice of Assignment at that time). By that point, no 
payments had been received for around 18 months and Miss Z had moved. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I wouldnt have expected Miss Z to update F about a change of address 
relating to an account shed been advised was repaid. When Asset Link Capital acquired the 
debt, it sent collections letters and the default notice to Miss Zs old address. I can see that it 
was only after the account had been terminated in default and passed to Link that a tracing 
exercise located Miss Zs current address. 
Given the length of time between her last payment and the transfer of ownership, I think 
more shouldve been done to find Miss Zs up to date address and contact her before taking 
the step of closing the account at default. Once it attempted to do so, Link was able to locate 
Miss Zs address reasonably quickly. I think its more likely than not that Miss Z wouldve 
made arrangements to clear the balance before the default was put in place if earlier contact 
had been made. 
So whilst I note everything Link has said and provided, I still think Miss Zs complaint should 
be upheld. Links response confirmed it refunded interest applied to the outstanding balance, bring it 
down to £90.76. As I said in my provisional decision, Link should contact Miss Z to make 
arrangements for an affordable repayment plan to be agreed for the remaining balance or 
accept a payment in full. I remain of the view that the way Miss Zs account has been 
handled has caused her an unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience, so Im still 
awarding £250. If Miss Z would like Link to deduct the outstanding balance from this part of 
the award, to bring matters to a close, she can ask our investigator to arrange that with Link 
on settlement of the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Zs complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited 
trading as Link Financial to settle as follows: 
- If, within 28 days of accepting the final decision, Miss Z makes a payment to repay 
the outstanding balance or agrees an affordable payment plan, remove the default 
from her credit file and report the loan as settled in January 2023 without recording 
any other adverse information
- Pay Miss Z £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman