DRN-3149465
The complaint
Mr T complained that MBNA Limited reported missed payments on his accounts with them 
despite COVID payment deferrals being agreed. This resulted in adverse information 
reported on his credit file.
What happened
Mr T had two credit card accounts with MBNA. His earnings stopped as a result of the 
impact of the global pandemic. So, he called MBNA on 23 March 2020 to explain his 
situation.
MBNA agreed to provide breathing space for a period of 30 days for both of his accounts. 
They said no interest or charges would be applied during this time. MBNA also said Mr T 
wouldnt have to make his contractual payments during this period. They asked Mr T to call 
them again by 21 April 2020 to review the situation.
Mr T said he completed a form online for a payment break due to the global pandemic. He 
said his application was successful. But he was later contacted by MBNA and told hed 
missed two payments. Mr T said MBNA recorded the missed payments on his credit file 
which impacted his ability to secure further credit.
Mr T called MBNA to complain in June 2020. He told them hed applied for a payment 
deferral online. He said they hadnt properly explained the breathing space they provided or 
the payment deferral option. As a result, his account fell into arrears and this impacted on his 
credit file with the credit reference agencies. He told MBNA this had caused him distress and 
inconvenience. He wanted them to apply the payment deferral and remove the adverse 
information from his credit file.
MBNA didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They had no record hed applied for a 
payment deferral. They told Mr T that because his accounts were now already in arrears, he 
no longer qualified for support under the payment deferral scheme. Mr T wasnt happy with 
MBNAs response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer matters to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. She couldnt see 
any evidence that Mr T had applied to MBNA for a payment deferral. She asked Mr T to 
provide evidence confirming his application and acceptance. But unfortunately, this wasnt 
available. So, our adjudicator thought MBNA hadnt made a mistake or acted unfairly here.
Mr T didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He said he was unaware of the difference 
between breathing space and a payment deferral as nobody had explained this. He said his 
first contact was made online completing a payment deferral form which now appears to 
have gone missing. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Mr Ts first approach to MBNA predated the FCAs guidance. So, MBNAs agreement to 
provide 30 days breathing space didnt fall under the deferral scheme introduced within the 
FCAs guidance. 
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ts call to MBNA at that time. Mr T made it clear that he had 
difficulty meeting his credit card payments as a direct consequence of the impacts of global 
pandemic. MBNA explained theyd provide 30 days breathing space and review the situation 
again on expiry. They told Mr T that no interest or charges would be incurred during that 
period and made it clear that Mr T must contact them again at the end of the 30 days. 
MBNA suggested he cancel his payment direct debit. But they also told him that any missed 
payment would still be due, and the arrears may impact his credit file. So, I think its very 
clear that Mr T needed to contact MBNA again to update them. I havent found anything to 
suggest he did that.
Mr T said he applied for a payment deferral by completing an online form  which he said 
was successful. But hes not been able to provide anything to support this. MBNA have 
provided details of all their file notes and records relating to the period concerned. Theyve 
confirmed theres no record of an application from Mr T. Ive not found anything to contradict 
this.
So, while I accept Mr T believes he applied for a payment deferral, I cant reasonably 
conclude that this was successfully completed or confirmed by MBNA.
Mr T told our adjudicator he was unaware of the difference between breathing space and a 
payment deferral. He said no one explained this to him. Having listened to the call recording, 
I believe MBNA made it very clear he needed to call them back within 30 days. Mr T also 
told our adjudicator that his first contact with MBNA was online filling out the holiday 
payments form. MBNAs records show that his call of 23 March 2020 was his first contact. 
This predated the FCAs guidance. So, a payment deferral application wouldnt have been 
available.
I appreciate that Mr Ts financial circumstances were impacted by the effects of the global 
pandemic. By contacting MBNA, he did the right thing to ensure they could support him. But 
having not contacted them again, as agreed, MBNA wouldnt reasonably have been aware 
of his circumstances once the 30 days had expired. Had he contacted them; MBNA wouldve 
been able to consider providing a payment deferral under the FCAs guidance.
While I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed, I cant reasonably say that MBNA did anything 
wrong or treated Mr T unfairly here. So, I shant be asking them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman