DRN-3656324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds service under their private 
health insurance. They are represented in this complaint by their financial adviser.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a private health insurance policy with AXA from 1 May 2021. They took 
out the policy through an independent broker and had switched from a policy with another 
insurer on a continued underwriting basis.
On 2 September 2021 Mr S told AXA hed been referred by his GP to an NHS specialist 
about pains in his chest but it was taking too long to be seen and he wanted to discuss 
making a claim to be seen privately.
Mr and Mrs S representative said as a result of that conversation with AXA Mr S understood 
the policy already had an exclusion for his heart and as they wouldnt have bought the policy 
if theyd known about the exclusion Mr S contacted his insurance broker to cancel the policy.
On 6 September 2021 Mr and Mrs S broker contacted AXA to say Mr S had asked for the 
policy to be cancelled. AXA gave the broker details about the refund amount and the broker 
called later that day to confirm Mr and Mrs S wanted to cancel the policy.
On 20 September 2021 Mr S called AXA to confirm the cancellation of his policy and AXA 
said cancellation had been actioned.
On 11 October 2021 Mr S contacted AXA as he was unhappy with AXAs refund calculation. 
He said he hadnt been told of the cancellation process during the sale of the policy. AXA 
referred Mr S to his policy terms and conditions about the process and refund.
After the policy had been cancelled Mr and Mrs S representative said the broker told Mr S 
the cancelled policy didnt have an existing exclusion for Mr S heart.
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs S complained that AXA had wrongly told Mr S there was a 
heart exclusion on the policy and about the amount of  premium refund they received.
AXA said an exclusion for Mr S heart hadnt been applied to the policy and it hadnt told him 
there was an exclusion. AXA also said it had calculated the premium refund in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs S, through their representative, complained to us about AXA and the broker. 
Weve considered the complaint about the broker separately. In summary Mr and Mrs S 
representative said:
Mr S had asked AXA repeatedly if a heart exclusion had been applied to the policy 
and AXA said it had been. 
If AXA had provided correct information and communicated with Mr S clearly and 
appropriately to someone of his older age then Mr S wouldnt have been misled 
about the exclusion being on the policy and wouldnt have cancelled the policy. 
AXA had treated a vulnerable customer unfairly.
Mr and Mrs S want a recalculation of the premium refund, which their representative 
detailed, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs 
poor service.
Our investigator said AXA hadnt given Mr S incorrect information and had acted reasonably 
during the calls. He also said AXA had calculated the premium refund in line with the policy 
terms. He sent Mr and Mrs S representative the relevant call recordings between Mr S and 
AXA.
Mr and Mrs S representative disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said there 
are two parts of the relevant call between AXA and Mr S - before and after AXAs 
representative spoke to the underwriting team. And as Mr S had thought AXAs 
representative wasnt sufficiently experienced to provide confirmation of the position it was 
unfair for us to primarily rely on the information AXA had given Mr S in the first part of the 
call to say AXA acted reasonably. Mr and Mrs S representative gave examples of what had 
been said in the second part of the call which he said showed Mr S didnt understand what 
AXA had told him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about Mr and Mrs S complaint about the insurer, AXA. Ive made a 
separate decision about their complaint about the broker.
I have to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all the points Mr and Mrs S representative made in making my decision but 
Im not going to respond to each point, Ill focus on why I think AXA acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs S representative initially said the call between Mr S and AXA which lead Mr S to 
believe there was already an exclusion on the policy was on 9 September 2021. AXA said it 
has no record of a call with Mr S on that date. Given the sequence of events outlined in the 
background above I thinks its more likely that not that the relevant call is the 2 September 
2021 call.
Mr and Mrs S representative has said Mr S is vulnerable due to his age and AXA didnt 
communicate with him appropriately for his age. While AXA would have been aware of Mr 
and Mrs S age we wouldnt expect AXA to assume a consumer is vulnerable just because of 
their age. If during the calls there was evidence of Mr S confusion and inability to 
understand were likely to expect AXA to offer to respond to those needs.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr S and AXA. I dont accept Mr and Mrs S 
representatives suggestion that its unfair for us to take into account what AXA told Mr S in 
the first part of the 2 September call. I dont think Mr S could reasonably ignore what AXA 
had told him in the first part of the call.Im satisfied that AXA didnt give wrong or misleading information to Mr S about an exclusion 
already being on the policy because:
In the first part of the call Mr S told AXA that in June or July 2021 or earlier hed been 
referred by his GP to see a NHS specialist about his chest pains. AXA said to Mr S 
that when he bought the policy hed told it no treatment was planned or pending. Im 
satisfied that AXA made clear to Mr S that it may need further information from his 
GP to be able to confirm cover for his claim and if the referral happened before taking 
out the policy AXA wouldnt cover the condition. 
When the second part of the call started AXAs representative told Mr S the 
underwriter confirmed that if there was something pending before Mr S took out the 
policy it would apply an exclusion and AXA wouldnt be able to cover Mr S chest pain 
and associated symptoms for the first two years of the policy. So Im satisfied that 
AXA continued to be clear to Mr S that cover for his chest pains would depend on 
whether the referral had been made before Mr and Mrs S took out the policy.
From Mr S questions and responses during the call Im satisfied that AXA could 
reasonably believe Mr S understood that adding the exclusion would depend on 
whether the referral had been made before the policy was taken out. 
Ive not heard any evidence that AXA told Mr S an exclusion in relation to his heart or 
chest pain had already been added to his policy.
Mr S told AXA during the second part of the call that he didnt have the date of referral to 
hand. I havent seen any evidence of the date of the GPs NHS referral. If it was before Mr 
and Mrs S bought the policy then AXA would have applied the exclusion as it detailed, and 
from what Mr S has said he would have cancelled the poilcy anyway. 
If the NHS referral was after they bought the policy no exclusion would have been applied. 
Mr S says in that event he wouldnt have cancelled the policy. But as Im satisfied that the 
information AXA gave him in the call was correct and not misleading I dont think AXA did  
anything wrong which resulted in Mr S cancelling the policy.
Ive also listened to the call between Mr S and AXA on 20 September 2021. Mr S told AXA 
the policy had an exclusion which neutralised the benefit of being with AXA but Mr S clear 
purpose of the call was to check that AXA was acting on his instructions to cancel the policy. 
Given what Mr S said in that call I dont think AXA reasonably needed to check within that 
call if the exclusion had been added. I think AXA could reasonably act on what Mr S told it 
and as the purpose of the call was Mr S checking cancellation of the policy AXA acted 
reasonably in confirming the policy would be cancelled on 1 October. 
As I find that AXA acted fairly and reasonably and didnt give Mr S incorrect or misleading 
information theres no basis for me to say it must pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S.
As to the premium refund, the policy says:
Cancelling your membership outside of the cooling off period
After your cooling off period:
 if you pay monthly you can cancel your plan from the next monthly payment date.
 If you pay annually you can cancel your plan and receive a pro-rata refund based 
on whole months remaining in the year. We will deduct an administration fee of £20 
and the costs of any claims for that year.
Ive seen AXAs calculation for Mr and Mrs S premium refund and its in line with the above 
policy terms. Theres no basis for me to say it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to 
increase the refund payment. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman