DRN-3066018
The complaint
Ms B and Mr J complain that Charwin Private Clients Ltd (Charwin) mis-sold them a life and 
critical illness policy and didnt tell them they needed to cancel their existing cover.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2013 Charwin organised life and critical illness cover for Ms B and Mr J alongside their 
mortgage. In 2016 a mortgage review took place because the couple were increasing their 
borrowing. Charwin recommended replacement cover to ensure there was no shortfall in 
their mortgage protection.   
In 2020 Ms B and Mr J discovered theyd been paying for two policies. They arranged for the 
2013 policy to be cancelled and complained to Charwin. It said the statement of demands 
and needs letter (the 2016 statement) signed by Ms B and Mr J in October 2016 made it 
clear this was a replacement policy  and that existing policies shouldnt be cancelled until 
the new cover is in place. But that the onus was on the customer to cancel any such policy. 
Charwin also thought the replacement cover was suitable for the couples needs at the time, 
and therefore wasnt mis-sold. 
Ms B and Mr J didnt agree and referred their complaint to our service. They said it hadnt 
been made clear to them in the 2016 statement that they needed to cancel the existing 
policy, and as such theyd been paying for two policies for almost four years. Ms B and Mrs J 
also questioned why their existing policy couldnt have been amended, and suggested 
Charwin had only recommended replacement cover to generate commission. They wanted 
their premiums refunded.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the replacement policy 
wasnt unsuitable for Ms B and Mr Js needs and that the 2016 statement hed seen from 
Charwin made it clear they had to cancel their existing policy once the replacement cover 
was in place.  Our investigator noted the copy of this document provided by Ms B and Mr J 
had the pages about replacement covering missing, but he thought it more likely than not the 
full document had been provided to the couple at the time it was signed, and that pages had 
become lost over time.
Ms B and Mr J disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. 
They said the 2016 statement they signed didnt include the pages about replacing and 
cancelling the existing cover. Ms B and Mr J suggested Charwin couldve inserted the 
missing pages later. But that we werent considering that as a possibility, instead we were 
questioning their honesty and integrity. The couple also provided a copy of the statement of 
demands and needs letter they signed in relation to the 2013 policy (the 2013 statement), 
which they said does include information about cancelling existing policies when a 
replacement policy is put in place.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Ms B and Mr J, 
but I want to assure them Ive carefully considered all the arguments theyve made in 
support of their complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file.  But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Did Charwin make Ms B and Mr J aware of the need to cancel their existing policy?
I dont dispute the 2016 statement Ms B and Mr J provided to us has two pages missing. 
And one of those pages includes information about the replacement cover. The section 
reads:
You are replacing your existing policies  I have explained and you have confirmed 
that your existing cover should not be cancelled (if applicable), until the new cover is 
in place.
Whilst it doesnt categorically say the responsibility to cancel the existing policy lies with the 
customer, I believe its clear the new policy is a replacement. So, the onus would be on the 
customer to ensure any existing policy is cancelled accordingly.
But I must consider whether Ms B and Mr J were provided with this full document, including 
the wording above, when they signed it back in 2016. Charwin say the full document was 
provided and have sent us a copy. Its also said that the wording was contained in the 2013 
statement signed by the couple, at which time they were again replacing an existing policy, 
and so wouldve been aware of the process. 
Ms B and Mr J maintain the 2016 statement they signed didnt include the wording above. 
And they think it possible the missing pages were inserted by Charwin at a later date. 
Ive thought very carefully about what both parties have said and have looked at the copies 
of the 2016 statement provided by each of them. Firstly, both copies are dated 26 October 
2016, signed by Ms B and Mr J on 4 November 2016, and date stamped as received by 
Charwin on 7 November 2016. So, Im satisfied the documents are intended to be identical. 
But whilst the copy provided by Charwin has the section about replacement cover, Ms B and 
Mr Js copy has that section missing. 
I accept this couldve happened when the 2016 statement was first sent to the couple on 
26 October 2016 for them to approve and sign. But I consider it just as likely that the pages 
were omitted when Charwin sent a signed copy of the 2016 statement to Ms B and Mr J for 
their records having received it back from the couple on 7 November 2016. Or that Ms B and 
Mr J have simply mislaid the pages over time. In order to reach my decision here Ive looked at all the available evidence and at the wider 
surrounding circumstances. In particular, Ive considered that the 2013 statement did include 
the section on replacement cover, and that there were a couple of opportunities after the 
2016 statement was signed by Ms B and Mr J for the replacement cover sections to have 
been accidently omitted by either party. So, on balance, I think it more likely than not that the 
2016 statement sent to Ms B and Mr J on 26 October 2016 did contain wording about the 
replacement cover. And so, they were alerted to the fact their existing policy needed to be 
cancelled.    
Suitability of the 2016 policy
Ms B and Mr J havent said they disagree with our investigators view that the 2016 policy 
wasnt unsuitable. But Ive carefully considered what theyve said, and I havent seen any 
evidence the 2016 policy was unsuitable or sold to them purely to generate commission. And 
so, I cant say the policy was mis-sold to them. 
I do fully understand how frustrating this has all been for Ms B and Mr J. And its not 
disputed they were paying for a policy that shouldve been cancelled. But whilst this is 
extremely unfortunate, taking everything into account, I dont think Charwin has done 
anything wrong. And so, I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman