DRN-3068191
The complaint
Mr G complains that a loan he had from Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) was 
unaffordable and irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr G made an online application for a £20,000 personal loan in August 2019. The loan was 
approved by Sainsburys with Mr G expected to make monthly repayments of just over £440 
a month across five years.
He maintained his repayments up until January 2020. But no further payments were made 
after this. Mr G contacted Sainsburys in February 2020 to explain he was facing difficulties 
with the repayments. At the same time, he raised a complaint with Sainsburys about the 
loan as he didnt think it carried out enough checks to make sure it was affordable.
Sainsburys didnt agree the loan had been irresponsibly lent. It referred to the information 
hed provided during the application process which indicated the monthly repayments would 
be affordable. But, it did offer Mr G a payment of £50 to acknowledge the length of time 
taken to respond to the complaint.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed the complaint and was 
persuaded Sainsburys didnt carry out proportionate checks on this occasion. He was also 
persuaded that if proportionate checks had been carried out, they wouldve shown the loan 
was unaffordable. 
He recommended Sainsburys should refund any interest and charges paid so far on the 
loan, as well as ensuring Mr G should only repay any remaining capital balance going 
forward. He also said Sainsburys should remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan.
Mr G agreed with our investigators view  but Sainsburys didnt. It said the information 
provided by Mr G on the application seemed reasonable and didnt raise any concerns. So, it 
didnt feel challenging this further would have been proportionate. It was also concerned with 
some of the examples of expenditure our investigator referred to when saying the 
repayments wouldve been unaffordable. For example, the amount Mr G was spending on 
food each month was extremely high and wasnt a reasonable expense. It also said that any 
adverse information shouldnt be removed either due to the fact Mr G provided inaccurate 
information on the application. 
As Sainsburys disagreed, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), explains that 
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not Mr 
G could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. It also includes examples of factors that need to be considered when deciding 
on the proportionate checks to take. 
So Ive considered whether Sainsburys carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. I can see 
Sainsburys took details of Mr Gs unverified income as well his monthly expenditure  but 
only in relation to his rent or mortgage commitments. A credit check was also carried out to 
identify any other borrowing Mr G mayve had at the time. Additional expenditure was 
estimated based on a statistical model which considered further information Mr G provided 
about his personal circumstances. 
Given these checks and calculations, Sainsburys believed it was safe to lend to Mr G and 
that he had enough disposable income to afford the monthly repayments. On face value, I 
agree it wouldve looked like the loan was affordable. But Sainsburys responsibility was to 
ensure that the loan repayments would not only be affordable at present, but also going 
forward in a sustainable manner  especially given the length of time Mr G was being 
expected to maintain these repayments as well. 
Here though, Im not persuaded the level of checks Sainsburys carried out were 
proportionate. I appreciate Sainsburys asked Mr G to confirm certain information and I also 
acknowledge it being entitled to accept that information as it was provided. But Ive thought 
about the overall circumstances in which the application was made. As demonstrated by the 
information set out on his credit file (which wouldve been seen by Sainsburys at the time), 
this was an application by someone who would have looked to have few if any prior credit 
commitments.  
Mr G was also being expected to maintain monthly payments over a five-year period. This is 
a substantial period for someone to have to maintain such a relatively significant financial 
commitment. Thats especially where Sainsburys wouldve already known that the 
repayments would roughly equate to a third of the monthly income Mr G had stated on the 
application. Proportionately  thats a high amount for a customer to have to repay each 
month.
So when considering the information Mr G provided, alongside what else Sainsburys knew 
about his situation - I think it shouldve exercised caution here and asked more questions 
about the information Mr G had provided. It could have, for example, verified his answers to 
make sure he was able to maintain his repayments for the full five-year period and taken a 
more in-depth look at Mr Gs expenditure  asking for further information about his stated 
income.
Mr G has provided further information to our service which addresses these questions. 
Having reviewed this, I think it demonstrates that had Sainsburys done the same, it wouldve 
shown Mr G wouldve most likely struggled to repay the loan sustainably.
He was consistently paying close to £700 a month with regards to his rent - which was 
double what was stated on the application. And in the months leading up to the loan, his 
bank account was consistently overdrawn and on the cusp of exceeding the agreed £2,000 
overdraft limit. This also didnt seem to be a temporary measure either as the account history 
showed with each passing month that the overdrawn balance was increasing  which Im 
persuaded wouldve been an indicator of Mr Gs financial circumstances at the time of the 
application.Im satisfied that this wouldve meant Mr Gs actual disposable income was significantly less 
that what Sainsburys calculations thought it would be  to the point where the monthly 
repayments of just over £440 wouldnt have looked affordable and sustainable. I appreciate 
Sainsburys has questioned the level of spending Mr G on things such as food. But, I think 
its fair to say that that how Mr G was managing his finances in the months before he took 
out the loan shouldve raised concerns with a reasonable lender. 
In any event, Ive also considered that based on its statistical calculations here - if 
Sainsburys looked at Mr Gs finances in more detail, the loan would have likely looked 
potentially unaffordable if his correct income and rent expenses were established. 
Sainsburys says that it was Mr Gs choice to list his income and rent expenditure in the way 
that he did  so it was reasonable for them to rely on this. 
It would seem Mr G didnt give Sainsburys a full and accurate picture of his circumstances 
at the time of the application. However, this doesnt take away from the fact that Sainsburys 
was still required to carry out proportionate checks based on the individual circumstances of 
each application. And as Ive already explained, I dont think it did enough in this specific 
case. 
Sainsburys also thinks that all information recorded so far on Mr Gs credit file should also 
remain. But, Im persuaded Sainsburys shouldnt have given Mr G this loan for the reasons 
set out previously. If it hadnt, he wouldnt have been liable to pay the interest or charges 
which have contributed to his inability to make his repayments. So I think its fair that Mr G 
isnt disadvantaged by this loan beyond having to repay the amount he borrowed. This 
includes the impact of the loan on his credit file, so Sainsburys should remove any adverse 
information its recorded in relation to this.
Finally, Ive thought about the £50 Sainsburys has previously offered to Mr G for how long it 
took to handle his complaint. I believe this offer is reasonable and so I wont be asking 
Sainsburys to increase this.
Putting things right
As Mr G has had benefit of the capital he borrowed, I think its fair and reasonable he should 
still have to repay any outstanding capital balance. But Sainsburys should:
Remove all interest and charges applied to the loan so that only any outstanding 
capital balance remains.
Ensure any payments made so far by Mr G are deducted from the outstanding capital 
balance. If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mr G, and add 
8% simple interest per year from the date the loan wouldve first gone into a credit 
balance to the date of settlement.
If any outstanding capital balance remains, then Sainsburys should work to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to this loan
Pay Mr G the £50 outlined in its final response letter of April 2020 (if it hasnt done so 
already)My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Sainsburys 
Bank Plc should now take the steps Ive outlined in this decision to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman