DRN-3737329
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
bike. 
What happened
Mr B made a payment of £3,241.55 from his Barclays bank account to an overseas 
merchant for a bike in October 2021. He contacted Barclays in March 2022 for assistance 
with a claim against the merchant. Barclays credited the payment to his account and made a 
chargeback claim to the merchant. The merchant provided a detailed response and 
defended the chargeback. Barclays wrote to Mr B in May 2022 and said that it had been 
unable to recover the disputed funds so it was unable to refund his account.
Mr B complained to Barclays but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that 
the chargeback was successfully defended by the merchant and the defence was strong 
enough that Barclays reasonably didnt look to go to arbitration. He said that Barclays 
temporarily credited the account with the transaction and then re-debited the same amount 
when the chargeback was unsuccessful. 
Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary 
and amongst other things, that Barclays shouldnt have credited the payment to his account 
in March 2022 and that his account became overdrawn when the payment was re-debited 
which has caused him issues with accessing his disability benefits. He also says that the 
chargeback was a loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Barclays made a chargeback claim to the merchant in March 2022 after it was 
contacted by Mr B about the payment  it wrote to Mr B and said: You recently 
disputed a transaction with us  weve looked into it and contacted the retailer for 
you. We dont want you to be out of pocket so weve temporarily refunded you with 
£3,241.55 while the investigation is finished - this usually takes up to eight weeks, but 
can take longer;
I consider that Barclays acted correctly when it credited the £3,241.55 to Mr Bs 
account while it investigated the dispute and I dont consider that it was making a 
loan to him;
the merchant defended the chargeback claim and provided evidence to show that the 
bike had been shipped and had arrived in the UK but that there was a delay in it 
clearing customs  Mr B had requested a substantial refund of the payment that hed 
made for the bike because of the delay and the merchant had offered him some 
compensation  the bike cleared customs in March 2022 and an attempt was made 
to deliver the bike to Mr B but he contacted Barclays about the chargeback;
I consider that Barclays acted correctly by making a chargeback claim but it was 
defended by the merchant and I consider that it was reasonable for it to conclude that 
there was then no reasonable prospect of the claim being successful so it didnt 
proceed with the chargeback any further;
I also consider that it acted fairly and in accordance with the applicable scheme rules 
in the way that it dealt with Mr B and the chargeback;
Barclays wrote to Mr B in May 2022 and said: We have been unable to recover the 
disputed funds, unfortunately this means that we are unable to refund your account 
and it re-debited the £3,241.55;
I consider that Barclays could have provided a clearer explanation that it was re-
debiting the £3,241.55 from Mr Bs account but I consider that it acted correctly when 
it re-debited that amount from his account;
due to other payments that Mr B had made from his account, the re-debit made his 
account overdrawn but I dont consider that Barclays acted incorrectly by doing that;
Mr B says that his account being overdrawn has caused him issues with accessing 
his disability benefits and I can understand the distress and inconvenience that that 
has caused him  but Barclays has allowed him to withdraw his disability benefits 
even though his account is overdrawn and Im not persuaded that its acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in these circumstances; and
I sympathise with Mr B for the issues that hes experienced and the difficulties that 
hes described, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Barclays to refund to Mr B the payment that he made for the bike, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman