DRN-4224569
The complaint
Miss S complains that West Bay Insurance Plc havent given her a fair settlement valuation 
for her car after it was deemed a total loss.   
What happened
In January 2023 Miss S made a claim on her car insurance policy following an accident. 
West Bay collected the car and inspected it and deemed it to be a total loss.  As a result, 
West Bay offered a settlement of £12400 
Miss S wasnt happy with this as she says it will cost her at least £15000 to replace her car 
as it is a high spec model, and so she complained.
West Bay didnt uphold her complaint, and Miss S remained unhappy that West Bay rely on 
CAP and Glasses guides when they are valuing cars, which she says resulted in her being 
underpaid for her car. So she brought her complaint to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ss complaint. Initially he thought the valuation 
was fair, but after getting further information and valuations based on the optional extras on 
the car, he thought a valuation of £13332.67 would be a fairer figure. Miss S didnt agree and 
so the case has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Ss complaint and I will explain why. 
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and taken reasonable steps
to ensure a fair valuation was reached. 
The terms of Miss Ss policy, outline how a valuation settlement will be calculated when 
there is a loss. West Bay can either repair the car, or 
Pay an amount of cash equivalent to the loss or damage. 
The most we will pay will be either:
The market value of the insured vehicle immediately before the loss; or
The cost of repairing the insured vehicle, whichever is the lower 
The policy then defines market value as:
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of the loss or damage compared with 
one of the same make, model, specification and condition
And:
The market value will be assessed by an automotive engineer in conjunction with the 
published trade guides at the time of loss. 
West Bay obtained the standard retail valuations for the model of car which were Glasss  
£12340, CAP   £12127, and Cazana  £12388. The average of these was £12285, and 
West Bay offered £12400 to Miss S which was at the top end of this. 
 
Miss S says she couldnt replace her car with a like for like one for the amount West Bay 
paid her and has sent in adverts for similar cars. The valuation of a used car isnt an exact 
science, and its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the 
estimated market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations 
the guides give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with 
similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We usually find the valuation guides 
more reliable than individual adverts which can vary vastly in price, and often advertised 
prices allow room for negotiations. 
However, on reviewing the valuations provided by West Bay, I noted that they didnt take into 
account the optional extras on Miss Ss car, which included a panoramic sunroof, cruise 
control and heated seats. Im satisfied that these would be quite desirable extras even on a 
seven year old car, and so I asked the investigator to obtain bespoke valuations to include 
these extras. 
Updated valuations were provided by CAP and Autotrader on the basis of a car with these 
extras, which were £13250 and £13675 respectively. We also obtained a Cazoo valuation of 
£13073. The average of these valuations is £13332.67, which seems fairer, and more in line 
with current advertised values on Autotrader  and so Im satisfied that this is a fair valuation 
and Miss S should be able to replace her car with a similar one for the above figure. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think that West Bay should:
Pay Miss S an additional £932.67 to bring the settlement paid up to £13332.67
Pay Miss S 8% statutory interest on the £932.67 they have underpaid from the date 
that settlement was issued, until the date this balance is paid. 
*If West Bay Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Miss S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ss complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc and directing them to put 
things right as above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 Joanne Ward
Ombudsman