DRN-2642631
The complaint
Mrs M renewed her motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited in 
November 2019. She says its poor service caused her to cancel the policy.
What happened
Admiral told Mrs M in September 2020 that the premium on her policy was going to rise as a 
result of her husband having had an accident in another car in 2019. Mrs M thought Admiral 
should have told her about this prior to the November 2019 renewal - or when she changed 
her car in August 2020.  
After speaking to an advisor, Mrs M says she felt she had no choice but to cancel the policy 
mid-term, to avoid paying the higher premium. But she was then overcharged for the cover 
shed had. Admiral had said if she cancelled, shed only be charged for time on cover at the 
original price. Mrs M also paid more than expected for a replacement policy with Admiral. 
Mrs M said she wasnt informed of several changes to her policy, including the removal of 
cover for driving other cars (DOC) and an increase in her policy excess. She later tried to 
check the documents that had been sent to her by Admiral in its online portal. Mrs M found 
that they were in disarray and that some of the details given in them were wrong. Mrs M said 
the requests she made to Admiral for her complaint to be dealt with by a senior advisor were 
ignored. And she didnt get a reply to a request for clarification that she sent to Admiral by 
email on 23 October 2020.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. He thought it was fair for Admiral to 
increase Mrs Ms premium once it found that her husband (a named driver on Mrs Ms 
policy) had been involved in an accident, in line with the policys terms and conditions. He 
said Mrs M was advised in advance of the increased premium, and that the decision to 
cancel the policy instead (and to buy another one with Admiral) was hers. He said we cant 
tell an insurer how to store information on its portal. He also said it was for a consumer to 
check their policy details as appropriate and to query any discrepancies with the insurer. 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings. She pointed out specific examples of 
discrepancies between documents stored in the portal that shed brought to Admirals 
attention that still hadnt been clarified by it. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Increased premium
Its standard industry practice for insurers to require policy holders to tell them if a driver 
named on a policy is involved in any accident, as that may change the overall risk the insurer 
is covering. Mrs M says she wasnt aware of this policy term, although Admiral had set it out 
in the policy documents. But in any event, as Mrs M says shed forgotten her husband was 
on her policy, she wouldnt have reported the accident to Admiral anyway. 
Whether an accident is reported to it or not, if an insurer finds out about it, I think its fair for it 
to re-rate the policy based on the new risk level. Mrs M says Admiral should have told her as 
soon as it discovered the accident - which she suspects was before her renewal in 2019 or 
before she changed her car in August 2020. But theres no evidence that Admiral knew 
about it until September 2020, when it carried out a random check  something all insurers 
do. I dont think Mrs M was penalised for not advising Admiral about the accident, as shes 
suggested. The new premium reflected the increased risk Admiral thought it faced. 
Mrs M says Admiral increased the premium without her permission. But it has shown that it 
emailed Mrs M on 7 September 2020 to tell her that it intended to increase the premium due 
to the accident. It gave her the option to cancel the policy at the original premium. Mrs M 
says Admiral didnt ask whether she could afford the new premium - but insurers dont 
normally ask consumers about their finances in this situation. I think Admiral was required to 
set out its proposed extra charge and it was then for Mrs M to decide whether to pay it. 
 
Mrs M thinks that as liability for the accident was disputed the premium shouldnt have risen. 
But its standard industry practice, until liability has been settled, to consider any open claim 
as a fault claim. If a consumer choses to retain their policy and pay the extra premium, the 
insurer will provide a refund should the claim later be settled as non-fault. I dont think 
Admiral did anything wrong in acting as it did on this issue.
Cancellation   
In my opinion, its not correct for Mrs M to say she had to cancel the policy. She could have 
allowed it to run until it lapsed. Admiral said if Mrs M decided to cancel the policy mid-term, it 
would charge only for time on cover, at the policys original premium  and that it would 
waive the cancellation charge. But the advisor said if the claim was later settled with Mrs Ms 
husband held at fault, a further charge would be made. I think that was reasonable.
Admiral offered Mrs M the option of cancellation in an attempt to assist her. She could still 
have chosen to pay the increased premium and wait for a refund if her husband was found 
not to be at fault for the accident. But Mrs M chose to cancel the policy and buy another one. 
I dont think it was Admirals fault that the cost of her new insurance was higher on the date 
she bought it than it may have been on other dates. Quotations change daily for policies 
right across the industry - and Mrs M didnt have to buy her new cover from Admiral.  
Theres no doubt that Admiral made an error in the charge it made when the policy was 
cancelled, but after Mrs M pointed it out, it dealt with the matter by issuing a refund. So it put 
the error right - although its fair to say that Mrs M was inconvenienced at the time. 
Changes to the policy / discrepancies in the portal
We asked Admiral to clarify how the fact that DOC wasnt on Mrs Ms new policy was 
communicated to her. It confirmed that the issue was set out in the new policy documents  
as was the increase in the policy excess due to Mrs Ms mid-term change of car. 
DOC isnt standard on motor insurance policies  so I dont think its right to say that Admiral 
removed the cover  it just wasnt included on Mrs Ms new policy. And the increase in the 
policy excess was generated automatically, due to the change of car. It was shown on the 
policy documents, which Mrs M was advised to check. Its standard industry practice to ask 
consumers to review their documents at inception, at renewal or after any mid-term changes. Thats so they can check all is in order, query discrepancies with the insurer at the time and 
be sure that they still want the policy. 
In this case, Mrs M says she checked her documents  with some difficulty. She told Admiral 
by email on 23 October 2020 about discrepancies on the portal. For example, she said shed 
received three policy schedules in August 2020, one of which said she had DOC cover and 
two that said she didnt. She also queried Admirals records about the length of time each 
driver on the policy had held a licence. She gave examples of documents with conflicting 
dates contained within the portal that she said made it hard to follow what was going on. 
Admiral didnt respond to Mrs Ms email, so we asked it about that omission. Admiral said it 
thought it had answered the queries shed raised already. I dont think thats accurate. And in 
any event, I think Admiral should at least have told Mrs M that it thought it had dealt with her 
concerns. She could then have explained which ones she thought were outstanding. 
I can see why Mrs M thought from the various documents she saw that Admiral hadnt 
recorded the right number of driver years  and assumed that it must have worked to her 
disadvantage. But in response to queries from us and from Mrs M, Admiral said it had rated 
all her policies from 2017 onwards using the maximum number of driver years that its 
underwriting criteria allows. It provided extracts of rating tables to us as evidence of that. So 
I think Admiral has shown that Mrs M didnt lose out, even if the number of driver years 
shown on the documents was wrong.  
In my opinion, much of the frustration expressed by Mrs M was based around her finding it 
hard to navigate around the portal. That seems to have been based on the volume of 
documents contained in it, plus the fact that some were undated, seemed to be duplicates or 
conflicted with each other. We cant require Admiral to organise the portal in any particular 
way, although I think if sufficient queries about it arise from consumers, its likely to review 
that issue anyway. 
 
Mrs M first raised specific queries about the portal on 16 October 2020. An advisor tried to 
clarify the documents a few days later. I think she made a fair attempt to do so, but I dont 
think her explanation was sufficient, especially in relation to the various policy schedules 
giving various dates for DOC cover. Mrs M could have asked Admiral to send her copies of 
the relevant documents by post at any time, rather than struggle with them online. But I also 
think Admiral could have done more to clarify her specific queries regardless.
Other issues
Mrs M says that when she called Admiral on 14 September 2020 to say she wouldnt be 
renewing the policy, her call wasnt treated as a complaint. Ive listened to the call, and I 
dont think it was clear that she wanted to make a formal complaint at that point. Admiral 
raised a formal complaint when it realised thats what Mrs M wanted, and it issued a final 
response letter promptly on 5 October 2020, giving referral rights to this service. 
Despite that, Mrs M asked twice in October 2020 for the issues shed raised to be reviewed 
by one of Admirals senior advisors. When we queried why that didnt happen, Admiral said it 
thought Mrs Ms complaint was about its decision rather than its complaints handling, which 
is why it provided referral rights to us, rather than escalate the complaint internally. I think its 
unfortunate that Admiral didnt explain its reasoning to Mrs M when she queried why the 
complaint wasnt dealt with in line with its complaints process. Although I dont think Mrs M 
lost out by not having her complaint seen by a senior advisor (as it was referred to us for 
review) I think Admiral should have explained the situation to her. 
In summaryIn my opinion, there was some poor service on Admirals part, especially in omitting to 
provide an explanation for the specific queries Mrs M raised about the portal. But I dont 
think she has shown that it made errors in relation to the increased premium or the 
cancellation  except for the sum it overcharged, which it put right. Admiral waived its 
standard cancellation charge, when it didnt have to do that  and I dont think it was at fault 
for Mrs M paying more than she expected for her new policy with it. 
I think the issues referred to above are the major ones in this case, although I know Mrs M 
thinks every issue shes mentioned is equally important, so Ive considered all of them.  
I dont think Mrs M has shown that she faced a financial detriment as a result of the 
confusion over the number of driver years recorded by Admiral  or that it was wrong for its 
system to increase the policy excess for her new car. Mrs M didnt have to retain the policy. 
Shes said that her new policy schedule shows she doesnt have DOC cover, but recently, 
Admiral confirmed to Mrs M that (as the cars registered keeper) she can have DOC cover 
for a small charge should she require it.  
Mrs M faced much confusion about the content of the portal, which took time on her part to 
deal with and caused her inconvenience. I think the level of inconvenience could have been 
reduced had Mrs M asked for documents to be provided by post. And although Mrs M was 
naturally concerned by the discrepancies she identified on the portal, I dont think shes 
shown that any of them caused her a financial detriment.  
Taking everything into account, although in my opinion, Admiral could have provided better 
service in some respects, I dont think its shortcomings were such that it  would be fair and 
reasonable to require it to refund and / or reduce the premiums Mrs M has paid, as shes 
suggested. As I dont think Admiral did anything substantially wrong, I dont think it would be 
appropriate to require it to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience either.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman