DRN-3139365
The complaint
Mr Z is complaining about the set up and operation of his trading account by eToro (UK) Ltd.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr Z was a Chinese student living in the UK. He saw some adverts for 
trading online with eToro and decided to open an account. Over a period of four months, 
Mr Z completed numerous trades in a variety of products including securities, oil, bitcoin, and 
contracts for differences (CFDs).
After a few months, eToro limited Mr Zs account  theyd been asking him for additional 
information about his income and assets and he hadnt replied. 
By the time the account was limited, Mr Z had lost around £25,000. He complained to eToro, 
saying he shouldnt have been allowed to open the account. eToros response was that 
theyd done nothing wrong  so Mr Z brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things and didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. He said he thought eToro had 
complied with the relevant regulations in their handling of Mr Zs account.
Mr Z remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of Mr Zs submissions and comments and focussed on the key points in 
my decision. In summary, Mr Zs complaint points are:
as a Chinese national, he shouldnt have been allowed to open an account;
he had no experience of this kind of trading and the risks werent explained properly 
to him. In addition, the materials explaining the risks werent available in his first 
language; 
eToro didnt check his statements about his income and assets  therefore not acting 
in his best interests;
he was encouraged to take risks by account managers who held themselves out as 
professionals; and
he was allowed to open a professional client account, enabling him to trade at 
leverage of 100. 
Ive considered each of these points in turn and explained my thoughts below.
Chinese nationality
Mr Z says eToro dont operate in China. And thats consistent with the statement on their 
website: we can no longer offer the eToro investment platform to new users in the following 
countriesChina 
However, theres no mention of nationality or citizenship in this statement and Ive found no 
evidence to suggest that Mr Zs Chinese nationality and citizenship should have prevented 
eToro from allowing him to open an account. 
Instead, eToro said they accept clients from around the world depending on where they are 
domiciled, in line with guidance from the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group. In this 
case, they said, Mr Z was domiciled in the UK so there were no limitations on him having an 
account. Ive seen evidence eToro checked Mr Zs address  and that the internet protocol 
(IP) address he was using was based in the UK. 
Mr Zs argued that eToro were aware that he was a student and only temporarily resident in 
the UK. He said they would have known that his permanent residence was in China. Ive 
looked at the information Mr Z completed when applying for the account and I disagree  
although it shows Mr Zs citizenship and place of birth as China, the address given is in the 
UK and theres no indication that his UK address was temporary. 
Whilst it may have become apparent during later conversations between Mr Z and his 
account managers that he intended to return to China in the future, I cant say that this 
should have led to an immediate closure of Mr Zs account  eToros terms of business allow 
them to provide services to anyone resident in the UK  which Mr Z was.  
Previous experience and explanation of risks
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) 
chapter 10 provides guidance on what firms need to do in terms of assessing the 
appropriateness of an account for a client. COBS 10.2.1 says a firm must ask the client to 
provide information about his knowledge and experience in the investment field, and must 
then determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks involved in relation to the product demanded.
COBS 10.2.2 sets out the nature of the information a firm must ask for, and COBS 10.2.4 
says a firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by a client. 
Ive looked at the appropriateness assessment that Mr Z completed online and Im satisfied it 
meets the requirements of COBS 10.2.1  10.2.4. Its clear from this assessment that Mr Z 
had no trading experience and limited financial knowledge. But that doesnt necessarily 
mean that eToro shouldnt have opened an account for him  COBS 10.3.1 says a firm must 
warn a client if they think a product or service isnt appropriate for the client. COBS 10.3.3 
then says that if a client has been given a warning but wants to proceed, the firm can then 
decide whether to go ahead.
eToro have provided a screenshot of the warning that would have been shown to Mr Z. This 
says: You should understand that eToro products are complex derivative products and can 
carry a high degree of risk to your capital and may not be appropriate for you, based on your 
knowledge and experience as indicated by you. The warning then went on to encourage 
Mr Z to read eToros educational tools and general risk disclosure and required him to open 
the links before proceeding with opening the account. Mr Z confirmed that hed read both 
documents.
Mr Z has said its clear he didnt read the documents because the electronic signatures are 
less than a minute apart. And hes complained that the documents werent available in Chinese. But its clear from Mr Zs correspondence that his English is good enough to have 
understood the warning. And eToro was entitled to rely on Mr Zs confirmation that hed read 
the documents  I cant say theyve acted unfairly in accepting his confirmation and opening 
the account. 
Should eToro have checked Mr Zs statements about his income and assets?
As Ive outlined above, eToro were entitled under COBS 10.2.4 to rely on the information 
provided by Mr Z. Mr Zs said this means they werent acting in his best interests but I 
disagree  it was his responsibility to provide accurate information. 
After Mr Z had been trading for a few months, eToro did seek to check Mr Zs statements 
about his income and assets  because his trading patterns were inconsistent with the 
statements hed made. Mr Z didnt reply to any of eToros three requests for further 
information about this  so eToro limited his account. Im satisfied that when eToro had 
reason to question Mr Zs statements they did so  and took appropriate steps to limit his 
losses when they didnt receive the explanations and evidence they asked for. So I cant say 
eToro acted unfairly in this respect.
Encouragement to take risks by account managers
Mr Z says he was encouraged to take more risks by an account manager he trusted  he 
says the account manager advised a shorting strategy based on his expectation of the 
markets at the time and that he followed the advice because the account manager had told 
him of his professional qualifications.
Ive listened to the call Mr Z referenced and I dont agree that the account manager was 
advising Mr Z to take risks. Instead, he was answering Mr Zs questions and engaging in a 
discussion about possible market movements. The account manager explained that shorting 
was one way to take advantage of market dips but also suggested other options. 
eToro is an execution-only platform, so the business isnt required to provide suitable advice 
to its clients. I know Mr Z says he trusted the account manager as he had professional 
qualifications, but from everything Ive heard, Im satisfied eToro havent tried to advise Mr Z.
Professional elective status
Mr Z says he was granted professional elective status in June 2020 and asked the account 
manager to remove this status a few days later after suffering heavy losses on a 
100-leverage trade. 
eToros records suggest that although Mr Z applied for professional elective status, it was 
never granted. Mr Z sent a screenshot which he says shows the 100-leverage trade but 
eToro say the screenshot was taken from a demo account rather than a real account. 
Further, theres no evidence in Mr Zs trading history, supplied by eToro, of any trades 
having been executed at a leverage higher than 30.
Im persuaded that Mr Z didnt place any trades at leverage greater than 30, and that he 
wasnt awarded professional elective status.Conclusion
In summary, Im not persuaded eToro have treated Mr Z unfairly or unreasonably. They 
followed the guidance set out in COBS when opening his account, and treated him as a 
resident of the UK  which he was at the time. Ive found no evidence that the account 
managers encouraged him to take risks, or that he was granted professional elective status. 
So Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint about eToro (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman