The complaint
Mr T says Novaloans Ltd, trading as Cash4unow (Cash4unow), irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr T says the lending was unaffordable for him.      
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Cash4unow provided to Mr T between May 
2018 and April 2019. Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
repayment
1 26/05/2018 15/11/2018 6 £350.00 £108.62
2 15/11/2018 28/03/2019 6 £600.00 £199.30
3 29/03/2019 15/04/2019 4 £400.00 £152.55
4 16/04/2019 Outstanding 6 £800.00 £264.64
The second of our adjudicators who considered the complaint didnt think loans two to four 
should have been given as Cash4unows own credit checks showed Mr Ts financial 
circumstances had significantly deteriorated between loans one and two being agreed.
Cash4unow asked for the complaint to passed to an ombudsman so it is now with me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1738936the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr T didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. Because 
of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making 
a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship Mr T had 
with Cash4unow. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other 
loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Cash4unow has told us of its checks it carried out before it agreed to any of the loans given 
to Mr T. These included a creditworthiness assessment, credit file checks, other credit 
commitment checks, indebtedness, insolvency, county court judgments and an affordability 
assessment. It has given us snap-shot copies of the results of those checks. 
The checks for before loan two was agreed show a fairly large increase in the amount by 
which Mr T was in debt over the previous six months  an increase of around £5,000 to 
£8,290. It also showed that Mr T now had accounts in default as well as having three other active short-term loan accounts. Mr T had taken six short-term loans in the previous three 
months and a total of 15 in the last six months after loan one was taken. 
If Cash4unow had taken notice of the information that it had gathered prior to agreeing loan 
two, I think it most likely it would have realised that Mr T was having significant problems 
managing his money. And the rate at which he was taking short-term loans would suggest 
the repayments for loans two, and the subsequent loans, was likely to be unsustainable. 
So, like the second adjudicator, I dont think lending should have been agreed from loan two 
onwards. Im upholding the complaint about loans two to four and Cash4unow should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Cash4unow needs to do 
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ts loan four has been transferred to a third party 
Cash4unow should buy the loan back if it can. If Cash4unow cant buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr T having made overpayments then Cash4unow should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Cash4unow should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr T. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Cash4unow should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to loans two to 
four.                                                                                                                                  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. Cash4unow 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr T still has an outstanding balance due, then Cash4unow should 
try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr T in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Cash4unow of its obligation to treat Mr T fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. Novaloans Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman