DRN-1774349
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Coverwise Ltd mis-sold him a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y had previously taken out annual multi-trip travel insurance policies online and by phone 
through Coverwise. In 2020, his policy couldnt automatically be renewed due to a change in 
the policy insurers medical screening questions, so Mr Y got in touch with Coverwise to 
renew his policy.
During the call, Mr Y learned that his policy didnt cover missed flight connections. If he 
wanted to be covered for this situation, he needed to add travel disruption cover to his policy 
and pay an additional premium. 
Mr Y was unhappy that his policy didnt cover missed connections and he complained. He 
said hed been told at the 2019 renewal that the policy did cover this situation. Coverwise 
said it no longer had a copy of the call from the 2019 renewal, so it couldnt listen to whatd 
been said. It accepted there mightve been a misunderstanding. But it said the policy 
documents itd sent Mr Y clearly stated that connecting flights werent covered. And in any 
event, it didnt think Mr Y had lost out financially as a result of connecting flights not being 
covered. Mr Y remained unhappy with Coverwises decision and asked us to look into his 
complaint. He felt he should get a refund of premiums or compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that Mr Y 
mightve wrongly been told that connecting flights were covered. But as he hadnt made a 
claim during the life of the policy, he hadnt lost out. And he felt if Mr Y had been aware that 
connecting flights werent covered, he wouldve paid the additional premium for travel 
disruption cover. So he didnt think Mr Y was worse-off as a result of anything Coverwise 
had done.
Mr Y disagreed. He felt hed been lied to. He didnt think it was relevant whether hed made a 
financial loss as he hadnt got the policy he wanted. He said he probably wouldve paid extra 
for travel disruption cover if hed known about it. He was concerned that Coverwise might be 
selling the wrong cover to others.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Coverwise has done anything wrong that it needs to put right. 
Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, when Coverwise sold Mr Y the policy, it needed to give him 
enough clear information about it so that he could decide if it was right for him. Its 
unfortunate that Coverwise no longer has a copy of the renewal call so that I could hear what 
was discussed. Its possible Mr Y was wrongly told that connecting flights were included in 
the type of policy he had.
But in making my decision, I have to decide what I think Mr Y would most likely have done 
had he been given the right information and whether hes lost out as a result. In this case, Mr 
Ys told us that if hed known connecting flights could be covered for an additional premium, 
hed have paid for the cover. This means hed have paid more than he actually did for the 
policy. So he isnt financially worse off because of any potential information failings during 
the call.
And happily, Mr Y didnt need to make a claim for missed connections during the life of his 
policy. So he hasnt lost out as a result of anything he mayve been told. Mr Y had the benefit 
of the annual policy he did take out though, which covered him for any trips he took during 
that year. This means I dont think I could reasonably tell Coverwise to refund him for a 
policy hes benefited from and the level of cover he paid for, even if it didnt provide all the 
cover he thought it did. 
It seems, from what Ive seen, that Coverwise provided Mr Y with the policy documents after 
the policy renewed, on the insurers behalf. The Insurance Product Information Document it 
sent out - which lists key terms and limitations on cover - clearly stated that connecting 
flights werent covered. So I think Coverwise met its responsibility to ensure Mr Y was given 
the policy documentation.
I understand Mr Y is concerned that Coverwise may be giving other customers wrong 
information. My decision is limited to whether Coverwise treated Mr Y unfairly. Were not the 
industry regulator and we dont punish or fine the businesses we cover. So Ive only looked 
at the individual circumstances of Mr Ys complaint.  
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y, I dont think Coverwise needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman