DRN-4045369
The complaint
Miss O complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declining a claim 
under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss O had a pet insurance policy with RSA covering her dog, taken out in February 2022. In 
November 2022 Miss O took her dog to a vet for a routine vaccination. During the visit the 
vet diagnosed a luxating patella1 (in both hind legs) and needed treatment. The vet 
submitted a pre-authorisation request for the treatment to RSA. A claim for the treatment 
was subsequently submitted.
RSA contacted Miss O to ask when she first noticed the issue (changes in behaviour) as the 
clinical notes for the dog included reference to Miss O mentioning the dog occasionally 
hopped on its hind legs. Miss O responded to say her dog didnt limp, but occasionally 
skipped a step when out. She said this was something the dog had always done since it was 
young and hadnt concerned her.
However, RSA said they wouldnt approve the pre-authorisation (or accept a claim) as the 
clinical notes and what Miss O had said indicated to them the dog had shown signs of 
luxating patella (the skipping) before the policy started. RSA said this indicated the do had a 
pre-existing condition prior to the policy being taken out and as such this would be excluded 
from cover under the policy.
Miss O challenged the decline of the pre-authorisation request as she sad her vet hadnt 
noted any concerns at visits before November 2022. However, RSA said the policy exclusion 
(for a pre-existing condition) meant the policy wouldnt cover claims where there were signs 
or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses which either the policyholder 
or a vet was aware of before the policy started. As Miss O had indicated she was aware of 
signs (the skipping) RSA maintained their decline of the pre-authorisation (and the claim).
Unhappy at decline of the pre-authorisation and claim, Miss O complained to RSA. But they 
didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they referred to the exclusion contained in 
the policy documents, the clinical history and the exchange with Miss O following the 
submission of the pre-authorisation request. Based on this, RSA confirmed their decision to 
decline the pre-authorisation and claim. RSA also responded to a point made by Miss O that 
shed always been insured with them. They said shed had a policy from November 2020 to 
November 2021, which hadnt been renewed. She then took out a new policy in February 
2022, meaning a new contract of insurance was in place from that date (including the policy 
terms and conditions).
1 A luxating patella is a condition where the kneecap pops out or moves out of its normal location. When this 
happens it prevents the knee from bending, which causes a limp or a skip. Depending on the severity of the 
condition, the patella may move back into place and the dog can walk normally (if the condition is mild).
Miss O then complained to this service, saying her dog didnt have a pre-existing condition 
and she wasnt aware of the luxating patella prior to the visit to the vet and the vet informing 
her the dog had the condition (nothing had previously been recorded by the vet). RSA were 
basing their decline of the pre-authorisation and claim (that there was a pre-existing 
condition) on the answer she gave about her dog occasionally skipping when it walked. Miss 
O wanted her complaint to be resolved by RSA accepting and paying her claim.
Our investigator upheld Miss Os complaint. She thought Miss O wouldnt reasonably have 
been aware of the luxating patella, given nothing to indicate its presence was recorded in the 
clinical history and the vet hadnt raised concerns on the occasions theyd seen and 
examined the dog. So, she thought Miss O wouldnt reasonably have been aware of the 
luxating patella (from the occasional skip) or something to be concerned about or for which 
she might have needed to make a future claim. She thought RSA should pay the claim in line 
with the policy limits (including any applicable excess deduction) and pay interest on the 
value of the claim from the date the claim was made to the date they paid the claim.
RSA disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they said (based on their own vets opinion) skipping wasnt a 
normal way for a dog to walk and although Miss O may not have known it would develop into 
a luxating patella, they would have been sufficiently aware of the abnormality (the skipping) 
to have mentioned it to the vet. RSA thought it was unfair for an abnormality not to be 
considered if Miss O didnt think it might lead to a claim. RSA also referred to an internet 
search on dog skipping which indicated the most common cause of skipping to be slipping 
or dislocation of the patella (luxating patella). And another internet source indicating that 
skipping was one of the signs of luxating patella. So, while Miss O didnt have clinical 
knowledge, she should have been aware of the potential condition from the dog skipping.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Miss O. 
The key issue in Miss Os complaint is whether RSA acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. RSAs view is that they correctly declined the pre-authorisation (and 
subsequent claim) on the grounds the dogs clinical history (and what Miss O had said about 
the dog skipping occasionally) indicated a pre-existing condition (luxating patella). As a pre-
existing condition, it would been excluded from cover under the policy. Miss Os view is that 
her dog didnt have a pre-existing condition and she wasnt aware of the luxating patella prior 
to the visit to the vet and the vet informing her the dog had the condition (nothing had 
previously been recorded by the vet). RSA were basing their decline on the answer she gave 
about her dog occasionally skipping when it walked.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by RSA in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the clinical history of Miss Os dog. In their final 
response, RSA refer to the wording of the exclusion in the policy: 
You accept that the policy will not insure:
Health issues, concerns, illnesses, and injuries which you or your vet were aware of 
before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions. 
They are:signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses, 
existing illnesses or injuries, 
existing physical abnormalities, 
existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health 
issues or injuries; 
illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or 
physical abnormalities. 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, the luxating patella diagnosed by the vet at the visit in November 2022. Or 
whether there were any clinical signs, symptoms or abnormalities. RSA refer to the clinical 
notes of the visit in November 2022, where it includes the statement:
O [Miss O] mentioned occasionally hops on hind legsnot sure which one.
Miss Os response when asked the question by RSA about when she first noticed the issue 
(changes in behaviour) states:
.[D] doesnt actually limp, [D] occasionally skips a step when out for an explore. 
This something that [D] has always done since being tiny so it hadnt concerned me.
[D] presented to the vets last week for routine vaccination when they discovered [Ds] 
knee problem.
Thinking about these points, its clear Miss O had observed skipping by her dog since it was 
young (and its reasonable to think this was before she took out the policy in February 2022). 
Ive also looked at the sources referred to by RSA in their response to our investigators view 
(and others publicly available) which indicate skipping is a symptom of a luxating patella. 
However, Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for Miss O to have known the 
skipping was indicative of a luxating patella. From her description (and publicly available 
information on the degrees of severity of the condition) it doesnt appear to have been 
particularly severe in terms of the (1-4) grading of the severity of the condition. Ive also 
noted reference to the skipping only being occasional and that Miss O has said the dog 
didnt limp. 
Added to the fact the condition was only diagnosed in November 2022 (and not previously) 
or mentioned on earlier vet visits, this suggests it wouldnt have been obvious to Miss O her 
dog had a luxating patella, or that there was a significant problem. And the diagnosis was 
made on a routine visit to the vet for a vaccination  not because there was a clear indication 
of a problem with the dog.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above and my 
conclusion Miss O wouldnt reasonably have been aware the dog had a luxating patella, then 
Ive concluded RSA didnt act fairly and reasonably in applying the exclusion to decline the 
pre-authorisation request and the subsequent claim.
Given this conclusion, Ive considered what RSA need to do to put things right. As I dont 
think they fairly applied the exclusion to decline the claim, they should settle the claim in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, taking account of any 
policy limits and excess deductions that may apply. In addition, they should pay interest, at a 
rate of 8% simple, on the amount settled from the date Miss O made her claim to the date 
they settle the claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint. I require 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
taking account of any policy limits and excess deductions that may apply. 
pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the amount settled from the date Miss O 
made her claim to the date they settle the claim.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited consider theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss O how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Miss O a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman