DRN-2880220
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost, which he believes was as 
the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
Around September 2019, Mr B was looking to have a summerhouse built. Hes said that he 
looked at different companies, but came across an advert on social media for a builder that 
interested him. The advert has since been removed, but Mr B has said there were pictures of 
summerhouses and Mr B told Lloyds he checked the viability of the advert, by looking at 
other social media platforms, and was able to see photos that covered several years.
Mr B contacted the builder and arranged for them to come to his house to provide a quote. 
Following the visit and having received a quote and exchanged messages with the builder, 
Mr B decided to go ahead and agreed a price of £4,000, with the work scheduled to start in 
early October. The builder asked Mr B for a deposit of £2,000, explaining this was for 
materials and that he needed the deposit, as once the materials had been ordered, hed be 
unable to return them if Mr B later decided he didnt want the work carried out. Mr B went 
ahead and, on 25 September 2019, made a payment for £2,000, via bank transfer, to the 
account details the builder provided  which was an account also held with Lloyds.
Mr B has said that the builder did not turn up to carry out the work on the date agreed. He  
exchanged further messages with him and a rescheduled start date was agreed for one 
week later. Mr B became concerned that the builder again didnt turn up to start the work the 
following week and has said that he began to make excuses for the delays.
Mr B continued to exchange messages with the builder and says that he has received 
numerous promises for the money to be returned, but he has never got it back. Mr B 
believes that there is no reason to believe the builder had any intention of returning the 
money. Mr B has said he also discovered, through social media, that there have been others 
who have paid for work to be carried out, but that hasnt been completed.
Mr B raised the matter with Lloyds in October 2019 and also instructed a solicitor, who 
contacted Lloyds on Mr Bs behalf. In summary, Mr B believed that he had been scammed 
and that he should be refunded under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
Lloyds looked into the concerns that Mr B had raised. It considered its obligations under the 
(CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory and sent its final response on 24 October 2019, not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint. It deemed the matter to be a buyer/seller dispute between Mr B 
and the builder, it said this as Mr B had still been in contact with the builder, and the builder 
had agreed to refund him. It added that as the beneficiary account was also held by it, it had 
checked but could see no funds remained.
Mr B then brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, as she considered this was a dispute 
between Mr B and the builder who he had made the payment to. In summary, she said that 
although the works may not have been carried out, she could see that the builder had 
agreed to repay Mr B, albeit these payments didnt amount to the amount agreed and have 
since stopped. She considered that it would be unusual for a scammer to continue to remain 
in contact with a victim, or offer to pay any money back.
Our investigator added that she had also considered that Lloyds had investigated the 
account to which the payment for £2000 was made, as it was also held with Lloyds. But it 
didnt find anything concerning about how the account had been operated. While she didnt 
doubt the agreement Mr B entered into with the builder hadnt gone to plan, she agreed with 
Lloyds that the case should be treated as a civil matter.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, he said he believes this is a 
scam. He said this because, others had also lost money. Mr B has said that although he did 
receive some payments back from the builder, these were small payments that were only 
made after he had reported the matter to the police  and he feels these payments, which 
stopped, were only made for the builders self-interest.  Overall, Mr B does not consider 
there is any evidence to suggest that the builder legitimately intended to carry out the work 
and maintains that he believes Lloyds should refund him under the CRM code.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Lloyds should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr B, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him. Its understandable for such a significant 
sum why Mr B feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Lloyds has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mr B made these payments.Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr B made and, in particular, whether Lloyds ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr B made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mr B strongly disagrees. He 
feels the builder has scammed him.
Its clear the agreement Mr B entered into with the builder did not go as planned and the 
work has not been carried out. And I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly about 
what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know, that the 
builder set out with an intent to defraud him.
I say this because there appears to be a number of factors, in the circumstances of this 
case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or of a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud;
- The builder was still contactable after Mr B had made the payment. This is not 
typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not are not able to be 
contacted after they have taken a victims money.
- Mr B and the builder continued to exchange messages after the payment had been 
made and an agreement was reached for the money to be repaid. I do understand 
that Mr B has not received all of his money back, and the repayments didnt continue 
 but Im not persuaded that its usual behaviour for a scammer to agree to refund 
money they have defrauded their victims of.
- Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship with their bank. The evidence Ive seen from Lloyds, regarding the 
beneficiary account, indicates that the builder had previously successfully carried out 
similar activities for other customers, without any concerns being raised. Which Im 
persuaded is supported by the evidence Mr B saw when he carried out his own 
research before engaging with the builder. Where hes said the social media 
pages/advert he saw for the builder, contained photos of work / good reviews.
- Lloyds has confirmed that the beneficiary account is a legitimate account which had 
been longstanding before the payment was made. And it had no concerns about how 
the account was being operated prior to Mr B making his payment.
- Im also mindful that the builder has given Mr B his genuine contact details (address / 
telephone number) when he provided a quote. This again is not usual behaviour for 
somebody who is setting out with an intent to defraud, more typically with scams 
such as these, the scammers provide false details, so as they cannot be traced after 
defrauding their victims. - I understand that Mr B raised the matter with Trading Standards, but Im not aware of 
any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other authority, which would 
lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud.
I do understand that Mr B has communicated with others, who have also said they didnt get 
the service they paid for/expected. However, this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to 
safely say there was an intent for the builder to defraud Mr B. After taking everything into 
careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by both parties, on balance, I 
cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this 
appears to be a case of a builder, failing to honour their agreement by not providing the work 
that their customer expected.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Lloyds 
to refund the money Mr B has lost, as I dont think Lloyds treated Mr B unfairly when it said 
the payment he made was not covered by the CRM Code. And I dont think there was 
anything else Lloyds could have done to prevent his loss. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Mr B has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman