DRN-3212054
The complaint
Ms S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc recorded information about her with 
fraud prevention agencies. She says this is unfair and would like this information removed.
What happened
Ms S had a current account and savings accounts with RBS. Ms S has explained that she 
used her current account to receive her benefit payments.
On 23 April 2020, a benefit payment of just under £1,500 was paid into Ms Ss current 
account.  The money was transferred out of Ms Ss account in four separate payments on 
the same day leaving a balance of 38 pence.
On 30 April 2020, three £500 payments were paid into Ms Ss current account. These 
payments were then rapidly transferred out of the account to other accounts. 
In early May 2020, RBS received notification from the sending banks that the payments paid 
into Ms Ss account on 30 April 2020 were the result of fraud. After reviewing what happened 
RBS took the decision to close Ms Ss accounts. They also recorded a marker with the 
national fraud database, CIFAS.
Ms S says she wasnt aware the money paid into her account was fraudulent. Shes said that 
she never made any of the transactions out of her account, wasnt registered for online 
banking and that someone had stolen her benefit money. 
Ms S complained to RBS. She said she wasnt able to open another bank account due to the 
marker which made it very difficult for her to receive her benefit payments. And asked the 
bank to refund her benefit payment. RBS said it hadnt done anything wrong. And that in line 
with banking regulations they have an obligation to report incidents like this to CIFAS. RBS 
also said Ms S hadnt raised a fraud claim with them in respect of her benefit payment. 
Unhappy that the CIFAS marker would remain Ms S referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at Ms Ss complaint and asked her some more questions 
about what had happened in particular whether Ms S had shared her banking information 
with anyone or lost her bank card. Ms S said she hadnt lost her bank card or shared her PIN 
or banking credentials with anyone else. So, she couldnt explain how someone else was 
able to carry out the transactions on her account. She said she believes that her identity had 
been stolen. 
The investigator explained that to record a marker with CIFAS RBS would have to have 
reasonable rounds to believe Ms S was involved in fraud or financial crime. She said that the 
bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. And shed considered Ms Ss explanation of 
what shed said had happened, but she didnt think her explanation was plausible. So, she 
said RBS had acted fairly when it recorded the CIFAS marker.
Ms S disagreed. She said someone had stolen her identity details and managed to commit 
fraud on her account. She says shes a victim too and RBS should remove the marker. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS marker
Our investigator outlined in detail the level of evidence required for RBS to record a CIFAS 
marker against Ms S  so I wont repeat it in detail here. But briefly RBS need to be able to 
demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted. And that Ms S was complicit in this fraud or financial crime.
What this means in practice is that RBS must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have 
entered Ms Ss account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
So, I need to decide whether RBS had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof and 
load a marker against Ms S. Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied they have, and I 
say this because:
Ive seen evidence from RBS that other banks notified them that the three £500 
payments paid into Ms Ss account on 30 April 2020 were fraudulent. And that Ms Ss 
account, was used to pass them on  the money was transferred out to third party 
accounts the same day via online banking.
Ms S says she wasnt registered for online banking. So, it wasnt her who made the 
online transfers of her benefit money or moved the fraudulent funds out of her 
account. But this is contradicted by evidence provided by RBS.
RBS has provided evidence of its online banking processes which show that to set 
up online banking a customers full name, address, date of birth and account details 
needed to be provided. The bank would then send a unique customer number either 
by post or email. Following this an activation code would be sent via text and post. 
RBS have confirmed that Ms S set up online banking on 30 January 2008. And was 
re-enrolled on 6 April 2019. The mobile number and address used havent changed 
and are the same Ms S has provided to this service. So, I think Ms S was registered 
for online banking.
Ms S says she has been the victim of fraud and that an unknown third party took over 
her accounts. And took her benefit money along with the fraudulent funds paid into 
her account in April 2020. But for a fraudster to carry out the transactions they would 
need to be aware of Ms Ss unique 10 digit customer number, along with three digits 
from her PIN and password. 
Ms S has said that she hasnt shared any of her banking information with anyone 
else, no one has access to her home, and she hasnt written down her PIN or online 
banking information. And always had possession of her bank card. So, she hasnt 
provided a plausible explanation for how an unknown third party was able to gain 
access to all the information needed to make the transactions on her account.
I also note that a payment of £226 on 23 April 2020, made up of Ms Ss benefit 
money was made using online banking and credited the same account that the 
fraudulent funds were sent to. This payment mandate was created with the use of a 
card reader therefore, Ms Ss debit card and PIN were also used. This debit card was sent to the address the bank held on file for Ms S. I think its unlikely that an unknown 
third party would be able to gain access to Ms Ss home address to take possession 
of Ms Ss bank card without her knowledge or consent in order to make this 
transaction. 
Other payments made on 23 April 2020, were also made from Ms Ss account using 
RBSs mobile banking app and a new payee was created. For an unknown third party 
to be able to do this theyd need access to Ms Ss mobile phone. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that Ms S lost or had her mobile phone stolen. 
In order to access the mobile app, Ms Ss six-digit passcode, or fingerprint/face ID 
would have been required. For a new payee to be created theyd also need access to 
Ms Ss online banking and Ms Ss bank card and PIN. Given the way the transactions 
involved were made, and that Ms S says she never gave away her security details, it 
isnt realistically possible for anyone to have made them without her permission.
The payments on 23 April 2020 were made from an IP address that was also used 
before the transactions took place. The technical evidence shows that the same IP 
address was used four days earlier. Therefore, I do not believe the activity was 
carried out by an opportunistic fraudster. If they had access to the online banking 
from 19 April, then I would question why they would wait four days to remove any 
funds from the account and not attempt to do so as soon as they had access to 
Ms Ss account.
RBS has provided technical evidence that shows Ms Ss bank card was used on 30 
April 2020 at 11:38am to check the balance of her account. Ms S has said she had 
possession of her bank card. So, I think its likely it was Ms S checking her account. 
At this point the three fraudulent payments had credited her account, and Ms Ss 
benefit money had been spent (having been transferred out of the account on 23 
April 2020). 
If Ms S hadnt consented to the transactions and had no knowledge of the activity on 
her account, I think its reasonable to expect her to alert the bank. But she didnt do 
so at the time. I can see that Ms Ss account was mainly funded by benefit payments, 
and that this appeared to be her only source of income, so I find it quite telling that 
Ms S didnt contact the bank immediately, especially if money she relied on had been 
taken from her account without her consent. It appears Ms S only contacted the bank 
once RBS had decided to close her accounts and she discovered the CIFAS marker.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms S has said  that shes had her identity stolen, knows 
nothing about the fraudulent funds and has had her benefit money stolen. Having done so I 
think its most unlikely that an unknown third party would pay fraudulent funds into Ms Ss 
account unless they were confident that they would be able to withdraw the money or 
transfer the funds to another account from which they could withdraw it. Ms S has told us 
that she never disclosed her banking details to anyone else. And has said that she was in 
possession of her bank card. So, I cant see how an unknown third party would be able to 
access her account in order to carry out the transactions on Ms Ss account, including the 
withdrawal of Ms Ss benefit money, without her knowledge or consent. 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Ms Ss version of events.
For the reasons, Ive explained, Im satisfied that RBS had grounds to believe that Ms S was 
involved in the dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had. So, I 
think it was fair for RBS to register the CIFAS marker and I wont be asking them to remove 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman