DRN-3246460
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have declined 
their claim as it was deemed pre-existing. Theyre also unhappy as they feel they should 
have been informed about pre-existing exclusions when cancelling their initial policy in 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B first held a policy with RSA in 2017-2018 through brand A. Mr B contacted 
RSA in February 2018 following a letter he received about payment for renewal of the policy. 
He said he did not wish to proceed with the renewal of the policy and had cancelled the 
direct debit. Mr B explained he had also tried to cancel the policy via the automated system. 
The adviser apologised as they had experienced some issues with the automated system. 
She confirmed she had cancelled the policy back to its renewal date and that cancellation 
documents would follow. 
Mr and Mrs B went on to take out a policy through a different brand (which Ill refer to as 
brand B), for cover between 2018 - 2019 but it continued to be underwritten by RSA. They 
then came back to brand A for cover between 2019-2020 and again it continued to be 
underwritten by RSA. These were all separate contracts of insurance. Mr and Mrs B 
renewed the policy with brand A for cover between 2020-2021. 
In February 2021 Mr and Mrs B made a claim for hyperthyroidism. RSA declined the claim. 
They said it was a pre-existing condition, as the cat had her right thyroid gland removed in 
2017 and they felt it was linked to the current claim. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with this, saying they and their vet didnt believe it was pre-
existing. They also said they should have been told about implications for pre-existing 
conditions when the policy was cancelled in 2018.
RSA said that whilst Mr B hadnt mentioned purchasing a new policy in the cancellation call 
and they are a non-advisory service, they felt the handler should have mentioned potential 
exclusions considering that Mr and Mrs B had claimed on the policy. Given this they offered 
to reinstate cover under the original policy purchased with them, provided that the remainder 
of the premiums were paid for what it would have cost for that policy between 2018-2021. 
This was around £1,219. They also paid £50 in compensation as an apology.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and referred their concerns to this service. Our investigator 
didnt feel RSA needed to do anything more. As Mr and Mrs B disagreed it has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. The terms and conditions set out the agreement on which cover is 
provided and the schedule of cover also details important information.
I note the schedule for Mr and Mrs Bs policy for 2019-2020 when they took out a new policy 
with brand A says:
You accept that the policy wont insure:
any changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or behaviour before your 
cover start date, or any condition, illness or injury that you have been advised before 
the cover start date may lead to further illness or treatments. We will consider these 
to be a pre-existing condition or illness, and they will not be covered by your policy. 
We will not pay for any illness or injury that develops from these existing changes, 
conditions, illnesses or injuries.
The policy documents at renewal for 2021 to 2022 also said:
if you or your vet notices changes in your pets health or behaviour before your policy 
was taken out, or you have been advised before the cover start date that a condition, 
illness or injury may lead to further illness or treatments, we will consider this to be a 
pre-existing condition or illness and will not be covered by your policy.
So I think RSA were clear about what they considered to be a pre-existing condition and 
therefore not covered.
Mr and Mrs B have said they dont feel their cats hyperthyroidism is pre-existing and their 
vet agrees. RSA referred the details to their in-house vet who said that whilst 30% of 
hyperthyroid cats have unilateral disease which hemithyroidectomy corrects, relapse can 
occur resulting in changes to the normal thyroid lobe. And from what I understand it is 
possible for thyroid tissue to become diseased at a later time. 
I also note the veterinary notes say it was discussed in 2017 that it would be unilateral to 
start but may come back in the other gland. So I think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs B that 
this could be an issue later down the line. Based on what RSA define as a pre-existing 
condition, and as the terms and conditions are clear that cover excludes any condition or 
illness where youve been told before the cover start date that an illness may lead to further 
illness or treatments, I dont think RSA have declined the claim unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they feel RSA are responsible for the situation they find themselves 
in as the agent didnt advise of the implications of cancelling the cover in 2018. RSA have 
accepted, as Mr and Mrs B had made a claim on the policy, their agent should have 
explained the impact on cover moving forwards. 
RSA offered to reinstate the 2018 policy, meaning the cover provided at the outset would 
continue. However, Mr and Mrs B would need to pay the additional premiums, for that year 
and each subsequent year, they would have incurred had they continued with that level of 
cover/ policy. They also awarded £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this. Mr B said the agent was negligent, they cancelled the policy 
knowing their cats history in a bid to retain their business. However, having listened to the 
cancellation call it seems to me Mr and Mrs B had already decided to cancel the cover as 
they had cancelled the direct debit. A letter asking for payment is what prompted Mr B to call 
at that time and he explained he cancelled the direct debit as he didnt want to renew. He also explained he had tried to cancel it via the automated system but hadnt heard anything 
further. 
Whilst the agent should have explained the limitations on policy cover for Mr and Mrs B at 
that time, I think the decision to cancel had already been made and had the automated 
service worked, this call may not have taken place. Additionally, any new policy would have 
mentioned the pre-existing clause so if this was a concern to Mr and Mrs B I would have 
thought it likely they would have got in touch soon after the cancellation to see if they could 
reinstate the policy. 
RSA have offered to reinstate the policy which has been possible as they underwrite the 
policies for both brand A and B. Mr and Mrs B have declined this offer. Theyve also paid 
£50 in compensation as an apology. Given that they should have let Mr and Mrs B know 
about the implications of cancelling, I think this is fair taking account of the overall impact. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B but overall, Im satisfied RSA havent 
unfairly declined the claim as it has been declined in line with the terms and conditions. They 
should have been clear with Mr and Mrs B about the implications of cancelling the policy, but 
for the reasons explained, I think the offer to reinstate the policy and the £50 paid was fair 
and reasonable so Im not asking them to do anything more.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited need to do 
anything more to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman