DRN-4063488
The complaint
Mr K complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited mishandled his claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is an estate car with a diesel engine, made 
by a premium-brand car maker and first registered in 2010.
Mr K had a comprehensive policy for the car for the year from about June 2021. The cover 
included business use. Any claim for damage was subject to an excess of £740.00.
The policy was issued in the name of an insurance intermediary. Watford was the insurance 
company responsible for dealing with any claim.
Much of the complaint is about the acts or omissions of Watfords network repairer and the 
final responses issued by the intermediary on behalf of Watford. I hold Watford responsible 
for the act or omission of those companies and I may refer to their acts or omissions as 
Watfords.
In early August 2021, Mr K reported to Watford that an untraced driver had hit the car while it 
was parked and caused minor damage to its front. Watford instructed its repairer.
In late September 2021, Mr K complained to Watford about the lack of a courtesy car and 
about taxi costs. He also complained about other issues including an issue with the cars 
engine.
By a final response dated early October 2021, Watford turned down the complaint. It offered 
to repair the damage (but not the engine) subject to the £740.00 excess.
Mr K has told us that in mid-November 2021, he bought a replacement car at a cost of 
£5,700.00.
Between December 2021 and early March 2022, Mr K asked the repairer for updates.
In early March 2022, Mr K called Watford to ask why the car hadnt been delivered yet. In 
late March 2022, Mr K complained to Watford about poor handling of his claim and about 
delays in returning the car.
By a final response dated late March 2022 (but referring to events up to early April 2022), 
Watford said that in about October 2021 Mr K had withdrawn his claim but in November 
2021 declined to collect his car unless the repairer fixed the engine. So the repair garage 
had been applying storage charges, which Watford had recently negotiated and paid.
Watford said a recovery agent had delivered the car on about 4 April 2022. Watford 
apologised that the car had been left badly parked, without keys, with tyres deflated, with 
doors unlocked, with the rear parcel shelf missing, with new scratches and scuffs to the 
bumper and with safe keys and a toolbox missing.
By that final response, Watford said it had re-collected the car. Watford said it was sending 
Mr K its pre-accident value of £3,945.00. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us in early June 2022. He said that Watford should cover the 
taxi fares and reimburse him for the cost of his new car.
Our investigator said that we couldnt consider the courtesy car and alternative travel costs 
because  following the final response in early October 2021 - Mr K hadnt brought that 
complaint to us within six months.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Watford didnt repair Mr Ks car to an acceptable standard and returned it in a worse 
condition. Additionally, Mr K experienced severe delays and poor service from Watford. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Watford should reimburse Mr K for the price of his 
new car. She recommended that Watford should pay £350.00 compensation for the 
inconvenience, delays and distress caused.
Watford agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. He accepted the investigators opinion 
that we couldnt consider the courtesy car and alternative travel costs. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The delays led him to get a new car. 
Watford should reimburse him for the costs of the new car. 
Watford have admitted liability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator said that we couldnt investigate the issue of the courtesy car and 
alternative travel costs. Mr K accepted that. I consider that this was correct (and the same 
applies to the other complaint points covered in the October 2021 final response). 
The final response letter in March or April 2022 included the following:
The lack of clear instructions to [the repairer] has meant that your vehicle has been 
unnecessarily left in a repairer despite the claim being withdrawn by you. As a result 
you were left without a vehicle for a significant period of time and therefore used 
savings to purchase another vehicle.
I agree that Watford lost track of what was happening with the car, so it stayed unnecessarily 
at the repair garage. But that was in the period between mid-November 2021 and March 
2022. 
Ive seen a revised policy schedule dated late September 2021 showing that Mr K had 
changed the car covered on the policy. So Mr K had another vehicle from late September 
2021.That was well before Watford lost track in mid-November 2021. So that didnt result in Mr K 
being left without a vehicle for a significant period and it didnt result in him using savings to 
purchase another vehicle.
We expect insurers to value used vehicles by reference to the retail figures in certain trade 
guides. We usually find those guides persuasive because they are based on extensive 
research of likely selling prices. We usually find advertisements less persuasive because 
they contain asking prices that may be negotiated downwards.
Mr K has sent us advertisements for comparable cars for over £6,000.00.
For a car like the car, Ive seen a retail figure in the Glasss trade guide of £4,930.00.
However, Mr Ks case is unusual because the car had a serous engine problem, only minor 
bodywork damage in August 2021 and further minor bodywork damage by April 2022.
The engineering evidence is that the August 2021 accident damage didnt cause the engine  
problem. In September 2021, Watford received a report on the engine. It mentioned the 
Glasss figure of £4,930.00. But, taking into account the engine problem, the report said that 
the pre-accident valuation was £3,945.00.
I find it more likely that it was the engine problem rather than the August 2021 damage or the 
further damage by April 2022 that made the car uneconomic to repair.
So I dont consider that Watford was obliged to pay Mr K the pre-accident value of the car.
For the same reasons  and because he already had a replacement car by late September 
2021 - I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford (as well or instead of its payment of 
£3,945.00 for the car) to reimburse Mr K for the replacement car.
That said, Ive found serious shortcomings after mid-November 2021 in Watfords 
management of the claim and its communication. I dont under-estimate the impact on Mr K. 
I find that Watford left him in an impasse and chasing for updates, then delivered the car 
back to him in a worse condition than before. 
Putting things right
So Ive thought about whether Watford has done enough to put things right for Mr K.
Overall I consider that its offer of £3,945.00 relieved Mr K of all the problems with the car 
and paid him what it had been worth. Further, Watford has accepted the investigators 
opinion that it should pay £350.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Together, those two sums are more than I would otherwise have found it fair and reasonable 
to direct Watford to pay to Mr K. However, I find it fair and reasonable to hold Watford to 
what it has agreed. So I will direct Watford to pay Mr K £350.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to pay Mr K £350.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman