DRN-4311712
The complaint
Mr K complains about the claim settlement offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral).
Admiral are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Admiral have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Admiral should be interpreted as 
also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr K and Admiral. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. He made a claim against his insurance 
policy. The car was deemed a total loss and Mr K was offered £3,190 to settle the claim.   
Mr K was unhappy with this as he felt the settlement was too low and also that the hire car 
he was provided with would end when payment was sent to him. He complained to Admiral 
and as he remained dissatisfied with their response, he referred his complaint to our Service 
for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. As Mr K disagreed, his complaint has now been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Following his complaint referral to our Service, Mr K mentioned in an email (3 March 2023) 
to our Investigator that he was also unhappy with being unable to replace his childrens car 
seats following the car valuation. As no evidence has been provided that this was raised with 
Admiral as part of the complaint referred to our Service, it wont be considered as part of this 
decision. Ive asked our Investigator to make Admiral aware of this point as the policy terms 
(section 4: extra cover, page 14) potentially may be relevant here. 
Our Investigator has explained the approach our Service takes to the type of complaint my 
decision will largely focus on. More detail can be found here https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs 
In summary, our Service generally thinks that the fairest approach for an insurer to take 
when making a valuation is to consider relevant motor trade guides. These are based on 
extensive national research of likely selling prices rather than advertised prices. And they 
can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition and specification of a car. 
So we generally find them more reliable than adverts which dont take account of any 
negotiation from the advertised price.
Having considered the relevant trade guides, Im satisfied that the offer made by Admiral is 
fairly within the range of the valuations. I find that Admiral have treated Mr K fairly when 
reaching their valuation. 
Although its unfortunate that Mr K has said hes unable to get a car for the same value he 
was offered, Ive not found that he been treated unfairly by Admiral. The policy terms state 
that the most Admiral will pay is the market value. Market value is defined in the terms as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Mr K has told us about costs he incurred in the year leading up to the accident. Based on 
what Ive seen, these were general car maintenance costs to keep it in good working order - 
rather than modifications or value adding additions. A car not maintained to a reasonable 
standard would (generally) have a lower value to the trade guides.  
Ive also noted Mr Ks point about holding onto and scrapping the car himself, through 
breaking it down for parts as potentially being a better option (financially) for him. It should 
be noted that I cant see Mr K raised this with Admiral, but Ive addressed it for completeness 
- as it stems from Mr Ks dissatisfaction with the settlement value. Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr K requested to retain the car when Admiral were considering or settling the claim. I 
also wouldnt necessarily have expected Admiral to offer the option for Mr K to retain the 
salvage unless he prompted them. In any case, Im satisfied that Admiral were acting in line 
with the policy terms:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay:
to repair your vehicle
a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
The hire car
Im satisfied that Admiral treated Mr K fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms 
when only providing a hire car for a short period after they offered the claim settlement to 
him. 
Although my decision will disappoint Mr K, it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and Admiral. 
My final decision
My final decision is that io dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Daniel O'SheaOmbudsman