DRN-3969765
The complaint
Mr H says that after he made a claim on his classic car insurance policy Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited delayed in arranging repairs and allowed storage charges to 
accrue. He says it provided poor service to him overall.
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged in an attempted theft on 19 December 2021, shortly after he 
bought it. The car was taken to garage H. Mr H said hed arrange his own repairer, but he 
then agreed to use one of Markerstudys garages. It asked its agent to place the car with one 
of them on 21 December 2021, but by 24 December 2021 three approved repairers had 
declined the work. Mr H says one of them told him the car was likely to be written off. He 
says his broker had also warned him about that - so to avoid it, he instructed a local repairer 
(garage C). Markerstudy was told about that by its agent on 29 December 2021 and Mr H 
withdrew his claim on 4 January 2022. Later he paid his garage £1,272 for the repairs (plus 
a recovery charge) which he wants Markerstudy to refund. 
Mr H says Markerstudy allowed storage charges to accrue at garage H before his garage 
was allowed to recover the car to its premises. He thinks Markerstudy should pay those 
charges. He also says he should have had a courtesy car and that waiting times on 
Markerstudys phone lines were excessive, costing him £50. In addition Mr H says his 
computer crashed due to interference with his emails after he made the claim, when he 
received messages that werent genuine, from unknown sources.
Markerstudy accepted that it should have contacted Mr H to discuss the situation with him on 
24 December 2021. It apologised for the waiting times hed faced when calling it, but it said . 
he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, as his car was repaired by his own garage. It said he 
was liable for the storage charges, but that it would make a contribution. And it paid him 
£150 compensation for its overall poor service.
As Mr H wasnt satisfied with Markerstudys resolution, one of our investigators reviewed his 
complaint. He thought it was reasonable for Mr H to have instructed garage C without 
consulting Markerstudy and to expect it to pay the bill. In his opinion, the claim wasnt 
progressed in a reasonable time and Mr H was worried about his car being scrapped. So he 
thought Markerstudy should refund the cost of the repairs and the recovery, plus the storage 
charges and interest. Markerstudy pointed out that Mr Ms claim was made just before the 
Christmas / New Year holiday period. It said it hadnt delayed the repairs unduly, but that 
hed instructed his garage only a few working days after the incident. It said hed ignored the 
process to be followed under the policy if he wanted it to pay for repairs.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, not upholding it, as follows:
Scrapping Mr Hs car
I dont think theres any evidence that it was reasonable for Mr H to have been worried about 
his car being scrapped. He said it was in a police compound for 10 days and he thought the 
police might destroy it if it wasnt moved promptly - but theres no evidence of police 
involvement- and Markerstudy says the car was recovered to garage H at Mr Hs request 
straight after the accident on 19 December 2021. It says it stayed there until it was collected 
by garage C in January 2022. So it seems the car was safe and secure during that period, 
with no threat of scrappage.
Mr H also says his broker warned him about the cars possible scrappage. But as far as I 
can see, the only reference to it by the broker was in a letter it sent to Mr H straight after he 
notified it of the accident. In what seems to be a standard paragraph, the brokers letter said 
that if the vehicle should be considered a total loss - and Mr H wanted to retain it - he should 
contact the broker to ensure the car remained insured. I dont think the letter was meant as a 
warning that the car was likely to be written off. But if Mr H was alarmed by what he 
interpreted as a warning, he could simply have contacted the broker for clarification.
Mr H says one of the approved repairers that didnt agree to carry out repairs on his car told 
him (based on photos sent to it by Mr H) that it was likely to be written off. But hed just paid 
£12,500 for the car, and the damage to it was relatively minor, as shown by the low cost of 
the repairs. Insurers dont usually consider a car to be an economic total loss (let alone only 
fit for scrap) unless the cost of repairs is likely to be around 60% of its value. So it isnt clear 
why such a comment would have been made and Id have expected Mr H to have queried I 
tand asked for clarification.
 
Delay / storage charges
Mr Hs car was with garage H - where it was recovered to initially, for 17 days- but given the 
time of year, that period only included a few working days.
Due to their lack of capacity and the imminent Christmas / New Year closure period, none of 
the three approved repairers contacted by Markerstudys agent could take on the work. 
Markerstudy says its agent only informed  it of that on Christmas Eve, but it has accepted 
that it should have discussed the situation with Mr H that day. Thats partly why it offered him 
compensation. Mr H had told Markerstudys agent by 29 December 2021 that his car was 
going to garage C for repair, so presumably garage C had been instructed before that date. 
Garage C didnt collect the car until 5 January 2022 - the day after Mr H withdrew his claim.
In my opinion, although there were a few days when no progress was made before 
Christmas, I dont think it was an excessive period, especially as during that time 
Markerstudy attempted  to arrange repairs. Mr H says it took two days in January 2022 for it 
to instruct garage H to release the car. Markerstudy says that isnt the case. It told us 
recently that in its view it would be reasonable for it to pay the storage charges from 21 
December 2021 (when Mr H first said hed use an approved repairer) until 29 December 
2021 - when he said garage C would be carrying out the repairs. But when Markerstudy 
checked its records, they showed that it had paid all of the storage charges. So unless Mr H 
can produce evidence that he paid for some of them, I think Markerstudy has done more 
than it set out to do (or could reasonably have been expected to do) in terms of the issue.
Payment for Mr Hs repairs
Mr H had the repairs on his car done without providing Markerstudy with an estimate or 
photos of the damage. There are notes on its file to show that it told him just after the car 
was recovered that if he wanted to use his own repairer (and have Markerstudy pay for it) 
hed have to send it an estimate and photos of the damage for it to authorise the repairs. The 
policy says Markerstudy will only be liable if it has seen estimates and has authorised repairs 
- although in this case it seems only one estimate was required.Wed normally say its fair for an insurer not to refund the cost of repairs (even when a claim 
is in place- which in this case, it wasnt) if the insurer wasnt given the chance to assess the 
damage and the invoice. Sometimes we may say its fair and reasonable for the insurer to 
refund the cost of repairs regardless. But thats usually when the insurer can be shown to 
have acted unreasonably (for instance, by causing avoidable, undue delay). I dont think that 
applies in this case.
Mr H withdrew his claim before his repairer carried out the work. I dont think hes shown that 
he had no choice but to withdraw it. There was only a short delay on Markerstudys part - 
and theres no evidence of it ever having considered writing the car off. So in my opinion, Mr 
H wasnt forced to withdraw the claim, but he decided to do so anyway and to have the work 
done without consulting Markerstudy about the cost. In these circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for Markerstudy to decide not to refund Mr Hs outlay.
Other issues
Under the policy, Mr H wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, as his vehicle wasnt repaired by 
one of Markerstudys approved repairers. It compensated him for the long waiting times he 
faced when calling it. I dont think there is anything to show that Markerstudy was to blame 
for the interference with Mr Hs computer.
In summary
In my opinion, in offering Mr H £150 for service issues and agreeing to pay some of the 
storage charges, Markerstudy made a reasonable attempt to put matters right. In the end it 
paid more than it had intended to do, and whether it pursues that is a matter for 
Markerstudy. Either way, Im minded to conclude that it shouldnt be required to pay Mr H 
more compensation or to refund the money he spent on the repairs and recovery of his car.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Markerstudy accepted it. Mr H 
made many comments, but I think the main points are as follows:
When Mr H checked with garage C recently it confirmed that it hadnt been required 
to pay storage charges, but Mr H thinks Markerstudy misled him into thinking hed 
have to pay for storage, thereby causing confusion.
Garage H runs a police compound and it confirmed to Mr H recently that after 10 
days it applies to the police for permission to scrap cars. So he thinks the threat of 
losing his car was real, hence he had to stop the claim and have the car moved.
The delay in moving the car was due to the need for authorisation from Markerstudy. 
Mr H spent a long time trying to get it, but Markerstudy maximised delays.
Once he withdrew his claim, Mr H was no longer bound by Markerstudys process, 
which meant he didnt have to send it photos of the damage or an estimate.
Mr H got nothing for the insurance cover hed paid for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems there was confusion between Mr H and garage C about the storage charges, but I dont think Markerstudy misled him on this issue. It said it would make a contribution. 
Markerstudy didnt tell Mr H that it had paid all the charges because it didnt know that was 
the case until recently. I dont think Mr H has lost out, as hes not had to pay anything. 
In my opinion Mr H hasnt shown that Markerstudy maximised the delay in authorising the 
cars removal from garage H. Mr H told us initially that it took two days, which in my opinion 
isnt an excessive time. Initially, Markerstudy authorised garage H to release the car 
promptly to a garage nominated by Mr H on 20 December 2021 - but Mr H then decided not 
to use that garage. It says Mr Hs other repairer (garage C) didnt approach garage H until 5 
January 2022 and that the car was released the same day. I dont think theres evidence of  
undue delay - or that Mr H faced a financial detriment through any delay in the cars release.
Mr H says garage H collected the car after the incident and that he just went along with it. 
But Markerstudy says Mr H asked for his car to be taken there. Either way, theres nothing to 
show that the car was in danger of being scrapped after 10 days. Garage H may scrap cars 
in some circumstances, but that wouldnt have happened here, as an insurer had placed the 
car with it. Mr H accepts that his car was on site for well over 10 days, yet no steps were 
taken to remove it. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I remain of the view that there was no 
reasonable basis for Mr H to withdraw his claim in order to move / safeguard his car.
Had Mr H not told Markerstudys agent on 29 December 2021 that hed found his own 
repairer, I think it would have continued to look for one. Failing that, I think its likely that  
Markerstudy would have considered paying for the repairs done by a garage of Mr Hs 
choice, in line with the policy. So it would have been subject to reviewing photos of the 
damage and an estimate, which I think would have been reasonable. But Mr H decided not 
to follow the process. Once he withdrew the claim, under the policy Markerstudy had no 
responsibility for paying for the repairs. I dont think its reasonable for Mr H to say that as 
the policys process then no longer applied, it  should simply have paid for the repairs. 
In Mr Hs opinion, he got nothing from Markerstudy, but I dont think thats fair. It recovered 
the car and tried to arrange repairs quickly. It compensated him for not discussing his 
options promptly and it paid the storage charges. It was Mr Hs decision to withdraw the 
claim and end Markerstudys involvement, otherwise I think it would have done more. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but as I dont think hes shown that 
Markerstudy acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman