DRN-3769858
The complaint
Mr J complains about the end of contract charges when he returned his car at the end of a 
hire agreement to Ald Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (ALD). 
What happened
Mr J entered into a 48 month hire agreement with ALD in November 2017. At the end of this 
agreement, after he had returned the car, it was inspected for damage. Two items were 
found to be outside of the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
for fair wear and tear. These were a damaged tailgate pad, with a charge of £65, and a load 
area trim damage charge, also of £65. Alongside this, a charge of £160 was raised for there 
being a missing service; only 2 services had been carried out, in 2020 and 2021. 
Mr J complained about this invoice for £290 shortly afterwards, and ALD responded in their 
final response letter (FRL) by partially upholding his complaint. They agreed to remove the 
£65 charge for the load area trim damage as a gesture of goodwill but explained that the 
other two charges remained payable. They said that the tailgate pad had suffered a gouge, 
so this charge remained payable, and that the first service interval had been missed, so this 
charge had also been raised fairly. 
Mr J responded in December 2021 to say he would be bringing his complaint to our service. 
He felt that as he had returned the car to ALD having driven 6,000 miles less than the 
agreed maximum contracted mileage of 48,000 miles, it was already worth more to them 
than if hed used the full mileage allowance.
When Mr J brought his complaint to our service in January 2022, he also highlighted that 
hed put three new tyres onto the car before returning it, which alongside the lower mileage 
used, meant hed returned it in excellent condition for them. He said that based on their 
pence per mile charges if hed gone over the 48,000 mile allowance, as he was 6,000 miles 
under his allowance, they should owe him £240, but that they wouldnt agree to cancel his 
equivalent charges. 
An investigator here investigated the case and didnt uphold it. They explained that the one 
remaining damage charge and the missing service history charge were fairly charged, as 
they formed part of his contract. They said that the contract didnt contain any provision for a 
refund to the consumer if they used less than their full mileage allowance, and with regards 
to the three new tyres, it was Mr Js responsibility to return the car well maintained while in 
possession of it. 
Mr J disagreed with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He said that 
he was particularly bothered by the mileage issue. He paid a monthly sum to use those 
miles, and because he hadnt used them, in the spirit of fairness, he should be entitled to a 
refund on those unused miles.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr J was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it.
I understand and empathise with Mr Js point of view. He feels that as he hasnt used all the 
miles available to him on his contract, its only fair that ALD recognise this when considering 
any end of contract charges. Unfortunately, this isnt how the hire contract is set up. 
Like many car finance agreements, there is a maximum permitted mileage and penalty 
charges per mile if more than that amount are travelled. But the contract doesnt include any 
term to provide a refund to Mr J if he doesnt use the maximum permitted mileage. I cant 
reasonably say that ALD should do something that they havent agreed to do in the contract. 
Mr J accepted the contract and the terms included within it. 
It might help Mr J to understand this decision if I explain in very basic terms some of the 
issues ALD are dealing with when they come up with their contract hire offer. Its important 
for me to stress however that this is simply a hypothetical example. Im not saying that in his 
case, this is why ALD dont have to refund him, I am simply giving an example of the kinds of 
things under consideration when a finance company put together an offer for the contract 
hire market. 
In deciding up front what they are going to charge, ALD have to estimate the future value of 
the vehicle at the end of the agreement, based on it being in a fair condition, to work back to 
what the monthly hire payments it will charge need to be. The mileage allowance clearly 
forms a part of this; if the car has done more miles, it is likely to be worth less at the end in a 
comparable condition to a car that has done less miles. 
This is why there is a maximum permitted mileage on this type of contract, and then a 
charge per mile covered if a consumer exceeds that mileage. Its also why there is a fair 
wear and tear policy in the contract, to ensure the car is returned in a fair condition to be 
resold at the estimated price. I am taking a somewhat overly simplistic viewpoint here, but I 
think it helps to demonstrate why ALDs actions are fair.
There is no provision in this contract to refund Mr J if he covers less miles than the 
maximum. Partly, this is because the risk on the future value of the vehicle sits solely with 
ALD. If after four years, the market for this type of used car is suffering for whatever reason, 
and the car is worth considerably less than ALD estimated at the beginning, then ALD will 
lose out when they sell the car on. Theres no provision for the consumer to have to pay 
anything further in those circumstances towards that drop in value. The consumer has been 
quoted a fixed price for the term of the agreement, which wont change, whatever the 
circumstances (provided they dont exceed the miles allowed and meet the terms around 
things like fair wear and tear and servicing the car). 
However, where the car may be worth more than anticipated, ALD will benefit from this extra 
value. In simple terms, this is one of the reasons why a contract wont usually include any 
provision to refund anything to the consumer for using less miles than the permitted 
maximum. If this happens, and the car happens to be worth more, then ALD will benefit from this. 
When you consider the reverse situation, where the value of the car is less for whatever 
reason, ALD will lose out. In either example, Mr J, the consumer, will always have to pay the 
same fixed payments, so he is taking on none of the future risk on the contract.
For the purposes of this case, Mr J has signed up to a contract which includes a maximum 
permitted mileage, and a fair wear and tear policy. Hes also signed up to service the vehicle 
at the recommended intervals. 
Mr J has used under the maximum permitted mileage, meaning there is nothing further for 
him to pay here. 
Hes been charged £65 to repair a gouge in the tailgate pad. Ive examined the photos and 
can see a clear, long gouge in this area. The BVRLA standards say that any scratches that 
reflect normal use are acceptable, but this gouge is deep and long, so I cant agree that it 
would be classed as fair wear and tear in this instance. I think its fair for ALD to raise this 
charge.
Mr J has said that ALD have benefitted from him putting three new tyres onto the car before 
he handed it back. But Mr J has chosen to do this without consulting with them. When the 
car is returned, the tyres would need to comply to the BVRLA fair wear and tear standards. 
They say that when a vehicle is returned, tyres must be meeting the minimum legal 
requirement and comply with the vehicle manufacturers recommendation regarding the tyre 
type, class size and speed rating for the vehicle. They also highlight that there must be no 
damage to sidewalls or tread, and no evidence of uneven wear due to under or over 
inflation. 
I dont know what the situation was with the tyres Mr J replaced, but ensuring the tyres met 
these fair wear and tear guidance is all Mr J needed to do. If he chose to replace the tyres, 
its reasonable to assume he felt they needed to be replaced to ensure the car was returned 
in a good condition. There is no provision in the contract to refund Mr J if he chooses to put 
new tyres onto the car.  
The service intervals for the car are every twelve months or 20,000 miles, whichever comes 
first. Mr J has had the car for four years from November 2017 and has serviced the car in 
August 2020 and August 2021. Arguably, Mr J has missed two service intervals in late 2018 
and late 2019. The first documented service was in Aug 2020, at around 27,000 miles. This 
is around 33 months after the contract began.  
Mr J has said that he didnt service the car as a light didnt come on to tell him it was due a 
service. I appreciate that this might happen in some cars, but the contract is clear and says 
he must have the car serviced and the book stamped in accordance with the manufacturers 
service intervals. This hasnt happened, so a charge for one missed service, £160, has been 
fairly raised.  
Overall, while I have some empathy with Mr J, I am not upholding his complaint. Im satisfied 
that ALD have treated him fairly with regards to end of contract charges, and dont need to 
refund him for miles not used on the permitted mileage allowance. The invoice of £235 is 
fair, and I wont be asking ALD to do anything different.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman