DRN-3545078
The complaint
Mr L says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has treated him unfairly in relation 
to transactions on his credit card which paid for a hotel stay abroad.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Ls Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, credit card (Virgin 
for short) was used to pay the deposit for a hotel stay abroad for him and family members. In 
March 2020 the remainder of the costs were debited from his credit card account. The total 
paid was over £2700. They were due to fly at the end of March 2020.
As the Pandemic spread in March 2020 Mr L became concerned. Mr L says he was aware 
he could cancel for free before 16 March 2020. He says he repeatedly tried to call the 
company that arranged the hotel stay (the Arranger from now on) before 16 March 2020 but 
couldnt get through. On 17 March Mrs L emailed the Arranger about a refund. The Arranger 
took this email to be a cancellation and cancelled the stay. The Arranger also applied the 
cancellation policy in the terms which meant there was no refund whatsoever. Mr L 
continued to complain to the Arranger but without success. So he took his complaint to 
Virgin his credit card provider.
Virgin looked into the matter and didnt refund Mr L this outstanding amount. Mr L, still 
unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Virgin didnt have to do anymore. And Mr L remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L used his Virgin credit card to pay for the hotel stay. This means under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) he can bring a like claim against Virgin for any 
breach or misrepresentation made by the Arranger. But to be clear Virgin is only liable under 
S75 where its made out there is a breach or misrepresentation. 
Mr Ls Virgin credit card is also part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving Virgin an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants (the 
Arranger), namely through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right 
for consumers, nor does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider 
raising a chargeback to be good practice if the credit card provider considers the dispute has 
a reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about Virgin and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mr L fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision isnt 
about the Arranger who isnt a party to this decision or within my remit in this case. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
I should also add that Mr L has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
could Virgin challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr L does 
here, Virgin can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr L doesnt dispute that he 
used his Virgin credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transactions. So I dont think Virgin couldve challenged the payment on the basis 
Mr L didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
Virgin is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
There has been some debate as to whether Mr L did in fact cancel the hotel stay or not, but 
Im not persuaded this makes a difference. The relevant term of the contract says if you 
change or cancel after the 16 March you have to pay the full amount. From what I can see 
Virgin raised the chargeback and it was defended. And based on the defence Virgin decided 
not to pursue the matter further. Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Mr L contacting them 
before the 16 March. So from that point on he was liable for the full cost of the stay.
Ive looked into the pandemic restrictions in force in the country where the hotel was. And 
the restrictions requiring such hotels to close didnt come into effect until some time after Mr 
Ls trip would have ended. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the hotel was closed 
or couldnt have provided the service Mr L paid for. And Ive considered the relevant 
guidance and card scheme rules and I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of 
success. So I dont think Virgin treated Mr L unfairly by not taking his chargeback further.
What about s75?
Ive considered the preliminary requirements set in the CCA for a claim to be potentially 
successful. Im satisfied that the claim sits within the financial limits applicable. Im not 
necessarily satisfied that the required Debtor/Creditor/Supplier relationship is in place with 
regard this claim but for reasons I shall now give I dont think this makes a difference.
For similar reasons as above Im not persuaded there is a breach of contract here nor a 
misrepresentation by the Arranger or the hotel which means Virgin should refund Mr L the 
outstanding amount. 
Mr L had only purchased the hotel stay with the Arranger. So he doesnt benefit from the 
added protection of the Package Travel Regulations as this wasnt a package as hed 
organised flights separately. 
As Ive described there is no persuasive evidence that he couldnt have stayed at the hotel 
during the period booked. So Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the hotel. Similarly the Arranger was tasked with arranging the stay 
and did so. So Im not persuaded it breached or misrepresented either. So Im not 
persuaded that Virgin should do anything more.
Mr L has argued that he couldnt leave the UK. But that isnt the hotel or Arrangers fault and 
isnt a breach of the contract he add with those parties. Mr L says he couldnt have entered the country where the hotel was. Im not persuaded by this but even if that was the case his 
booking was for a hotel stay and it was available. So there is nothing more for Virgin to do 
here. The contract agreed was the provision of the hotel stay only. In these circumstances of 
a hotel booking only Mr L bears the risk of whether he can get to the hotel or not.
Mr L complains that he didnt cancel but sought a refund or a change to his booking on the 
17 March. But the term is clear that after 16 March Mr L becomes fully liable for the full cost 
(which hed paid). So whether he cancelled or sought to change the booking here doesnt 
make a difference as far as Virgin is concerned because he due to that term he was liable 
for the full cost of the stay either way by that time. So Virgin doesnt have to do any more.
Mr L says there were repeated attempts to liaise with the Arranger prior to 16 March. But 
there is no persuasive record of the contract Mr L had in place prior to that date being varied 
by Mr L or the Arranger prior to the deadline on 16 March. So I dont think Virgin has done 
anything wrong by not refunding him.
In response to the Investigators assessment Mr L says he didnt think the Investigator 
understood the complaint. And felt it was unjust that he has to bear the cost of a hotel stay 
he didnt make. But unfortunately for Mr L I see no persuasive reason for Virgin to bear the 
cost of this either. Mr L booked a hotel stay which did as such doesnt benefit from the 
enhanced protection of a package holiday. So Mr L bears the risk for getting to and from the 
hotel. And he hasnt shown that the hotel wasnt available.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr L wishes to read. And hes been left with a 
significant cost for a hotel stay which he didnt make. But Im not persuaded Virgin has done 
anything wrong here. And Accordingly this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman