DRN-2486374
The complaint
Mr V has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him 
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr V took six loans from Mr Lender between February 2017 and March 2020. A summary of 
his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 02/02/2017 06/05/2017 3 £200.00 £116.26
2 28/05/2017 06/09/2017 3 £200.00 £127.46
3 13/10/2017 06/01/2018 3 £500.00 £262.66
4 07/01/2018 08/10/2018 9 £1,000.00 £285.11
5 08/10/2018 06/12/2019 12 £1,500.00 £320.75
6 01/03/2020 06/03/2020 6 £200.00 £90.93
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Vs complaint. He didnt think it was wrong of Mr 
Lender to approve the first three loans. But the adjudicator thought Mr Lenders checks 
shouldve gone further for loan 4. Had Mr Lender verified Mr Vs circumstances at this point, 
the adjudicator thought Mr Lender wouldve likely seen that Mr V was borrowing heavily from 
other lenders. So, our adjudicator thought Mr Lender should not have approved loans 4-6. 
It appears that Mr V agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Lender disagreed and provided the following points for consideration:
Mr Lenders checks show that Mr V had two other short-term loans during loan 4's 
application.
Mr V confirmed he was not in financial difficulty and he had not missed any 
repayments on his short-term loans.
Responsible lending must be met by an element of responsible borrowing. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr V could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
Loans 1-3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Mr Lender to have provided Mr Vs first three 
loans. Both Mr V and Mr Lender appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about 
these loans. 
 
But taking into account what Mr Lender knew about Mr V at the time of his loan applications, 
and the fact they were taken out early on in the lending relationship, I also dont think Mr 
Lender was wrong to have approved these loans.
Loans 4-6
When Mr V applied for his fourth loan, Mr Lender completed the same level of checks as it 
had for his previous three loans. Mr V declared he was still receiving a monthly income of 
£3,100, and his monthly expenditure amounted to £1,454. This would have left him with a 
disposable income of £1,646 after meeting his financial commitments. Mr Lender has also 
told us it completed a credit check and it was presented with information showing Mr V had 
two outstanding short-term loans. 
This was now Mr Vs fourth loan in around 11 months. Mr V requested this loan a day after 
repaying his previous loan. The amount he borrowed was his largest loan to date and was to 
be repaid over a longer period of nine months compared to his previous three loans where 
the loan term was three months. 
So, I think Mr Lender should have now been verifying Mr Vs circumstances for this loan and 
any subsequent borrowing. This would have helped it to gain an actual understanding of his financial circumstances and to ensure if Mr V was able to sustain the repayments over the 
term of the loan, which was substantially longer than he had had committed to previously.
I acknowledge that Mr Lender completed affordability checks and it appeared affordable 
based on the information Mr V told it. But I dont think it was enough to just rely on what Mr V 
was telling it as his borrowing history and need to continue borrowing suggested he didnt 
have the disposable income he was declaring. 
Mr V has provided copies of his bank statements from the time when he applied for his 
fourth loan. I can see Mr V had at least nine outstanding short-term loans with other lenders 
with repayments totalling his monthly income. These repayments were nearly equal to Mr 
Vs actual monthly income, and this information was very different to the information Mr 
Lender gathered. So had Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks for loan 4, it wouldve 
discovered that Mr V couldnt afford to take on any further lending. 
For the reasons outlined above, Mr Lender needed to carry out the same sort of checks for 
loans 5 and 6. Had it done so, it wouldve likely discovered that Mr Vs circumstances hadnt 
significantly improved and he therefore wasnt in a position to take on any further lending. 
I think any lending from loan 4 onwards was likely to be a detriment to Mr Vs financial 
situation because he had a number of outstanding short-term loans and he wasnt in a 
position to sustain any further credit. So, I think Mr Lender was wrong to approve loans 4-6.
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr V from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr V may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to 
borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr V in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr V would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 4-6
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr V from the 
date Mr V originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in
relation to loans 4-6. *HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should 
give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Vs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right for Mr V as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman