DRN-2159066
The complaint
Mr E complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr E fell victim to a scam.
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here. But in 
summary, in August 2019, Mr E made four payments, totalling 2,720.00 euros from his 
Revolut account, to two different people, for what he thought at the time was a property 
rental. The accounts Mr E made the payments to were also held with Revolut. Mr E made 
the following payments;
22/8/2019 960 euros
24/8/2019 960 euros
25/8/2019 500 euros
27/8/2019 300 euros
But unknown to Mr E at the time, the payments he made were to fraudsters. On realising this 
Mr E reported the matter to the police and he contacted Revolut in September 2019 to let it 
know what had happened. Revolut looked into the accounts that had received the money 
and was able to recover a combined total of 49.79 euros from the two beneficiary accounts, 
which it returned to Mr E.
Mr E complained to Revolut and it issued its final response on 6 December 2019. It said that 
since the moment Mr E had reported the matter to it, it took the appropriate measures. It 
confirmed that it had been able to recover 49.79 euros. Revolut has also said it doesnt 
consider it is responsible for simply following the instruction of a customer.
 
Mr E then brought his complaint to our service, he said he thinks banks have a responsibility 
to protect people from this type of activity. One of our investigators looked into things and 
didnt think Revolut could have done anything to prevent the scam. In summary, he didnt 
consider the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious in their appearance and so 
thought it reasonable that Revolut didnt identify that Mr E may potentially be the victim of a 
scam.  Our investigator also thought Revolut did what it could to try and recover the money 
for Mr E, once it knew he had been the victim of a scam. 
 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
I understand that Mr E has also raised some points about Revolut in its capacity as the 
receiving bank. But I should point out that my decision here solely focuses on the complaint 
about Revolut in its capacity as the bank from which the funds were sent. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr E, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Revoluts actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave    
Mr Es account. I also dont think it could have done any more to try and recover the money 
Mr E sadly lost.    
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Es complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should 
reimburse him the money he has lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Resolut should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr E, when Mr E made transfers to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Mr E has accepted that he authorised the transfers. Because of this, Revolut had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But I dont agree that Revolut is right when it says it is not 
responsible for simply following the instructions of a customer. This is because, as I have 
said, there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Revolut shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.  
Having reviewed Mr Es account activity, I can see the account hadnt been opened for very 
long, at the time the payments to the fraudsters were made.  But I have seen that, in the 
weeks leading up to the scam, there was a pattern starting to emerge of large transactions in 
and out of the account and there had already been a number of transactions, for 
substantially higher amounts than the payments Mr E made to the fraudsters. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say the transactions were so unusual or suspicious that they ought to 
have alerted Revolut that Mr E was at risk of financial harm and Im not persuaded Revolut 
acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payments before processing them. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Revolut did what it shouldve done once Mr E reported to 
it, that hed been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Revolut to 
refund the money to Mr E, I need to be satisfied that Revolut should have acted sooner in 
trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference. In this case I can see that at the point Mr E raised the scam, 
only a small amount of money remained, because it had already been removed from the 
recipient accounts. So I dont think there was an opportunity for Revolut to recover any more 
money than it did. 
Its very unfortunate Mr E has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But I dont think I can fairly 
say Revolut should have done more to prevent him losing this money. So I dont think it 
would be fair for me to ask Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against 
Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman