DRN-1271447
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr C and Mrs G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out with mortgages in 1987 and 
1991.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked 
the possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 23 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available . Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr C and Mrs G have said the PPI was included on their account without their knowledge. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened, unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they 
didnt do something, especially when it was such a long time ago. And it would be more 
usual for the PPI to have been mentioned in the documents at the time. So, although I cant 
be sure, I think its more likely this is what happened  and that the PPI was offered as a 
choice, even if Mr C and Mrs G dont now remember it. But, overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr C and Mrs Gs knowledge and 
consent.
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but, 
as I will explain, I dont think they apply. I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Mr C and Mrs G, and this means 
it had a higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr C and Mrs Gs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to 
pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr C 
and Mrs Gs situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr C and Mrs G were eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr C and Mrs G received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr C and Mrs G would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr C and Mrs G in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr C 
and Mrs G would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr C and Mrs G took the PPI. This is because it appears to have been 
suitable for their needs, and fuller information probably wouldnt have made it appear less 
useful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman