DRN-3627823
The complaint
Mr L complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank defaulting his 
credit card account and how his payments to the account the been administered since. 
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I acknowledge Mr L will be disappointed, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator. I can only uphold his complaint if I found that Tesco 
had done something wrong or treated Mr L unfairly, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.  
In July 2021, due to Mr L experiencing some short-term financial problems, Tesco agreed 
that Mr L didnt have to make his July contractual credit card payment. And it suspended 
interest and charges for 30 days. Im satisfied Tesco treated Mr L fairly here  it provided   
him with some breathing space to help with his temporary financial situation and, in doing so, 
met its obligations to treat a consumers financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.
There is no dispute that Mr L didnt contact Tesco after the 30 days to update it with his 
situation  which Tesco asked Mr L to do when it agreed the breathing space mentioned 
above. And a second payment  due in August 2021, was also missed. 
Ive seen that Tesco wrote to Mr L on 25 August 2021 about this. The arrears notice set out 
that both the July and August payments had been missed. And it explained that Mr L needed 
to clear the arrears or contact Tesco to discuss his financial situation. It also explained that if 
no action was taken that Mr Ls credit file would be impacted. 
As Tesco hadnt heard from Mr L and no further payment had been received, Tesco issued a 
default notice to Mr L in September 2021. Like the investigator, Im satisfied that the default 
notice was issued within the timeframe set out in the guidelines laid down by the Information 
Commissionaires Office (ICO). 
The default notice explained what Mr L needed to do to prevent his account from being 
defaulted and the default being recorded on his credit file. Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco 
did enough to make Mr L aware of what he needed to do to avoid any further consequences 
of not making a payment or contacting it.
I acknowledge that Mr L says he didnt receive some of this correspondence as he was 
abroad following a family bereavement. Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ls loss, and I appreciate 
that this would have been a difficult time for him. But I havent seen anything that would 
make me think Tesco was aware that Mr L wasnt receiving his mail. Or that it needed to 
respond to him using a different communication method. So, Im satisfied that Tesco didnt 
do anything wrong when it wrote to Mr L.  
Lenders  in this case Tesco, have an obligation to provide accurate information about the 
conduct of credit accounts to the to the credit reference agencies (CRA). So, Im satisfied 
that Tesco didnt do anything wrong when it reported missed payments and subsequently 
the default with the CRA in relation to Mr Ls credit card account. 
Following the default, Mr Ls account was passed to a debt collection agent to administer. 
Tesco is entitled to do this under the terms of Mr Ls account. So, I dont think it did anything 
wrong here.
Mr L has other concerns about the time it takes for a payment made to the debt collection 
agent to reflect in his outstanding balance and on his credit file. But as the investigator 
explained, its not unexpected that there is a short time lapse between a payment being 
made to the third-party debt collection agent and it being passed to Tesco. 
And I consider it to be normal business practice for lenders to update the CRAs on a 
monthly basis. In Mr Ls case, I havent seen anything to make me think there has been any 
undue delay in his payments being applied to reduce his account balance or the CRA being 
updated with his payment details. So, Im satisfied that Tesco treated Mr L fairly here. 
Tesco has acknowledged that during the course of these events there were some service 
issues  such as, a call back from a team manager didnt happen. But from what Ive seen, 
Tesco has paid Mr L £60 in total - £25 sent by cheque and £35 credited to his account, in 
recognition of the inconvenience this caused. I havent seen anything that would make me 
think Mr L was materially impacted by this service issues, so Im satisfied the compensation 
amount is fair.
I do understand that Mr L may have felt that his credit card account wasnt a priority following 
his family bereavement. But, given the above, Im satisfied Mr L was aware of the status of 
his account and that he knew that he needed to contact Tesco if he was unable to 
recommence his payments before he went abroad. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco treated Mr L fairly. And it follows that Im not going to ask 
Tesco to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman