DRN-1950958
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in November 
1997 on a credit card. Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and didnt think Capital One mis-sold the PPI to 
Mr C. As Mr C and his representative disagreed the case has been passed to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr C, Capital One had to make it clear the policy was optional. It
also had to get Mr Cs agreement to take it out. 
Capital Ones records show that Mr C took out the credit card via a postal application, and 
its provided a copy of this application form. Looking at it I can see that Mr C has completed 
his details and there is a section titled Additional Information and within this there is a 
statement which reads: Please enrol me in Capital Ones Protection Scheme (see leaflet 
enclosed. Next to this there is a Yes and No box and Mr C has ticked the Yes box on his 
form. If Mr C did not want the cover, I wouldve expected him to indicate this on the form.
So looking at this form, I think Capital One made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although given how long ago this took place I can 
understand why he cant remember this.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it
was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr C has told us hed get very good benefits from his employer. Mr C says the benefits 
wouldve been six months full pay followed by six months half pay if he was unable to work 
due to illness. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr C couldnt work due to 
illness and this wouldve been paid alongside his employer benefits. And if Mr C had lost his 
job, this policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months. So I think he would have valued 
the extra security the policy gave him if things went wrong.
Mr C has also referred to the savings he had at the time. But the PPI wouldve allowed Mr C 
to keep these savings intact. 
So it looks like the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks
like the PPI was affordable. And as the premium was paid monthly Mr C couldve cancelled 
the PPI at any time if it no longer met his needs and I can see the PPI was cancelled in 
February 1998. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr C off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, but for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think Capital One mis-sold him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Capital One Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman