DRN-2430288
The complaint
H, a partnership (H), complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly removed its overdraft 
facility from its business account which it was led to believe was open-ended. Its said it lost 
out financially as it needed to pay for another overdraft with a higher interest rate and 
unauthorised borrowing fees. H has also said it has also spent a lot of time on the complaint. 
What happened
H held a business account with Lloyds which had an overdraft facility of £100,000 with an 
interest rate of 2.1% above the Bank of England base rate. The annual fee for this overdraft 
was £1,500. H has said it had used around £80,000 of the overdraft at the time. Lloyds says 
the overdraft was set to run until November 2018 at which point it needed to be renewed  
and H was aware of that. H doesnt agree. It says it was an open-ended overdraft which just 
needed to be reviewed annually to make sure it could continue.
In September 2018, Lloyds sent H a letter saying it was carrying out an annual review of the 
overdraft and H needed to get in touch if anything had changed. As nothing had changed, H 
didnt contact Lloyds. Lloyds said as it hadnt had contact with H by the date the overdraft 
was due to be reviewed, it made the business decision to extend the overdraft by one month 
only. And it says it sent a letter to H telling it to get in touch at that point. As H didnt get in 
touch, around 6 December 2018, Lloyds contacted H to discuss the account.
The partner who received the call thought it might be fraudulent so he declined to answer 
any security questions. H says during the call, Lloyds agreed to write to H to confirm what 
the call was about but nothing was received.
Lloyds took the annual fee for the overdraft on 11 December 2018 and H has said its 
statements showed the overdraft renewal date changed to December 2019. But on 
13 December 2018, a Lloyds representative let H know the overdraft had been removed as 
they werent able to carry out the review in order to renew it. The fee was refunded the same 
day. After this, H says it received a letter dated 10 December 2018 letting it know if it didnt 
get in touch with Lloyds by 11 December 2018, the overdraft limit would be cancelled.
An account review was carried out around 17 December 2018 and Hs overdraft was 
reinstated at a higher interest rate of 5% above the base rate as thats what was available. 
Lloyds has said at the beginning of December 2018, the overdraft was automatically 
renewed in error which is why the fee was taken and why it showed as expiring in 2019 on 
Hs statements and online account. It apologised and refunded H the interest added to the 
overdraft fee. Its also paid a total of £175 to make up for what went wrong. But it says it was 
Hs responsibility to get in touch to ensure the renewal took place.
H asked our service to look into things. The investigator initially upheld the complaint but 
later changed her mind after seeing more information. She thought Lloyds had acted in line 
with its terms and conditions when closing the overdraft facility and had given H enough 
notice. As the complaint wasnt resolved at that stage, it was passed to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020 based on all of the information wed 
received so far. In summary, I thought Lloyds hadnt removed the overdraft fairly and the 
complaint should be upheld because:
I thought the letter sent to H in September 2018 supported what it had told us about the 
overdraft needing to be reviewed. 
Lloyds hadnt given us a copy of the letter it says was sent on 8 November 2018 and its 
internal notes said it didnt tell H the overdraft had been extended. So I wasnt satisfied H 
had been told the overdraft had been extended by one month only. And I thought it was 
reasonable when the overdraft didnt end and Lloyds hadnt got in touch for further 
information, H thought the decision had been made to continue the overdraft.
I was persuaded by what H had said about not receiving other letters prompting it to get 
in touch with Lloyds. Considering how essential the overdraft was to its business, I didnt 
think H would risk losing it by not responding to letters received. And if the review did 
take place, I thought it was likely things would just continue as they were. 
I didnt think it was reasonable to expect H to have responded to requests it didnt know 
about. And I thought Lloyds couldve done more to get in touch by other means earlier.
In absence of a recording of the call on 6 December 2018, I was persuaded H expected 
a letter following the call to confirm it wasnt fraudulent. As H didnt receive anything  
and as far as it was aware, there wasnt anything outstanding on the account  I thought 
it was reasonable H didnt contact Lloyds to complete a review. 
I didnt think H was aware the overdraft still needed to be reviewed and that it needed to 
do anything. And that was supported by Lloyds taking the fee and changing the review 
date online. So I thought it was reasonable H was confused and I didnt think Lloyds had 
given me enough to show it explained things clearly to H or what it needed to do. 
To put things right in this case, I thought Lloyds should:
refund the difference in interest on the overdraft H initially had and what it ended up 
paying on the overdraft when it was reinstated at a higher rate
refund the £250 overdraft fee H had to pay for the reinstated overdraft
refund the unauthorised borrowing fee and added interest H was charged when the 
facility was removed but the outstanding amount hadnt yet been paid off
pay 8% simple interest on all of the above from the date the amounts were charged until 
the date Lloyds settles it* 
I didnt think it was fair to tell Lloyds to pay the difference in interest beyond when the 
reinstated overdraft ended as H was planning to eventually move to another bank anyway. 
I also thought carefully about the overdraft fee of £1,500 that H wouldve likely paid if things 
hadnt gone wrong. But in this case, I thought H wouldve either moved to another bank 
before renewal or waited until the year was over rather than moving shortly after renewal. So 
I didnt think it would be fair for Lloyds to deduct that fee from the amount above. I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. H didnt 
make any comments. Lloyds sent further information just after my provisional decision was 
sent. This included letter templates; details of what was sent on 8 November 2018; 
confirmation that the letter sent on 10 December 2018 giving H a deadline of the following 
day to respond was sent at 4pm; confirmation a recording of the call on 6 December 2018 
was no longer available; contact notes showing unscheduled calls made to H by members of 
staff unknown to it; and confirmation that no lending reviews have been carried out 
previously. It didnt give any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive thought carefully about the new information provided. And I think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Lloyds has given us a number of letter templates and a screenshot to show what was sent to 
H on 8 November 2018. And its told me which specific template wouldve been sent. From 
what Ive seen in this case, Im not satisfied the letter specified by Lloyds (AG250) was sent 
on 8 November 2018 as its not shown as being sent on that date in the letter history its 
given me or the one provided previously. 
Lloyds has said it sent H this letter again at the end of November 2018 and beginning of 
December 2018 as reminders that it needed to get in touch before the overdraft was 
eventually removed. As explained in my provisional decision, I was persuaded by H that it 
hadnt received these letters as I thought it was more likely it wouldve contacted Lloyds if it 
had. And Lloyds hasnt given me anything further to make me think otherwise.
In any event, even if this letter (or any of the other relevant letter templates) were sent, it 
doesnt make a difference in this case. I say this because having looked carefully at all of the 
letter templates together with the screenshot from 8 November 2018 I dont think they make 
it clear H needed to get in touch for the review to take place. This letter refers to the terms of 
the overdraft and asks H to return a signed copy. It doesnt suggest this is part of the review 
 or explain what will happen if it doesnt respond. And as H wouldve seen the overdraft was 
still in place in November 2018, I still think its reasonable it thought the overdraft had been 
renewed for a further year and it didnt need to do anything further. 
Lloyds has given me a record of previous unscheduled contact made to H by a member of 
staff unknown to it. This is to show H has previously taken calls from Lloyds without 
suspecting they were fraudulent. The two examples were from 2011 and 2015  so a 
number of years before the call on 6 December 2018. And arguably from a time when there 
was less awareness of the risk of fraudulent calls. I also cant see from what Ive been given 
if they were from a phone number H wouldve recognised to be Lloyds  even if the 
employees themselves werent known to H. 
Taking this together with what H has told me about the call on 6 December 2018  and 
considering theres no recording of it, Im persuaded its more likely H thought the call it 
received might be fraudulent. And when it didnt receive a letter confirming what the call was 
about, I think it was reasonable it didnt contact Lloyds to complete the review.
Overall looking at all of the information Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Hs complaint and 
direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by:
refunding the difference in interest on the overdraft H initially had and what it ended up 
paying on the overdraft when it was reinstated at a higher rate
refunding the £250 overdraft fee H had to pay for the reinstated overdraft
refunding the unauthorised borrowing fee and added interest H was charged when the 
facility was removed but the outstanding amount hadnt yet been paid off
paying 8% simple interest on all of the above from the date the amounts were charged 
until the date Lloyds settles it* 
*If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell H how much its taken off. It should also give H a 
certificate showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman