DRN-2213468
The complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as
Skoda Financial Services, have not provided sufficient redress when allowing him to reject a
vehicle that was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020. I explained that I was 
expecting to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from that provisional decision is set out 
below.
Mr B took receipt of a new car in January 2019. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with VWFS.
He had problems with the car and the manufacturer agreed that there were issues with the
model. They said there was a delayed response when accelerating and some judder and
loss of power.
They did a software update but explained that some judder was still present. But Mr B was
disappointed with the car. He contacted VWFS and they agreed to allow him to return the
vehicle and terminate his agreement early. They said theyd return his deposit, but they
didnt agree to return any of the finance instalments Mr B had paid as they said hed
covered, pro-rata, more miles than he should have under the agreement.
Mr B was disappointed with their response. He thought they should return all of his finance
instalments and that the relevant legislation supported that view. He referred his complaint to
this service.
Our investigator didnt agree. She explained that the relevant legislation allowed the
business to deduct a sum for reasonable use of the car. She noted that Mr B had been able
to cover 5,700 miles by the time the car was returned, and she thought that was a 
reasonable mileage and that it wasnt therefore necessary for VWFS to return any of the 
finance instalments to Mr B. She understood that hed not driven the car since the software 
upgrade as hed thought it unsafe to do so but she noted the manufacturer hadnt agreed 
with that and had suggested it was safe to drive. The investigator did note that VWFS hadnt 
added interest to the deposit they were returning. She explained it was normal for this 
service to request that.
VWFS agreed to add the interest but Mr B was still unhappy. He insisted that he was entitled
to a full refund and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into
complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
It's not disputed that this car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied as the
manufacturer accepted there were faults with it.
In those circumstances wed usually expect the business to allow a consumer to reject the
goods and to return their deposit with interest to compensate the consumer for being
deprived of that money. So, I would agree with the investigator up to that point.
The relevant legislation also allows VWFS to retain some of the finance instalments to
compensate them for the usage that the consumer has had from the vehicle. Here VWFS
have suggested they should be allowed to retain all the finance instalments as Mr B had
reasonable use of the car. Theyve explained he had travelled, pro-rata, more than he was
contracted to travel.
But its clear the car was faulty from the beginning so, whilst Mr B was able to drive a
reasonable mileage in the car, that driving was impaired. Mr B would clearly have been
experiencing a loss of power on acceleration and some juddering from the onset. I dont
think a reasonable person would think the use of the car wasnt impaired and I think VWFS
should therefore refund some of Mr Bs finance instalments as a result.
Ive thought about how much that should be. Mr B says he hasnt been able to drive the car
since the software upgrade as hes been concerned about the safety of the vehicle. But I
dont think there are any safety concerns with the car and the business are suggesting its
safe to drive. The manufacturers email of 5 June 2019 suggests that the throttle response is
now satisfactory but there may still be some judder. It does not refer to any safety concerns
and explains that the car will improve over the next 5-600 miles as the software re-learns.
So, Im not persuaded the business should refund instalments since Mr B stopped driving
the car.
But I am persuaded they should refund 10% of his finance instalments in respect of loss of
use from inception of the finance agreement until 31 May 2019 when the software update
was completed. That should also refund 5% of the finance instalments Mr B has made since
that time because its clear from the manufacturers response that whilst the car is better, its
still not performing optimally, and it should be as it was a new car when Mr B took receipt of
it.
Mr Bs also been inconvenienced by these matters. Whilst its clear VWFS were fair whenallowing him to reject the vehicle they should have added interest to the refund of the deposit
and could have refunded some of the money Mr B had paid them in respect of loss of use.
Thats led to Mr B having to escalate his complaint to this service. Mr B has also had to take
the car back to the dealership and whilst I can see he was provided with a courtesy car, its
clear he was inconvenienced by this. So, in the circumstances, I think VWFS should pay him
£150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
refund 10% of the finance instalments Mr B paid up to, and including, 31 May 2019.
They should add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund 5% of the finance instalments Mr B has paid, if any, since 31 May 2019 and
add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
pay Mr B 8% simple interest per year on the deposit refund, from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
VWFS accepted my provisional decision but Mr B didnt. He insisted the car was unsafe to 
drive and could have stalled at a roundabout. He said hed been unable to get insurance. 
He also disputed the payment Id suggested for distress and inconvenience. He thought it 
should be higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs concerns and I did consider whether it was fair to suggest the car was 
dangerous to drive. But I was, and still am, persuaded by the manufacturers advice. The 
letter of 5 June says the throttle response is now okay but there may be some judder. It 
doesnt refer to any safety concerns and I think it would have done if there were any. 
Mr B has also set out why he thinks he should be awarded more than £150 in compensation. 
Hes explained that the car was in the garage on four occasions. I think Ive taken that into 
account when asking VWFS to refund some of his finance instalments in respect of lack of 
use. Hes also explained that its been time consuming having to deal with the issue. I can 
understand that but having considered all of the circumstances Im persuaded £150 
compensation is sufficient here.
So, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision on this complaint and that 
now becomes my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and to tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:refund 10% of the finance instalments Mr B paid up to, and including, 31 May 2019.
They should add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund 5% of the finance instalments Mr B has paid, if any, since 31 May 2019 and
add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
pay Mr B 8% simple interest per year on the deposit refund, from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman