DRN-3980269
The complaint
Mr X, via his representative, complains about the service hes received from M&N Insurance
Service Ltd (M&N) over a number of years.
What happened
M&N has been Mr Xs insurance broker for a significant number of years.
Mr X has a representative acting on his behalf handling his insurance related matters. In
recent years, following communication between Mr Xs representative and M&N, the
relationship has deteriorated to the extent that M&N terminated their relationship with Mr X in
September 2021.
Mr Xs representative has raised a number of complaints about M&N and ultimately has
brought them to this service.
Our investigator looked into things. He said part of the complaint fell outside our jurisdiction
to consider as it was brought to us too late. For the complaint points that were within our
jurisdiction, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint or recommend M&N do anything
further.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain this final decision is in relation to the complaint points which are in
my jurisdiction to consider. I decided a complaint point about Mr X allegedly being told by
M&N to exaggerate a claim in 2007 was outside my jurisdiction as it was brought to this
service too late. Ive written to Mr X and his representative separately about that.
I recognise Mr Xs representative feels very strongly about M&N, their staff and their 
handling of Mr Xs insurance over the years. Mr X has also raised several complaints about 
the individual insurers attached to the policies which were arranged by M&N. But this final
decision is solely about M&N.
Mr Xs representative has also outlined to this service what he says are important issues,
and how he thinks they should be investigated, what evidence should be relied on and the
actions he thinks should be taken against M&N. Whilst I recognise Mr Xs representatives
feelings about M&N, Im going to focus on what I believe is important in reaching a final
decision which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Whilst I havent commented individually on every event which occurred, every
communication between the two parties, or every accusation thats been made about M&N,
Ive considered all the information provided by both parties when reaching my final decision.
I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead this reflects the informal nature of
this service and my role within it. I also recognise Mr X has said which information he thinks
this service should ask for and rely on, but Ive taken into account what information I
consider important to reach a final decision which is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.
The disclosure of legal expenses claims to prospective insurers
Mr Xs representative says M&N have wrongly restricted access at renewal to prospective
insurers by disclosing legal expenses claims that have been made under Mr Xs insurance
policies over the years. Mr Xs representative says M&N shouldnt have disclosed the claims
and they didnt need to tell prospective insurers about them.
Ive considered what Mr Xs representative has said here, and Ive reached the same
outcome as our investigator, and for the same reasons.
To conclude M&N has acted unreasonably, Id need to be persuaded the following had 
happened:
M&N disclosed the legal expenses insurance claims when they did not need to do so
That if M&N hadnt disclosed this when searching for quotes, the prospective insurers
wouldnt have asked for this information, or been able to obtain it
M&N disclosed this information but didnt need to, and the insurer didnt need to 
know about it, but because it now does it has then led to the insurer deciding not to 
offer cover which they otherwise wouldve but for being told about this
Our investigator said M&N had to disclose material information when acting as his broker
and to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And he referred to the
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Mr Xs
representative doesnt agree with how the investigator has considered this complaint point,
by referring to CIDRA, and whilst I appreciate Mr Xs representative doesnt agree, I too think
this is relevant here. Ill explain why.
M&N was acting as Mr Xs broker and agent when arranging his insurance policies. CIDRA
sets out the obligations on consumers when taking out an insurance policy and that is to
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. It also outlines a number of remedies
when a qualifying misrepresentation occurs.As M&N were Mr Xs broker and acting as his agent when arranging his insurance policies,
M&N would also have needed to take care not to make a misrepresentation on behalf of
Mr X when arranging his policy. If an insurer had asked a specific question about general
claims, either directly about legal expenses, or about any losses, incidents or claims  as
insurers often do  it wouldnt have been unreasonable for M&N to disclose the legal
expenses claims.
Like our investigator explained, its not entirely clear exactly what specific questions M&N
were asked over the years, by each of the insurers on M&Ns panel (of which there were
multiple at each renewal), or whether M&N voluntarily gave that information before being
asked, or a combination of being asked, and volunteering that information. But regardless of
that uncertainty, I dont think that changes things overall. Ill explain why.
Either way, I dont think on balance this has prejudiced Mr X. I say this because any claims
or losses history is an indicator of risk to an insurer, but each insurer will decide individually
whether that matters to them, and to what extent. And asking about claims and losses more
generally is a common question asked across the insurance industry during a sale (or
renewal) when an insurer considers whether to offer an insurance policy, the price to charge
and the terms the policy should be offered under  if at all.
Mr Xs representative says one of the insurers he was placed with said that legal expenses
claims never needed to be disclosed, and the information isnt recorded on the Claims and
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). So, he therefore says it was unfair of M&N to tell prospective
insurers about this and consequently they shouldnt have been disclosed.
Ive considered all the information provided, and I dont agree with Mr Xs representative
here. From the information provided, that insurer hasnt said no insurer needs to know.
Instead they said they dont record them on CUE. And I dont think theyre able to answer on
behalf of all the other insurers across the insurance industry about what questions they
separately ask, or need to ask, to assess risk, and what other insurers take into account
when deciding whether to offer an insurance policy in the first place.
Across the insurance industry, questions about previous claims are asked in many different
ways. Some insurers ask broader questions, such as about any incidents, claims, losses,
whether insured or not, and not solely restricting this to home insurance losses and claims.
And instead, needing to know about any claims, which would include legal expenses claims.
Given a number of insurance companies didnt offer a policy due to the legal expenses
claims history, Im not persuaded, on balance, they wouldve deemed it important or relevant
enough not to offer cover on this basis alone, but not important enough to ask about it at
some point in the sales or renewals process, had M&N not already disclosed it.
Essentially Mr Xs representative is saying M&N has over-disclosed information which he
thinks they should have purposely withheld from prospective insurers, which has then led to
options being restricted as a result. But based on everything Ive seen; Im not persuaded,
on balance, this was the case here.
As I say, acting as Mr Xs broker and agent, M&N was responsible for not making a
misrepresentation on his behalf when arranging a policy. I dont think M&N has acted unfairly
here, as if this information wasnt shared, either directly by a specific question or not, and it
was later discovered by the insurer, they might have voided the policy, declined a claim etc.
which wouldve been detrimental at a later stage, rather than the insurer being aware from
the outset of previous claims and accepting to take on that risk.With this in mind, Im not persuaded M&N has acted unfairly or unreasonably or restricted
Mr Xs options by unnecessarily disclosing information about the legal expenses claims
history.
Mr Xs representative has also raised concerns about the reasons and motives Mr Xs policy
was placed with particular insurers over the years, but M&N has explained they had difficulty
in arranging policies due to the claims history. M&N has explained they offered the cheapest
they could obtain which provided a high level of service. They also noted Mr X hadnt asked
them to provide details of commission previously at any point.
I dont find what M&N has said here unreasonable, and they outlined the difficulties they had
in placing renewals to Mr X at the time. I cant hold M&N responsible if an insurer doesnt
wish to offer cover.
If Mr X was unhappy with the price of the policy offered at renewal, or whether it provided
sufficient cover, or with the service hed received from M&N over the years, he was free to
obtain insurance elsewhere separate from M&N.
Were the policies mis-sold due to not providing adequate cover for working from home?
M&N previously said they thought this complaint point was outside our jurisdiction. This is
because Mr Xs representative had provided an email from 2017 where working from home
was discussed, so M&N said as it was more than three years ago it was complained about
too late.
Our investigator said that the relevant timescale rules (in DISP in the Financial Conduct
Authority handbook  available on their website) referring to three years only applied if the
event was more than six years ago, which wasnt the case here. And it appears that M&N
has accepted this and is no longer raising a jurisdiction objection on this point, so Ive gone
on to consider this complaint point.
Mr Xs representative says the policies were mis-sold as they didnt provide sufficient cover
for working from home. This is because Mr X operated a business from home, which
included stock. Mr Xs representative says M&N were fully aware of this but didnt ensure he
had adequate cover.
Mr Xs representative says additional standalone business cover has now been taken for
this, separate to Mr Xs home insurance policy.
The underwriter of Mr Xs policy has changed several times over the years. And Mr X says
this was previously covered but was no longer covered at some point over the years. Ive
seen information from 2014 when Mr Xs representative contacted M&N to query business
cover limits. And the information provided indicates there was some discussion about it at
the point, and that cover hadnt been in place for a significant number of years. But it doesnt
appear this was added at that point. And it didnt come up again until 2017 when M&N
emailed to say theyd noted the schedule to say there was a business operating from the
home.
I do acknowledge that Mr Xs representative says the policy wasnt suitable as it didnt
provide sufficient cover. However, I also need to take into account whether there has been
any detriment as a result.Firstly, there hasnt been any claims or losses which have been declined as a result of not
having sufficient cover. If that had been the case, then Id need to consider whether M&N
was responsible for causing the claim to be declined by not ensuring correct cover was in
place. But thats not relevant here as there were no claims.
The policies were to cover the contents of Mr Xs home, and they fulfilled this objective.
Whilst there may not have been sufficient cover for business, there was no detriment as no
claims occurred. I understand that Mr X has now taken a standalone policy for this. So, even
if he was aware sooner, then he either would have needed to take an entirely different
contents insurance policy to cover it, or a separate standalone policy as he has now done.
Therefore I cant conclude there was any detriment here as Mr X would always have had a
contents policy in force, either this one and a separate standalone business policy, or a
completely different policy to cover both  and I havent been provided any evidence to show
that this would have been at a lower cost. Consequently, even if cover was insufficient, I
cant conclude this has detrimentally impacted Mr X, and Im also unable to conclude it was
mis-sold.
Were the policies mis-sold on the basis of insufficient legal expenses cover?
Mr Xs representative has raised complaints about the individual legal expenses insurance
providers and claims hes made, and they are being considered separately and dont form
part of my final decision here. But Mr Xs representative says the home insurance policies,
with legal expenses insurance attached, were mis-sold as the legal expenses cover was
insufficient for the situation(s) he found himself in.
To be persuaded the home insurance policies had been mis-sold on the basis the attached
legal expenses insurance didnt have sufficient cover, Id need to be satisfied:
That at the time of the sale (or renewal), Mr X had told M&N about the level of cover
he required, and that wouldve covered the circumstances he later found himself in
There were alternative policies available which wouldve provided sufficient cover
That M&N failed to find a policy which met the needs he asked for
That M&N had recommended a different policy to that which was asked for, but didnt
tell Mr X that it didnt meet the legal expenses cover he had specifically asked for
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded the above has happened. Mr Xs
representative has said the cover wasnt sufficient, but that is retrospectively, after he has
needed to use it for different situations. It was only then he has alleged the policy was
unsuitable based on the coverage and limits, which were relevant to the specific
circumstances he needed at that specific time.
I havent been provided with any evidence which supports a more suitable or specific level of
cover was asked for by Mr X, and that M&N failed to obtain it. Instead, this complaint point is
being made retrospectively on the basis of the cover Mr X later needed, when he was in an
unforeseen claim(s) position.
Therefore, Im not persuaded the policies were mis-sold by M&N on this basis.The 2022 renewal
Mr Xs representative also raised concerns with our investigator about the renewal in 2022.
Our investigator explained this wasnt part of the existing complaint(s) with our service as it
was a new event. Whilst Mr Xs representative disagreed with this, I agree with our
investigator here. So, I havent considered this here in my final decision.
As explained by the investigator, if Mr Xs representative remains unhappy with the 2022
renewal, hed need to raise this separately with M&N.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman