DRN-2215407
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc, trading as Vauxhall Finance. He also says the finance was 
misrepresented to him.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Vauxhall Finance, who are also the supplier of the 
car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says 
we should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it 
was of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here 
was around two and a half years old and had completed about 26,500 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Mr H says that there was a paint repair required; that tyres were the incorrect type and that 
there was an overheating problem. He says the business failed to resolve these issues.
The job cards Ive been provided with suggest the dealership were not able to replicate the 
overheating issue Mr H complained of. They noted the engine temperature was normal when 
they looked at the car in May 2019 and Ive not seen evidence the car was returned to them 
for this issue, which I think would have been the case if it had not been resolved.
There were smart repairs completed to the bumpers in May 2019. Ive not seen evidence 
that these repairs were complained about and I think it would therefore be unreasonable to 
suggest the car was of unsatisfactory quality because repairs had been unsuccessful.
I can see no record of the report of incorrect tyres.
Having reviewed the timeline of faults with the car I dont think it would be fair to say there is 
evidence it hasnt been of satisfactory quality.
misrepresentation
If the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr H and if he would not have proceeded 
with the deal if it were not for that misrepresentation, I would ask Vauxhall Finance to take 
some action.
Mr H says the business included negative equity in the finance agreement from a vehicle 
hed been using which wasnt his. The settled finance of the Ford is not included in the 
calculation for the Vauxhall. The trade in value for the Ford was £12,270.78. This is the 
same as the finance settlement figure. So, this didnt change the price of the car Mr H 
financed at all. The invoice shows the Total amount due figure is £14,287.78, which is £500 
(the deposit) lower than the Invoice total figure of £14,787.78. So, I dont uphold this part of 
Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H also says he was told there was only one previous owner, but hes subsequently 
discovered there were three. Thats something that is disputed by the business and in the 
absence of any other compelling evidence Im afraid I dont think there is sufficient 
information to suggest the deal was misrepresented to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman