DRN-3799619
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Curtis Banks Limited (Curtis Banks) caused an overall delay to the 
transfer of her self invested personal pension (SIPP). She also complains that contributions 
she made to the SIPP in October and December 2020 werent cleared for investment in her 
account as soon as they should have been. She says this meant that the unit price of the 
investments she wanted to make with the contributions fell  and she suffered a financial 
loss as result.
In addition she complains about a monthly SIPP fee that was applied before any of the 
assets had been transferred. She would like compensation for the overall delays and 
distress and inconvenience she suffered, as well as additional units to be applied to her 
SIPP for the delay in being able to invest her contributions. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs A took out an eSIPP which was marketed and provided by the Share 
Centre. Curtis Banks was the operator of the SIPP and was responsible for all the 
administrative work. 
Soon after the SIPP was set up Mrs A applied to transfer around £320,000 from her existing 
provider to the eSIPP. On 13 March 2020 Curtis Banks then wrote to the original provider for 
a list of the assets held  which effectively started the process. However the transfer  which 
was to be in-specie - didnt complete until 24 September 2020. 
Mrs A made a single contribution of £16,000 to her SIPP on 29 October 2020. On 
9 November 2020 the sum of £16,435.39 (after dealing commission) was invested into a US 
index fund. 
On 6 November 2020 Mrs A complained to Curtis Banks about the time it took for the 
contribution she made to reach her SIPP account. She said she expected to invest the 
contribution soon after it was made, but the money didnt become available until 
6 November 2020 which meant that when she purchased the investment its price had fallen 
causing her a financial loss of around £1,500. She also reiterated her previous complaint  
which she had made during the transfer process; about the overall time it took to complete 
the transfer from the existing provider.
On 23 December 2020 Curtis Banks notified Mrs A that it had received tax relief of £4,000 
from her contribution. So on 31 December 2020, £3,992.50 was invested into the same US 
fund  which represented the tax relief sum from the original contribution after dealing 
charges.
Curtis Banks said it didnt think it had caused any significant delay in transferring the SIPP 
assets. It said it had applied to the existing provider for information about the assets as soon 
as it received the transfer request but didnt get that information for around six weeks. And it 
said it confirmed acceptance of the transfer three weeks later, after which its involvement in 
the transfer process came to an end. It did accept that it should have referred the asset list it 
received from the existing provider in early June 2020 to the relevant department quicker 
than it did  so it offered Mrs A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by that 
delay. 
Curtis Banks also explained that the contribution Mrs A made in October 2020  with the 
intention of investing it the following day  was invested within the timescales set out in its 
key features document (KFD) and other information it had provided Mrs A. So it didnt think it 
was responsible for any investment loss Mrs A suffered by not being able to invest when she 
hoped to do so.
 
It also explained that, while it was responsible for the administration of the SIPP, it wasnt 
involved with the application or collection of any fees. It said that was the responsibility of the 
SIPP provider and suggested that Mrs A took up the issue of the administration fee she said 
she had been unfairly applied, with them. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with the offer of £100, so she brought her complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter but said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He made 
the following points in support of his assessment:
He hadnt seen any evidence to show that Curtis Banks was responsible for the 
majority of any delays. He thought its payment of £100 for the delay it accepted it 
caused between 3 and 19 June 2020 was fair and reasonable. 
The administration fees had been charged by the SIPP provider directly, so he didnt 
think it was fair to address the problem with Curtis Banks and suggested that Mrs A 
raised a complaint with the provider. 
He wasnt able to comment on Mrs As point about the time it took Curtis Banks to 
deal with her complaint as that wasnt a regulated activity and therefore not 
something we could investigate. 
He was satisfied with the way that Curtis Banks dealt with the contribution Mrs A 
made in October 2020. He thought it followed the timescales as set out in its terms 
and conditions (T&Cs) and made the money available in a timely fashion.
Mrs A didnt agree. She made the following points in response:
The transfer had been initiated in February not March 2020.
The information that was provided on 12 August 2020 suggesting that the transfer 
was imminent was obviously incorrect as it took a further six weeks to complete.
The investigator said that hed seen an email from Curtis Banks stating that it 
accepted the transfer on 28 July not 23 June 2020. In light of those inconsistencies 
had we seen the actual acceptance letter. 
The existing provider had said that it sent the assets to the new provider in late 
August 2020  but they didnt appear in the new SIPP until 25 September. We hadnt 
provided an explanation for the approximate four week delay in the assets being 
transferred.
The investigator had said that an in-specie transfer is a complex process which can 
take time to complete. But she had been advised that HMRC specify such transfers 
should complete in 30 days  which she thought ought to be a benchmark for 
consideration of any delays caused in this case, particularly as the transfer took six 
months to complete. 
The parties involved should have collaborated to apportion the level of responsibility 
each had in causing the overall delay. It was difficult for her to do so in the absence 
of all the relevant information required from each party.
She had been advised by the SIPP provider that, while it was responsible for 
collecting the monthly fee, it was for the service provided by Curtis Banks. She didnt accept that Curtis Banks had processed her contribution in a timely 
fashion. All the information she had seen suggested the money should have been 
available for investment almost immediately, which had been confirmed by her bank 
with respect to debit card payments. She was unsure why Curtis Banks became 
involved in the process of administering her online payment direct to her SIPP and 
thought its processes had caused the problem. She wasnt aware of any other 
providers that operated such a slow system.
The investigator responded making the following points:
Although Mrs A may have begun the transfer in February the evidence suggested 
Curtis Banks only received the relevant request forms in March 2020. 
The information Curtis Banks provided in August 2020 regarding the transfer was in 
respect of it being told by the existing provider that only the cash element of the plan 
SIPP remained to be transferred. 
Curtis Banks had previously provided evidence to show that it accepted the transfer 
on 23 June 2020.
From the evidence hed been provided with he thought Curtis Banks responded to 
any requests without unreasonable delays.
He thought the HMRC guidance Mrs C referred to which outlined a reasonable period 
in which a transfer should complete related to ISAs. He didnt think this applied to 
SIPP transfers and noted that Curtis Banks hadnt guaranteed a timescale in which 
the transfer would complete.
Curtis Banks had explained that it didnt have any involvement with setting or 
collecting fees  so it wasnt responsible for any matters relating to the monthly SIPP 
charge. 
The process regarding Mrs Cs SIPP contribution was that it may have been received 
into the SIPP within one or two days, but it then had to be transferred to the linked 
investment account held with the provider  which would normally take around a 
week to complete.
Although Mrs C felt that other businesses operated more quickly than Curtis Banks, 
that didnt mean it had done anything wrong or that he could reasonably uphold a 
complaint against Curtis Banks because its competitors may have quicker processes.
Mrs A didnt agree. She made the following points:
She still didnt believe the investigator has answered her complaint point about the 
transfer delays but wasnt prepared to pursue that any longer.
But she did think that the T&Cs extract she provided was unambiguous in saying 
that an investment contribution would be applied to the fund within 1-2 days of 
payment via debit card. So she thought if Curtis Banks had said something different 
in another document then it had published contradictory information. 
Wed failed to address the issue that the SIPPs website had an option to pay 
contributions to all accounts online. She didnt think it was fair if SIPP accounts were 
treated differently as it was reasonable to expect the same facility to be available to 
all products.
The contribution which the investigator said was made available on 5 November 
wasnt actually available until 6 November 2020  which meant it wasnt used for 
investment until 9 November 2020.
If it had been clear there would be a delay before the contribution was available for 
investment, she would have made alternative arrangements to ensure the 
opportunity to invest in October 2020 wasnt lost.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He made the following points:He thought the KFD, welcome letter, and T&Cs were sufficiently clear together in 
explaining how the contributions would be applied. So when Mrs A made a 
contribution in October 2020 it was paid into a pooled account and made available to 
the provider within a week  as set out in the documents.
As Curtis Banks didnt control or have access to the SIPP providers processes, it 
wasnt able to comment on the online option for making contributions. But he did 
think this was made clear in Curtis Bankss SIPP account T&Cs.
He didnt think that Curtis Banks had done anything wrong when it applied the 
contributions despite Mrs As view that the contribution wasnt made available until a 
day after he had previously suggested.
He thought that overall, Curtis Banks had acted in line with its T&Cs and hadnt done 
anything wrong.  
Mrs A remained dissatisfied because she thought the KFD stated that contributions would 
be credited to the SIPP between 1 and 2 days after the online payment. She thought that if 
Curtis Banks took on an administrative role for the SIPP then it should have ensured its 
processes were in line with those set out for the SIPP.
But as no resolution could be found the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mrs A, and I have some sympathy for her position here, but I think 
Curtis Banks offer of compensation for the delay it caused is an appropriate resolution to the 
complaint.
Delays in the overall transfer
Ive seen a copy of the letter that Curtis Banks sent to the existing provider on 
13 March 2020 requesting the in-specie transfer of Mrs As SIPP. The letter also included a 
request for details of the assets that were contained in the SIPP  so that it could confirm 
they were acceptable to Curtis Banks. 
Ive also seen that the existing provider acknowledged that request on 14 April 2020, but 
said it was working on applications that were around four weeks old. And despite further 
chases from Curtis Banks for the information it had requested, on 
6 and 26 May and 1 June, the information wasnt provided until 3 June 2020.
So, based on the evidence that Ive seen, Im satisfied that Curtis Banks had done 
everything required of it to that point and wasnt responsible for any delays up to that time. 
Curtis Banks accepts that from 3 June to 19 June 2020 it had received the required 
information but didnt pass it to the appropriate team for processing, so I think Curtis Banks 
was responsible for the delay during that period. 
Curtis Banks wrote to the existing SIPP provider on 23 June 2020 confirming it was able to 
accept the transfer. By 12 August 2020 the provider said most of the assets had been 
transferred and it was only waiting to transfer the cash component. But thereafter it said it 
was waiting for Curtis Banks to formally accept the transfer  although it later accepted that 
notification had in fact been provided on 23 June 2020. Ive seen evidence that Curtis Banks 
did send notification to the existing provider.It took a further six weeks for the transfer to complete after 12 August 2020  and I have 
carefully considered the actions of each party during this time. But I cant reasonably 
attribute any delays to Curtis Banks, because after 23 June 2020  when it confirmed it 
would accept the transfer  Curtis Banks wasnt responsible for the administration of the 
transfer. That was between the old and new SIPP providers who had to transfer the 
available assets and cash between plans. I know Curtis Banks became involved during this 
time and attempted to confirm the position for Mrs A when she contacted it, but effectively 
Curtis Banks had no further administrative involvement from that point. I note that in its 
acceptance letter to the existing provider Curtis Banks said, please communicate with the 
Share Centre, their email address is included in this email.
I know Mrs A is frustrated by the time taken to complete the transfer and I understand why 
she would consider the delay to be unacceptable. It did after all take somewhere around six 
months to complete. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt support the claim that Curtis Banks 
caused the delay  except for a period of 16 days when it accepts it should have acted upon 
instructions quicker. I have considered whether that delay may have caused any investment 
loss but as this was an in-specie transfer Im not persuaded that was the case. However, 
Curtis Banks has offered £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused by its delay and in 
the circumstances I think thats a fair and reasonable offer.
Delays in applying Mrs Cs contribution 
Mrs A says that when she made a single contribution to her SIPP on 29 October 2020, she 
expected it to be ready for investment by the next day. She says the T&Cs of the plan state 
that a debit card payment will be in the fund within 1-2 days of payment. She says that, 
following the delay in being able to invest, the unit price of the fund she wanted to invest in 
fell  costing her around £1,580 at that time. She thought the same applied to her December 
contribution. 
So Ive looked carefully at both the T&Cs and KFD that were applicable at the time to see if 
Curtis Banks did cause a delay by not following its processes. 
The SIPP T&Cs were enclosed with the welcome to Curtis Banks letter and membership 
schedule that was sent to Mrs A on 12 March 2020 to confirm her acceptance into the SIPP. 
Section 4 covered the matter of contributions and transfers in. Point 4.7 stated that, we 
may accept contributions via an online debit card and direct debit facility. Funds will only be 
credited to your SIPP fund when the funds have been received into your SIPP bank account. 
This usually takes between 1 and 2 working days after your online payment has been 
authorised by our authorisation agent and the bank from which the money is coming. 
So I dont think that made any guarantees that the money would be available to invest the 
following day, but it set out Curtis Banks process of crediting the SIPP a day or two after the 
money had been authorised. No specific time was given as to how long it would take for 
the money to be authorised, but point 8.1 and 8.2 gave further explanation of the process 
itself. 
Point 8.1 stated that the trustees operate a pooled banking account in respect of the SIPP 
membership, using accounts with banks or building societies which are regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. the trustees are the sole authorised signatory to such 
accounts.8.2 says that, all monies going into your SIPP fund are held in sterling in a pooled account 
and will be clearly designated as relating to your arrangements. This account will be your 
SIPP bank account through which all contributions, transfers, investments and benefit 
payments must be channelled for audit purposes.
So the reason the money wasnt credited to Mrs As SIPP account straight away was that all 
monies received by Curtis Banks were paid into a pooled account, from which the individual 
credits were checked, authorised and allocated.
The KFD replayed this information within its how can I make a contribution? section, which 
stated that contributions can be made via online debit card, direct debit or cheque. Funds 
will only be credited to your SIPP when the funds have been received into your SIPP bank 
account. This usually takes between 1 and 2 working days after your online payment has 
been authorised by our authorisation agent and the bank from which money is coming.
And the section around How will the funds be invested? noted that, payments into the 
SIPP are initially paid into a pooled client bank account in the name of the . esipp. They 
will then be moved to the share centre for you to invest, normally within a week. 
So I think that, based on the evidence Ive seen, Curtis Banks did make Mrs A aware of its 
process for making contributions to the SIPP and when such payments might be available 
for investment. It also confirmed that the process might take up to a week to complete but 
that there were no guarantees of when money might be available. 
I appreciate that Mrs A expected her contribution to be available for investment the following 
day as it was made through a debit card. But Curtis Banks didnt allow for the money to be 
available instantly. It operated a process of pooling all incoming contributions before going 
on to allocate them to individual SIPP accounts. I have some sympathy for Mrs As position 
as she wasnt able to invest when she wanted to, but although she would have liked Curtis 
Banks processes to be quicker that doesnt mean they arent fair. We wouldnt normally tell 
a business how it should carry out its everyday commercial activities and Curtis Banks is 
free to set its banking and allocation processes how it sees fit.
 
What I would have expected Curtis Banks to do was to have made Mrs A of how 
contributions would be treated  which Im satisfied it did through the raft of literature it 
issued. So I cant reasonably say Curtis Banks did anything wrong here or treated Mrs A 
unfairly, and I couldnt reasonably uphold a complaint on the basis that Curtis Banks 
processes werent in line with Mrs As expectations of how she would have liked them to 
work or how they compared alongside other financial institutions. 
The administration fee that was charged before the transfer completed.
Mrs A has commented on the £15 administration fee that was applied to the account before 
the transfer completed. She said it wasnt fair to deduct that charge as the administration up 
to that point had been poor. 
So Ive looked at the Key Features Illustration Curtis Banks provided, which noted the SIPP 
had an annual fee of £144 and an assumed retained interest charge of 0.9% of the bank 
account. It was also confirmed that a fee schedule was available on the Share Centre 
website. 
Ive looked carefully at that schedule, and the particular charge that was questioned here 
was set out as a monthly administration fee of £12 plus VAT. The fee was taken on the 26th of each month after the SIPP was set up but it wasnt related to the administration that Curtis 
Banks was carrying out around the transfer. It was a monthly fee that became payable after 
the SIPP was established and wasnt related to any particular task, but simply for 
administering the plan.
But even if I am wrong in my assumption there, Curtis Banks has told us that, although it 
administers the SIPP on behalf of the provider, the £12 plus VAT per month platform 
charges are not applied by or received by Curtis Banks. And as Ive seen how the charges 
are set out in the SIPPs fee schedule, it would appear that they are applied and collected by 
the provider who then pays Curtis Banks for the administration of the plan but not using the 
monthly administration charge. Thats a separate arrangement between the two parties. So I 
dont think Curtis Banks needs to do anything about that charge. 
Mrs A was also frustrated about the length of time it took to receive a response from Curtis 
Banks to her complaint. However, as complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity, its 
not something I can consider further. 
Putting things right
I dont think Curtis Banks caused a delay in processing Mrs As SIPP contributions from 
October and December 2020  so I dont think it needs to compensate her for any 
investment loss she may have suffered as a result. I think it did what it said it would in its 
literature. I also dont think Curtis Banks was responsible for most of the delay resulting in 
the transfer of Mrs As SIPP taking around six months to complete. But there was period 
when Curtis Banks could have been quicker to move the information it received from the 
ceding SIPP provider internally for processing. I havent seen any evidence to show this 
caused an investment loss, but Curtis Banks has offered £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience that delay may have caused  which I think is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
Curtis Banks Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Curtis Banks Limited should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman