DRN-3822593
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc harassed and discriminated against her in how it 
dealt with her request to withdraw cash from her account.
What happened
In June 2021, Miss T visited a branch of Santander with her passbook in order to withdraw 
£8,000. But before the member of staff processed the withdrawal, they asked Miss T a 
number of questions about why she was withdrawing the cash in this way and what the 
money was for. Miss T says that she told the member of staff that the money was for a 
second hand car. After answering Santanders questions, she says that the member of staff 
would only allow her to withdraw £5,000 and then asked for identification documents. Miss T 
provided these and then the member of staff said the request would have to be passed to 
the banks head office.
But Santander called the police and they spoke to Miss T about the transaction too. The 
police told the branch that they were satisfied that there was nothing untoward about 
Miss Ts request for the money here. Miss T then said that she wanted to transfer the money 
back to the account shed transferred it from. The branch said Miss T should come back with 
a bank statement to show where the money had come from.
Miss T returned the following day with a relevant bank statement. But the branch said that it 
might be too late in the day to do the transfer she wanted. Then Miss T was told her account 
had been blocked and that she would have to return the following day with documentation so 
they could do the transfer.
The next day, Miss T returned to the branch with documents. A cashier asked for details of 
the car, but Miss T didnt provide any details of the car as she now just wanted to transfer 
the money back to where it came from. The branch then informed Miss T that it wouldnt be 
able to transfer her money as Santanders head office was now investigating her account. 
Miss T was told to wait for a call from the relevant department.
Santander wrote to Miss T a few days later asking her to call its specialist team. But Miss T 
didnt want to do that and complained to Santander, saying that it had discriminated against 
her based on her race. Santander responded to her to say that it placed a block on her 
account because of legal and regulatory obligations and said that this wasnt anything to do 
with discrimination. 
Miss T referred her complaint to us, where an investigator looked into this. They said that 
Santander was entitled to ask for more information about the withdrawal in the 
circumstances. But they felt that Santander shouldnt have blocked the account after the 
police spoke to her. They also felt that Santanders service to Miss T fell short in some 
respects, such as when the branch asked Miss T to return on two subsequent days when it 
couldnt process her transactions. For this they said that Santander should pay Miss T £200 
for the trouble and upset caused. But they didnt think Santander had acted in a 
discriminatory way.
Miss T disagreed with this and another investigator looked into her concerns. They said that 
£200 for the impact was fair and couldnt see that Santander had discriminated against 
Miss T either. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very clear how strongly Miss T feels about how Santander has treated her. Ive carefully 
considered everything shes provided us and told us. In doing so, it may help to start by 
saying that this service isnt here to punish or fine businesses such as Santander. Instead, 
our role is to be impartial and look at whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
an individual complaint.
I also note that Miss T says that Santander has discriminated against her given the issues 
shes faced here. Santander has now accepted that it has fallen short in the service its 
provided Miss T. But Miss T thinks that what it has done goes beyond this and feels 
discriminated against. I understand why she feels this way and I dont think Santander fully 
understood the impact certain actions had on Miss T. But I think what its now offered and 
what our investigator has recommended is fair. Ill explain why.
The starting point here is that Santander was acting fairly when it asked for more information 
before immediately allowing the withdrawal of the funds. As our investigator explained, 
Santander has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the interest of 
its customers and to follow good industry practice to keep customers accounts and money 
safe.
In my view, thats what Santander was doing when it asked Miss T for further information 
about the transaction she wished to make here. The withdrawal itself was unusual in the 
context of Miss Ts account activity. It was for a large amount and Miss T hadnt withdrawn 
any money in this way for a number of years. She also explained that the purpose for the 
withdrawal was to purchase a car, which is a transaction that can be made in more secure 
ways than by withdrawing a large amount of cash in one go.
So I can see why Santander asked more questions before immediately agreeing to process 
the withdrawal here. I can also see why, when Miss T didnt give any information about the 
car purchase and then said the money was for a friend  Santander chose to continue to act 
cautiously. Santander placed a block on Miss Ts account and called the police to the branch 
given its concerns. This is in line with the Banking Protocol, which is an initiative providing 
guidance that businesses like Santander should follow in circumstances like these. So while 
I understand that Miss T views this step as unnecessary and disproportionate, I think 
Santander was acting fairly, in line with relevant guidance and best practice in the 
circumstances.
I realise that Miss T thinks that this decision and how Santander handled this was 
discriminatory. Shes said that someone of a different race or class would have been treated 
differently. But, given what Ive said above, Im satisfied that Santanders actions in relation 
to this withdrawal were only motivated by a genuine concern about the nature of the 
transaction rather than anything about Miss T personally. Those concerns were reasonable 
and I think Santander was entitled to act on them. 
When Santander called the police, they spoke to Miss T about the situation here and both 
parties have confirmed that the police werent concerned with what Miss T told them about 
the transaction. So I think it would have helped if, at this point, Santander tried to further help Miss T in the way she wanted, which at this point was to assist with the transfer of the 
money back to another account.
Instead, what then happened is that Santander told Miss T to return the next day and then, 
on two separate occasions when Miss T came to the branch, told her it couldnt help. That 
wasnt helpful. Instead, Santander should have told her what the correct situation was  
which is that her account was blocked and that shed need to speak to the banks specialist 
team in order to remove this before she could use it again.
Santander did that a few days later when it sent her a letter explaining the situation. So while 
I realise that Miss T says she was without the money in her account between June 2021 and 
when she was later able to access it in 2022  I dont think itd be fair to hold Santander 
liable for that. Miss T has said she needed that money for essential expenditure and Ive 
taken account of what shes said around this. But equally, Santander explained what Miss T 
needed to do to get access to her account, but I cant see she tried to do that in the way 
Santander explained for some time. When Miss T did do this in May 2022, the block was 
removed very quickly and she was able to use her account again. So the advice it gave her 
about what she needed to do in June 2021 was correct and had she followed this, she would 
have had access to her account sooner.
Ive then considered what would be fair to resolve this complaint. Im satisfied that Santander 
was entitled to ask more questions around the withdrawal here and that it acted fairly in that 
respect. I do think it missed a few opportunities to try and help Miss T though. It could have 
saved her some inconvenience when she visited the branch after that. But I also have to 
consider that when Miss T received the letter explaining the situation, she didnt take the 
steps needed to access her account. For the inconvenience of those wasted branch trips, 
£200 is fair for the inconvenience caused. So its that Santander needs to pay her now.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Miss T £200 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman