DRN-2783006
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him incorrect information about when hed be 
able to view his monthly statement online. He says this had a significant impact on him as he 
needed the statements urgently. Hed like to be properly compensated for this and for the 
way his complaint was dealt with subsequently.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr S urgently required an up to date bank statement. He thought his 
statements were usually available around the second week in the month so when he couldnt 
see it online on 10 February, he called Lloyds to ask where it was. In this call he was told 
that the statement hadnt been issued for February but the call handler said hed now 
requested one and assured Mr S that hed be able to view this the following day.
But when he checked online the next day, he couldnt see it, so he called Lloyds again. He 
was told hed been given the wrong information the day before and that, although the 
statement had been issued as usual, it took another 1-3 days before it could be viewed 
online. Lloyds said unfortunately there was nothing it could do to speed this up.
Mr S says he needed the statements urgently for an ongoing court case so it was very 
important that he should be able to access it as soon as possible. He says that hed been 
assured hed be able to download the statement on the 11th and the fact he couldnt had 
caused him a lot of difficulty and inconvenience. He feels he was misled by Lloyds in the first 
call.
Mr S is also unhappy with the way Lloyds dealt with his call on the following day. He says he 
was passed around several departments before he was put through to the right person. And 
when he did, he found hed been given the wrong information the day before and that Lloyds 
couldnt do anything to help him obtain the copy statement straight away.
Mr S says Lloyds offered him £200 compensation when he called in on the 11 February. 
Although he didnt have a specific figure in mind, he didnt feel this was enough so he 
declined and asked for the matter to be escalated internally. Mr S says Lloyds then came 
back with a reduced offer of £100. He doesnt feel this is reasonable or reflect the impact on 
him of what had happened.
Lloyds didnt agree it had made a mistake with regard to the statement. Thats because the 
statement was issued as usual but there was a delay of 1-3 days after this before it could be 
seen online. Unfortunately, the first call handler hadnt realised a statement had already 
been issued, so hed ordered another. But even though this was issued the next day, the 
same issue still applied, that is it couldnt be viewed online for another few days. However, 
that was the way its system was set up and not a mistake.
Lloyds agreed Mr S had been given the wrong information in his first call. And it agreed 
thered been some difficulties when Mr S had called the next day. It had initially offered Mr S 
£100 compensation for this which it had then agreed to increase to £200. But when Mr S 
declined, it had been escalated and reviewed internally and having done so, it considered 
£100 was reasonable so had adjusted its offer accordingly.
Our investigator felt Lloyds had dealt with the matter reasonably. He said Mr Ss statement 
had been issued at the usual time so he couldnt say Lloyds had made a mistake, either with 
the date it was produced or when it was available to be seen. As a result, he was looking at 
the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr S as a result of the misinformation hed been 
given. Hed seen Mr S had made it clear that he needed the statement urgently, and why, so 
he could understand how disappointed he was to find this wasnt correct. Having said that, 
the statement had been available to view at the usual time and that wouldnt have changed 
regardless of what Mr S was told. 
Our investigator understood that Mr S was disappointed to find Lloyds had reduced its offer 
back to £100 but the offer on the day had been a gesture of goodwill so it couldnt be 
enforced. The question was whether the £100 it had now offered was reasonable and, after 
considering what had happened, our investigator felt that it was. For that reason, he wouldnt 
be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He felt it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to go back on its offer of £200 and that, in any event, £100 didnt 
reflect the impact this incident had had on him. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see that Lloyds has now agreed to increase its offer to the 3200 it 
originally offered. On that basis I consider that it has dealt with the complaint fairly so I wont 
be asking it to do anything more.
Its not disputed that Lloyds gave Mr S the wrong information when he called on the 10th.  
The call handler told him that Februarys statement hadnt been issued, ordered another one 
and confirmed it would definitely be available for Mr S to see, download and print off the 
following day. However, this wasnt correct because there was a delay of 1-3 days after 
issue before a statement could be viewed online.
Mr S has explained very clearly why he needed this statement so urgently and what the 
delay would mean to him. Ive every sympathy for this position he found himself in but Mr Ss 
statement was issued, and was visible online, at the usual time and this didnt change 
regardless of what Mr S was told. And, as Lloyds explained, it couldnt speed this up even 
though it appreciated why Mr S needed them so urgently.
But thats not to say Lloyds actions had no impact on Mr S. Its clear Mr S was anxious to 
access his statement as soon as possible because he needed to be submitted to the court 
by a set date. And for that reason, he was particularly relieved to be told it would be 
available the next day and, equally, he was extremely disappointed and upset to find out the 
day after that that this wasnt correct. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for Lloyds 
to compensate Mr S for giving him the wrong information.
Ive also listened to Mr Ss call the next day. Ive heard that Mr S was passed to several 
departments before he was able to speak to the correct department. I can understand how 
frustrating that was but once he did get through to correct department, I consider his call was 
dealt with appropriately.Putting things right
In Mr Ss case there was no actual financial loss so what Im looking at is the upset and 
inconvenience caused by Lloyds mistake. Theres no precise way of calculating such 
awards but Ive taken into account the impact of what happened and the time that it lasted. 
Having done so I can see that, although Lloyds did make a mistake in its call on 10 
February, it explained the correct position to Mr S the next day. And while Mr S was 
understandably frustrated to find he wouldnt be able to download his statement as soon as 
hed expected, that was the way the system was set up and Lloyds mistake had no impact 
on this. 
And I cant agree that Lloyd wasnt able to review its offer once Mr S had declined it on the 
day. However, in Mr Ss case I can see that he had a particular reason for wanting the 
statements so quickly and for that reason, the impact of Lloyds mistake on Mr S was greater 
than it might otherwise have been. Ive raised this with Lloyds and Lloyds has now offered to 
reinstate its original offer of £200. I think that fair and in line with what Id have awarded for 
the impact of its mistake.  If Mr S wishes to accept this then Id ask him to contact Lloyds 
direct.
In the circumstances I consider that Lloyds has dealt with this complaint fairly and, for that 
reason, I wont be asking it to pay anything more than the £200 it has already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint and consider that the offer of £200 
compensation from Lloyds Bank PLC is reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman