The complaint
Ms X is unhappy with the compensation National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) has 
offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out at alongside a credit card.
What happened
Ms X applied for a credit card in December 1988 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. 
Ms X has now complained the PPI was mis-sold. NatWest has agreed to uphold the 
complaint and offered to pay compensation of £689.34.
Ms X isn't happy with the compensation offered and thinks that NatWest hasnt calculated for 
the full period the card account was open. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
Ms X has provided a number of additional statements for her account for varying times and 
NatWest has used these and carried out re-calculations of the compensation on several 
occasions. 
Our adjudicator said what NatWest had now offered was fair. Ms X remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold Ms Xs complaint and pay her compensation for the PPI that 
was mis-sold. So, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at 
whether what has been offered in compensation is fair. 
In the course of this complaint a number of points have arisen. Ms X felt that she had more 
than one credit card and PPI on more than one account. She thought the offer of 
compensation made was only for one of these accounts, as only one card number was 
stated. 
I have looked at the facts around this and all the statements Ms X has submitted for her 
credit card. There are three card numbers used throughout the history of the statements. 
However, I cannot find at any time there are statements for the same date for two different 
card numbers, so indicating two accounts. 
Every few years credit cards expire and are replaced, and I think based on all the evidence I 
have seen, that all the card numbers on the statements relate to just one credit card 
account. And that only one PPI policy covered the one credit card account. 
DRN-1812509NatWests records indicate there was only one PPI policy and its calculations have always 
been done on the basis of the one account, which would include all cards associated with 
that account and for the full period the PPI was active on the account. The fact that NatWest 
only referred to one card number in its offer to Ms X, doesnt mean it did not take into 
account the full period the PPI was on the account in making its calculation and offer.
Turning to what NatWest has calculated for the compensation it has offered, when looking at 
calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out what was paid for 
the PPI. This includes the premiums paid, and any interest and costs caused on the account 
by the premiums being added to the account. Also, the business has to pay some 
compensatory interest for any times the consumer was out of pocket for the PPI cost. 
In this case NatWest didnt have full records for Ms Xs account going back to 1988, which 
isnt surprising as this was over 30 years ago. So it used what data it did have, which started 
in 2001, and using this data estimated what Ms X may have paid going back to December 
1988, using an automated calculation process. This resulted in an original offer to Ms X of 
£668.46. 
Whenever estimates are made, it cannot be certain if the consumer paid more or less than 
the estimated premiums used. But the approach taken by most businesses has in the past 
shown to provide fair results. 
Ms X has during the course of this complaint provided some more historical statements for 
her account. When these have been provided, NatWest had used the information from the 
statements to recalculate the compensation due. The use of the more accurate data from the 
statements, input manually into the calculation, resulted in lower amounts of compensation, 
firstly £596.84, then later £580.64 when more statement data was used. But NatWest said it 
would honour its original calculation, using its automatic calculation and estimated amounts.
After further enquiries were made, NatWest identified a small error that had occurred when 
the data from one statement was not entered correctly into the manual calculation. But 
correcting this in the manual calculation, using all the provided statement data pre 2001, still 
reduced the compensation to less than the offer of £668.46. 
However, as NatWest had said it would honour the higher automated calculation, it updated 
this original offer, based on the estimates rather than the actual full statement data, by this 
one statement amount. This resulted in a slightly higher compensation figure of £689.34. So, 
NatWest has said it would now offer this amount as the compensation to Ms X.
In summary, I think the £689.34 that NatWest has now offered to pay in compensation is 
very fair. It has honoured its original higher offer, based on estimated amounts and just input 
the one statement data for PPI on which an error was made in the manual calculator, which 
results in a higher amount of compensation. 
So Ms X benefits and receives the highest amount that can be been calculated - which is by 
using the estimated figures pre 2001, plus just the amendment for the one statement amount 
on which there had been an input  error and that then results in a higher amount of 
compensation. This means Ms X is getting back fair compensation for the mis-sold PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that National Westminster Bank PLC has now offered to Ms X to settle her complaint is 
fair. So I am not upholding the complaint that more compensation is due.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28July2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman