DRN-4087808
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank did not follow their 
processes which resulted in him being out of pocket.
What happened
Mr B phoned Tesco as he couldnt recall whether he had made a purchase for an airline 
ticket. He says he went through their security process, but the call handler informed him that 
she couldnt provide him with the information he requested as she had to send him a security 
code in the post to activate his application (app). As Mr B says he was at work, he couldnt 
access his hard copy statements, so he says he panicked and called up the ticket agent and 
purchased another flight ticket at a cost of £733. Mr B says when he got home he saw that 
he did originally purchase an airline ticket, so he tried to cancel one of the tickets, but the 
merchant would only refund him £288. He says he phoned Tesco, but the call handler he 
spoke to this time was able to give him all of his information, unlike the original call handler. 
Mr B made a complaint to Tesco, who upheld his complaint. They said as Mr B had 
answered additional security questions and they had his mobile number on file, they 
shouldve sent him a telephone security number via a text message instead of by post. They 
apologised for the call handler not following the correct process and they paid £75 
compensation into his account. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said she couldnt hold Tesco liable for 
the difference between the cost of the airline ticket and the refund as Mr B chose to 
purchase a new ticket without confirming what had happened to the previous ticket. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr B that Tesco let him down with how they handled his original call when he 
wanted to check if he had already ordered an airline ticket, as things could have been 
handled differently. So if Mr B did need a security number when he originally rang, Tesco 
have already said that the call handler could have sent the security number to his mobile 
phone, and as such the original call handler didnt follow their process in this scenario.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Ive noted the strong 
feelings that Mr B has that he should be refunded the difference between the cost of the 
ticket and the refund of the ticket, as if he was sent the security number to his phone, he 
could have given the call handler the information she needed and then she would be able to 
check his transaction history  so he wouldnt have panicked and bought another ticket, and 
he wouldnt be now out of pocket.
But in considering what compensation is fair here, I need to see what actions Mr B also took 
to try and mitigate the need to buy a new airline ticket. I understand that he was at work and 
didnt have access to his hard copy statements and thats why he phoned Tesco to begin 
with. And I know Mr B was panicked by not knowing this information after he spoke to Tesco, 
but Im not persuaded it was proportionate to buy a new airline ticket in response to what 
happened on this call. I say this as Mr B could have simply called the ticket provider and 
checked with them before he bought a new ticket, or he could have waited until he finished 
work to look at his statements  which he did on the same evening. 
So as Mr B did not take either of these actions which would have quickly resolved the issue, 
then I cant hold Tesco responsible for the difference in the airline ticket cost and the refund. 
They would have no control over how much this would cost and the refund value. Thats not 
to say I dont have sympathy with Mr B over what happened  I do, and I appreciate the 
importance of this ticket for him given the situation at the time and who it was for. But for the 
reasons Ive already mentioned, it would not be proportionate for me to ask Tesco to pay the 
difference here. As the call handler did not follow Tescos process originally though, Tesco 
were right to recognise that they let Mr B down. The £75 they credited to his account is in 
line with what our service would have awarded Mr B if they did not uphold his complaint as 
this recognises Mr B was distressed and inconvenienced by what happened here. As Tesco 
have already paid this money to Mr B, it follows that I dont require them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman