DRN-3157912
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough 
to protect them when they were the victim of a scam. They lost £16,350 from their account. 
Mr and Mrs D also say Clydesdale wont accept that a security breach allowed the fraud to 
happen. 
Mrs D has corresponded with this service throughout the complaint, so for ease Ill refer to 
her throughout my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 29 June 2020 Mrs D was tricked by a fraudster into transferring £16,350 from her bank 
account. This was in two payments of £8,500 and £7,850. During this process, Mrs D visited 
her local branch and used her banking app. The second payment triggered Clydesdale to 
contact Mrs D to check the validity of the payment. Both payments were processed. 
Upon becoming suspicious, Mrs D contacted Clydesdales fraud team on the same day. It 
said it didnt accept liability for the loss but had contacted the receiving banks to try and 
recover the money on Mrs Ds behalf. 
Mrs D complained to Clydesdale. She made a number of points about how the scam was 
able to take place, and whether Clydesdale had done enough to stop this happening. She 
wanted all her money returned to her. 
Clydesdale considered Mrs Ds complaint. While it was sympathetic that shed been the 
victim of a scam, it didnt consider it was responsible for her loss. Clydesdale confirmed 
Mrs D had authorised the payments without verifying the authenticity of the caller, and so it 
said it was unable to accept liability. Clydesdale said it couldnt determine how the fraudsters 
had obtained information about Mrs Ds account and said there was no evidence bank staff 
had been involved. It also said the second payment had triggered a security check by way of 
a phone call, during which Mrs D confirmed the payment was genuine and didnt raise any 
concerns.  
Clydesdale said the payments had gone to two separate banks and that both had been 
contacted to see if the funds could be recovered. It was only able to recover £2.38 of the 
£7,850 payment. And agreed to refund the £8,500 to Mrs D as a goodwill gesture. 
Mrs D remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He found Clydesdale had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said given the fraudster had convinced her that bank staff were 
under investigation, she was never going to divulge her concerns when asked to verify the 
transaction. Mrs D said she was convinced by the fraudster that no money would leave her 
account. And she referred to previous cases seen by our service when weve used situations 
such as this to determine if the payment was in fact authorised and whether a customer has 
behaved with gross negligence. 
Mrs D said her behaviour when in the branch acting on the fraudsters instructions shouldve 
aroused suspicion amongst bank staff, particularly as she was wanting to transfer a large 
amount of money to a new payee. And she was concerned how the fraudster had known 
she had recently deposited a large amount of money in her account and had been able to 
access so much of her personal data. Mrs D was also concerned Clydesdale hadnt done 
enough to stop this kind of fraud happening again.
Mrs D was also unhappy with the customer service she received from Clydesdale after the 
fraud was detected. 
As we have been unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mrs D was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
Mrs D has been the victim of a scam and has lost a considerable sum of money as a result. I 
can understand why shed want to do all she can to recover the money she lost, particularly 
as this was part of a life assurance policy that had recently matured. But I need to decide 
whether Clydesdale can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mrs Ds loss. Overall, 
Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to 
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment 
Services Regulations. These regulations explain that a payment can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. This is important because, generally speaking, account holders 
will be liable for payments theyve authorised, and banks will be liable for unauthorised 
payments. Ive taken this into account when considering whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The law also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing the payment instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate the customers funds. 
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the 
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mrs D when she made the payments totalling £16,350, and whether it shouldve done more than it did before processing the payments. I also need to decide if 
Clydesdale ought to have done more than it has already done to recover the funds after 
Mrs D reported the scam. 
Ive looked first at whether Mrs D authorised the payments  that is did she consent to the 
payments by completing the necessary steps to make the payments herself, or did she give 
authority for someone to do so on her behalf. I fully appreciate that Mrs D was acting on the 
specific instructions of the fraudster, both in visiting her local branch and in making the 
payments via her banking app. And I also dont doubt Mrs Ds testimony that she was 
convinced by the fraudster that no money was going to leave her account. 
But Mrs D did follow the necessary process via her banking app for the payments to be 
made  and so she consented to those payments, regardless of whether she thought the 
money would leave her account or not. And she was aware that the first payment of £8,500 
left her account as shes told us she saw her balance reduce on the banking app. So, Im 
satisfied Mrs D did authorise the payments, albeit on the instructions of a very convincing 
fraudster. And so, Ive not needed to consider if Mrs D failed with gross negligence in 
divulging information that enabled the fraudster to send the payments, as that isnt relevant 
here.
As the payments were authorised, Clydesdale isnt liable for the transactions. But I now need 
to consider if it couldve done more before processing the payments. Mrs D visited her local 
branch to make the first payment. But shes told us that bank staff suggested she make the 
payment from her banking app, given there was a charge to make the payment in branch 
and because it didnt have access to her payee list.  Mrs D has said bank staff shouldve 
noticed she was acting out of character when she was in the branch and questioned her 
about the transaction. 
I can understand where Mrs D is coming from here. But given she didnt get to the point of 
actually making the payment in the bank  rather she was advised on how best to make the 
payment via the app, I dont think, on balance, its likely her interaction with bank staff 
wouldve triggered any concern. And I need to also bear in mind that given Mrs Ds 
assurance when asked by the bank about the validity of the second payment, and how shed 
been convinced by the fraudster not to trust the bank staff  I think its unlikely any 
questioning during her visit to the branch wouldve made a difference to the outcome. 
The second payment did trigger Clydesdale to contact Mrs D. Ive listened to the call and 
taken account of what shes told us. I appreciate the points Mrs D has made about her 
feeling uneasy about what she was being asked to do, and how shed been told not to trust 
bank staff and was reassured no money would be leaving her account  which all influenced 
her response to the banks questions. But Mrs D didnt relay those concerns to the bank 
when she spoke to them about the second payment. And even if more questions had been 
asked during the phone call, the fraudster was so convincing that I think its likely Mrs D 
wouldve maintained her story. So, on balance, I dont think Clydesdale couldve done more 
before processing the second payment  and even if it had, I dont think it wouldve made a 
difference. 
When Mrs D notified Clydesdale shed been the victim of a scam it contacted the receiving 
banks promptly to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, one of the receiving banks 
confirmed that only £2.38 of the £7,850 remained in the account, so that was all that could 
be returned to Mrs D. The bank that received the £8,500 didnt confirm whether funds 
remained, but Clydesdale agreed to refund the money to Mrs D as a goodwill gesture. Im 
satisfied Clydesdale made reasonable efforts to recover the funds Mrs D had lost through 
the scam, and Im pleased that it made the decision to return the £8,500 to her. So, I dont 
think it needed to do anything else. So, overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Clydesdale responsible for 
Mrs Ds loss in this particular case.
I understand Mrs D has raised concerns about how the scam could happen and whether 
Clydesdale should have better procedures in place to prevent such frauds. I fully understand 
Mrs Ds concerns. And I have considered whether Clydesdale couldve prevented the scam 
in her case specifically, rather than more widely as our powers are limited to the facts of the 
specific case at hand.
Finally, Mrs D is concerned about the level of customer service she received from 
Clydesdale after the fraud took place. I can understand her points, and from looking through 
the correspondence exchanged between both parties, I think there were occasions when 
things couldve been handled better. But I believe Clydesdale has addressed Mrs Ds points 
of complaint as best it can and apologised for its shortcomings in respect of the refunded 
£8,500 payment. While I fully appreciate this added to the distress Mrs D was already 
understandably feeling having been a victim of fraud, taking everything into account, I dont 
think Clydesdale needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman