DRN-4336140
The complaint
Mr C complains West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly settled a claim by a third-party against his 
motor insurance policy. 
References to West Bay include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with West Bay. In April 2022 West Bay was contacted by 
a third-party insurer about a claim against Mr C. Mr C says he wasnt in the alleged incident 
and complains it was wrong for West Bay to settle the claim in favour of the third-party.
West Bay says it had no choice but to settle the claim. It says the matter proceeded to court 
and without evidence from Mr C  which it had asked him for several times but not received 
 there was no reasonable prospect of successfully defending the claim. 
Mr Cs policy says [West Bay] shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence or 
settlement of any claim or prosecute any claim in the name of any person covered by this 
insurance. So, Im satisfied Mr Cs contract with West Bay allowed it to settle a claim. What I 
must decide is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in doing so here.
I can see West Bay wrote to Mr C in April 2022 and November 2022 saying the following:
Given that you have informed us that you were not involved in the incident we require 
the following information in order to continue with the defence of your claim:
A written and signed statement from yourself stating:
oYour whereabouts on the date of the incident.
oWhere your vehicle was located on the date in question.
oWhere your keys and any spare keys were being kept on the date in 
question.
Copies of any documentation or witness statements that verify your location.
Current photos of your vehicle showing there is no damage.
We appreciate that some of this information may already have been provided verbally; 
however, it is crucial that we receive this information in a written and signed format.
If we do not hear from you within the next 7 days, we shall proceed to settle the claim on 
the best possible terms.
Mr C has suggested he didnt receive any letters from West Bay, but Im not persuaded 
thats the case. The letters were correctly addressed and its unusual for post to go missing. 
In any case, given Mr C called West Bay to discuss matters shortly after each letter, and at 
other times, Im satisfied he was sufficiently aware of the need to act, and that something 
more than verbal testimony was required.
While Mr C told West Bay he wasnt involved in the alleged incident, I havent seen anything 
to persuade me he provided any written submissions which West Bay could use in court. 
Ultimately, when the matter progressed through there courts, West Bay had to decide 
whether to attempt a defence or settle. It decided to settle, in line with legal advice it 
received. I find this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im aware Mr C has since provided some evidence to the Investigator, in the form of 
photographs on social media. He has also indicated he was with others on the day of the 
alleged incident and could obtain witness statements. This, however, is all too late because 
the claim has already been settled. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman