DRN-2004512
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform (TMP) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month that I summarise below.
Mr D was given 27 loans by TMP between July 2017 and July 2019. The loans were due 
to be repaid in monthly instalments over periods of between one and three months. Mr D 
has successfully repaid most of his loans but a balance remained outstanding on his final 
loan when he made his complaint. A summary of some Mr D's borrowing from TMP is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount
1 10/07/2017 27/07/2017 £ 250
2 31/07/2017 22/09/2017 £ 500
3 26/09/2017 25/10/2017 £ 500
4 30/10/2017 01/11/2017 £ 500
5 09/11/2017 24/11/2017 £ 250
6 28/11/2017 22/12/2017 £ 750
7 02/01/2018 03/01/2018 £ 500
8 08/01/2018 11/02/2018 £ 250
9 19/03/2018 23/03/2018 £ 250
10 26/03/2018 25/04/2018 £ 500
: : : :
27 01/07/2019 - £ 500
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, and 
in particular I said that the checks TMP needed to do would need to take into account things 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I thought that the checks TMP did before agreeing the first three loans were proportionate. 
So I didn't think it had been wrong for TMP to agree to give these loans to Mr D.
I thought that TMP needed to do more checks before agreeing the fourth loan. I said by then 
it would have been proportionate to supplement the information it had gathered by asking 
Mr D about any other short term loans he had outstanding at that time. But I said that had it 
done so, I didnt think it would have concluded that it shouldnt give this loan to Mr D. I didn't 
think it had been wrong for TMP to agree to give this loan to Mr D either.
I thought that by the time Mr D asked for his fifth loan TMP should have taken steps to 
independently check the true state of Mr D's finances rather than relying on information 
he was providing. From better checks it would have been clear that Mr D was spending 
a significant amount each month on what appear to be gambling transactions. So I didnt 
think it would be reasonable for a lender to conclude that any borrowing would be likely 
to be repaid in a sustainable manner  that is from Mr Ds normal income or savings. 
And since the spending on gambling continued through the rest of Mr Ds borrowing 
relationship with TMP I didnt think TMP should have lent to Mr D from loan 5 onwards.
And looking at the overall pattern of TMPs lending history with Mr D I thought by loan 7 
the lender should have reached the point where it would reasonably have also 
concluded that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so TMP 
should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans for that reason too.
Mr D has said that he accepts my provisional decision. TMP has provided us with some 
extensive comments. Although I am only summarising here what TMP has said, I have 
considered its entire response carefully before writing this decision.
TMP considers that Mr Ds financial circumstances improved over the time he was 
borrowing, and that he used the loan product in a flexible and prudent manner. It says there 
is no reason why he shouldnt be allowed to reuse the loan product any number of times and 
that Mr D repaid all of his loans early without any issues.
TMP says that it is common for lenders to increase a credit limit to borrowers after they 
demonstrate their repayment ability. So Mr D increasing his loan size shouldnt be seen as 
any indicator of problems. And it says that it monitored Mrs Ds financial circumstances over 
the lifetime of his loans.
TMP has detailed the checks it did before lending to Mr D. It checked his credit file, 
performed an affordability check, a full credit assessment, and it verified his income. It says 
that there is no regulatory requirement for it to consider Mr Ds bank statements so any 
findings I make based on those are irrelevant. It says that its checks were extensive, 
reasonable and proportionate.
TMP says that it should be seen as a positive behaviour should a consumer repay a loan 
before it is due. It doesnt allow top ups, or rollovers. And there is always a break of at least 
a few days between loans. It says that the average length of each loan Mr D took was 
consistently around 20 days. It acknowledges that 27 loans is a large number but points out 
these loans were taken over a period of 2 years. It says all businesses rely on repeat 
customer behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the additional comments made by TMP, I have reached the 
same conclusion, and for the same reasons, as I did in my provisional decision. But I would 
like to comment further on the matters raised by TMP.
The regulations say that assessments need to be proportionate to the circumstances of the 
lending and the consumer. It may be reasonable early on to rely on what the consumer has 
said or to rely on assumptions about their circumstances but it might not be reasonable to do so in all circumstances. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think by the time of 
loan 5, it would be proportionate to get an independent view of Mr Ds finances.
I used copies of Mr Ds bank statements as a relatively quick and easy method of 
establishing his true financial position at the time of the loans. I have not mandated that was 
the method TMP should have used  simply that it was unreasonable at that stage of its 
relationship to base its assessment, even in part, on the information from Mr D. And since 
I think proportionate checks should have given TMP a full understanding of how Mr D was 
spending his money  and that the real reason he was borrowing so heavily and frequently 
was to fund a gambling problem  I dont think it should have agreed to lend to him from that 
point.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) have both been 
very clear that lenders need to consider the potential harm caused by relending and that not 
doing so would be irresponsible.
The purpose of short term loans was set out in the OFT guidance (Section 6.25 referenced 
by the FCA CONC regulations in Section 6.7). They are a short term solution to temporary 
cash flow problems. The FCA defined what is meant by this short term solution (credit due 
to be repaid or substantially repaid within 12 months of advancement) but it doesnt define 
what is meant by a temporary cash flow problem. I think it is reasonable to consider that this 
could mean different things for different consumers depending on their circumstances. But in 
this case, I think by the time Mr D asked for loan 7 he was not likely to have been borrowing 
to solve a short term problem but rather to meet an ongoing need. 
I agree with TMP that in some circumstances it might show good financial management to 
repay high cost loans early and so save some interest costs. But I dont think that is the case 
when a consumer regularly and repeatedly borrows similar or increased amounts very 
shortly afterwards. Instead of good financial management I think that this would indicate a 
need to refinance borrowing, and that a consumer was most likely facing financial problems. 
So I don't think TMP should have agreed to give Mr D loans 5 to 27. TMP needs to pay 
Mr D some compensation.
Putting things right
I don't think TMP should have agreed to lend to Mr D after, and including, the loan that 
he took on 9 November 2017. So TMP should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr D paid on loans 5 to 26, and loan 27 if it has 
now been fully repaid.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
if loan 27 hasnt yet been fully repaid remove any interest and charges still 
outstanding on the loan and treat all the payments Mr D made towards this loan as 
payments towards the capital
A. if reworking Mr Ds loan account as Ive directed results in Mr D effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then TMP should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
B. If reworking Mr Ds loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then TMP can use the total refund for loans 5 to 26 (after the deduction of tax) to offset 
this.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to loans 5 
and 6
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 to 26, and about loan 27 when 
it has been fully repaid, should be removed from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TMP to take off tax from this interest. TMP must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Gracombex Ltd to put things 
right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman