DRN-3961042
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to take into account 
their death in service benefits when recommending life policies. 
What happened
The facts of this matter are not in dispute and are known to both parties. In summary in 2009 
Mr B and Mrs B sought advice relating to the protection of their mortgage in the event that 
either of them should die or suffer from a critical illness during the term of the loan. They 
argue that the adviser should have considered their death in service benefits when 
recommending suitable mortgage protection policies. They believe that had he done so the 
policies would have cost less. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B and Mrs B appealed, 
through their representative. For simplicity I will just refer to Mr B and Mrs B. 
They felt that they were effectively over sold insurance, due to the fact that their existing 
benefits were ignored at the time advice was given. They appreciate that they would have 
potentially lost benefits had they changed employment and not be offered a similar death in 
service package by a new employer. But are aware they could have purchased stand alone 
cover should the benefits they enjoyed be lost.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our statutory 
function is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality and our rules allow me 
to take this approach. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Ive reviewed the complete file. My decision concerns only the complaint outlined above  
the mis-sale matter having been resolved separately. 
I recognise that Mr B and Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I dont find that there was any error on the part of the adviser in not taking their death 
in service benefits into account. This is because such benefits are not guaranteed 
and do not stay with an employee if they change employment. I have not disregarded 
the fact that Mr B and Mrs B have remained with the same employers that they were 
with at the time the policies were sold, but this doesnt lead me to conclude that the 
benefit should have formed part of the advisers recommendation at the time the 
policies were sold.
Mr B and Mrs B were offered waiver of premium benefit but declined to take it on the 
basis that they had good sick pay from their employment. Im not persuaded that the 
adviser was wrong to offer this cover, or that there is any disconnect between 
offering waiver cover and the fact death in service benefit was not considered when 
recommending life cover.
Barclays adviser was obliged to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of his 
advice for Mr B and Mrs B. For the reason given above I dont find that the fact the 
death in service benefit wasnt taken into account means that the recommendation 
made was unsuitable. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman