DRN-4007114
The complaint
Mr and Ms S complain about delays when they took advice from an appointed representative 
of Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd (trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network) in relation 
to a mortgage application. Interest rates increased during the delay and they ask for 
compensation for their additional interest costs. 
What happened
Mr and Ms S took mortgage advice from a broker. The broker joined PRIMIS in November 
2021, having previously recommended a mortgage to Mr and Ms S while working with 
another business. 
The broker asked Mr and Ms S to sign a declaration so that he could transfer the mortgage 
product to PRIMIS. However, the application lapsed, and the broker didnt submit a new 
application on their behalf until February 2022. By that time, the mortgage product hed 
recommended had been withdrawn. Mr and Ms S had to take out a product with a higher 
interest rate.
PRIMIS refunded the brokers fee. Mr and Ms S said this isnt enough. They ask for 
compensation for the additional cost of the higher interest rate product they took out. 
Our investigator said PRIMIS should pay compensation for Mr and Ms S missing out on the 
lower interest rate product. She said there was enough time between the broker joining 
PRIMIS and the mortgage product being withdrawn in early January 2022 for an application 
to have been submitted on behalf of Mr and Ms S.
PRIMIS didnt agree. It said it wasnt responsible for advice given and applications made 
when the broker worked for a different business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms S took mortgage advice from a broker in October 2021. He recommended a 
mortgage with a five-year fixed interest rate product at 1.75%. The broker started an 
application on Mr and Ms Ss behalf on 3 November 2021. The broker says he missed the 
deadline to provide supporting information to the lender and the application lapsed. The 
broker joined PRIMIS in mid-November 2021. 
A new application was submitted on behalf of Mr and Ms S by the broker  then working with 
PRIMIS  in February 2022. However, the lender had withdrawn the 1.75% interest rate 
product and Mr and Ms S had to choose from the products available in early 2022, which 
had higher interest rates. They took out a five-year product with a rate of 2.19%.
PRIMIS says the industry practice when assessing liability is to work from the date of the 
advice. It says it didnt accept responsibility for the advice and applications made by the 
broker when working for another firm, and if the broker continued to service cases from his 
previous employer, this would have been under an arrangement between him and that 
business. 
It wouldnt be fair to hold PRIMIS responsible for advice given by a different business. I dont 
think it would be fair to say that PRIMIS is responsible for the advice given by the broker in 
October 2021 or for any problems with the application made on 3 November 2021. 
But after this, the broker joined PRIMIS. At some point PRIMIS became responsible for the 
advice given to Mr and Ms S by the broker. PRIMIS says this was in February 2022 when it 
has records of advice being given to Mr and Ms S. But I think PRIMIS became responsible 
for the advice and service given to Mr and Ms S from late November 2021.  
On 25 November 2021 the broker emailed Mr and Ms S attaching a document which he 
asked them to sign and scan back so I can transfer your product to [the appointed 
representative of PRIMIS]. The footers on the email referred to PRIMIS. Mr and Ms S 
signed and returned the document the next day. I think theyd have reasonably expected 
PRIMIS to be responsible for the advice and service they received from that point. 
PRIMIS says its not possible for an application to be transferred from one broker business 
to another. It says the business that the broker worked for when he submitted the application 
remained responsible. It says the broker would have had a no poaching clause with the 
previous business. But the evidence here shows the broker was in contact with Mr and Ms S 
about their application after he joined PRIMIS. 
PRIMIS will have a process in place when accepting new customers. As PRIMIS doesnt 
have records relating to Mr and Ms S until February 2022, it seems likely that process wasnt 
followed correctly in November 2021.
I dont think its fair to find that PRIMIS isnt responsible for the advice and service given to 
Mr and Ms S from late November 2021 only because the correct process wasnt followed to 
record them as customers. As I said, having signed a document to transfer the mortgage 
product to PRIMIS, Mr and Ms S would reasonably have expected PRIMIS to be dealing 
with their application, and its clear from their evidence that they thought this was the case. If 
that wasnt possible the broker should have told them that. The brokers evidence says he 
looked into transferring the application but didnt go ahead as he couldnt confirm the 
timescale. Mr and Ms S were told the deadlines were missed due to the broker having 
Covid-19.
I asked PRIMIS if it knew when the first application would have lapsed. PRIMIS said it didnt 
have records of the application made on behalf of Mr and Ms S, but it asked the lender for 
information about its usual timescales. The lender said this is circumstance dependant and it 
would try and contact the broker before cancelling, but this would usually be at about three 
weeks from last contact. As the only contact I have evidence of was the application being 
submitted on 3 November 2021, it seems likely the application would have been cancelled 
by about 24 November 2021. 
Mr and Ms S say the deadline to secure the 1.75% product was 7 January 2022  I assume 
this is the date the product was withdrawn by the lender. PRIMIS doesnt dispute this. I think 
there was enough time between 26 November 2021 and 7 January 2022 for PRIMIS to 
submit an application on behalf of Mr and Ms S. If PRIMISs processes required a new fact 
find, recommendation and suitability letter there was time for this to be carried out. If the 
lender hadnt already cancelled the previous application and needed authority from Mr and 
Ms S to do so, this could have been arranged.The mortgage Mr and Ms S was offered and took out was with the same lender. I havent 
been provided with any information to suggest this lender wouldnt have offered them a 
mortgage if theyd made their application in December 2021 or early January 2022, rather 
than February 2022. 
I think Mr and Ms S missed out on the lower interest rate product due to PRIMISs failure to 
follow the correct process in late November 2021 and to submit a mortgage application 
within a reasonable timescale. I think its fair for PRIMIS to compensate Mr and Ms S for the 
additional interest theyll pay as a result.
Putting things right
PRIMIS should:
calculate the amount of additional interest Mr and Ms S will incur during the first five 
years of their mortgage as a result of taking out a product with a fixed interest rate of 
2.19% instead of a product with a fixed interest rate of 1.75%. 
pay compensation to Mr and Ms S equal to the amount of this additional interest within 
30 days of them accepting my decision (if they do). 
provide a copy of its calculations to Mr and Ms S, if they request a copy.
PRIMIS waived its £200 brokers fee. I think, given its poor service, it was fair to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd 
trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network to take the steps and make the payment set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman