DRN-4314255
The complaint
Mr H complains that the pop-ups on Bank of Scotland plcs website  trading as Halifax -
make it harder for him to manage his account online given that hes visually impaired. He 
also complains about its one-time passcodes, saying that they arent accessible.
What happened
Mr H is visually impaired and relies on online banking and online shopping. He has an 
account with Halifax and an account with another bank too. Hes had the account with the 
other bank for many years. He does his online banking and online shopping from his 
computer at home - he has a large monitor and a screen reader. His screen reader only 
works with text and not images. His account with Halifax is a joint account. Im satisfied, 
however, that his wife  the other account holder  isnt affected by the issues that Mr H is 
complaining about and that she has her own details too.
In August 2022 Mr H received a notification to say that hed opted to go paperless. He 
contacted Halifax to find out what was going on, saying that he didnt want to go paperless. 
Halifax looked into this for him and said that it could see hed changed his preferences, but 
when Mr H explained how he found the pop-ups on Halifaxs website confusing and 
misleading Halifax accepted that he hadnt intended to change his preferences. So, Halifax 
changed them back. Mr H complained saying that Halifaxs website had been designed to 
trick people into going paperless when they didnt want to, and that it put barriers in his way 
that made it harder for him to manage his account given that hes visually impaired.
Halifax looked into Mr Hs complaint and accepted that its website wasnt as accessible as it 
wanted it to be, and that the wording on its website was subtle on purpose and others had 
complained it was misleading and that it would continue to monitor complaints. Mr H was 
unhappy with Halifaxs response and complained to us. He was also unhappy about the fact 
that Halifax hadnt called him to let him know what its response to his complaint was and had 
instead written to him. Halifax has since apologised for this, saying that the person who was 
dealing with his complaint wasnt aware hed requested a call and that its complaints 
handling process doesnt say a call has to be made. Halifax has said that calls are normally 
only made if theres a need to clarify a customers complaint or speak to them further about 
it. Halifax offered £25 in compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. In the course of doing so, Mr H 
complained about Halifaxs system for one-time passcodes. Mr H said Halifax want to send 
him a one-time passcode by text which he couldnt access independently and that hed 
made the same complaint against his other bank and his complaint had been upheld.
Having looked into everything, our investigator said that they didnt think Halifax had been 
unfair or done anything wrong as far as the pop-ups on its website and one-time passcodes 
were concerned. Our investigator said that Halifax had given Mr H several ways to 
authenticate, and that if receiving a text message or a call wasnt appropriate, there was 
always the option of visiting a branch or calling the helpline.
Mr H wasnt happy with our investigators recommendations and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. He said that Halifax only offers one-time passcodes by text, 
which he cannot access independently meaning hes excluded from online banking. He also 
didnt think its reasonable to expect him to visit a branch or call a busy helpline when others 
can complete the same task quickly and easily online. So, Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold this 
complaint and award Mr H £500 in compensation. More importantly, I asked Halifax 
questions about its processes and its website in that provisional decision which I said Id like 
answers to when Halifax replied to my provisional decision.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H is complaining about two issues, namely:
(1) the way Halifaxs website works as far as going paperless is concerned; and
(2) Halifaxs one-time passcodes being inaccessible.
Having spoken to him, Im satisfied that both issues have a theme in common, namely 
that Halifax doesnt understand how difficult the way its designed its systems makes it 
for someone like him with a visual impairment to manage their banking easily and 
independently. I can see why Mr H feels this way. Ill explain why.
Halifaxs website
If Mr H goes onto his online banking pop-up windows will appear offering him the option 
of going paperless. The windows contain a lot of text and right at the bottom there are 
options that Mr H can click to choose whether or not he wants to go paperless. In order 
to get to those options, Mr Hs screen reader has to read through all the preceding text. 
And even then, according to Mr H, the options are worded in a way that is ambiguous at 
best meaning that you can mistakenly opt to go paperless when thats not what you 
intend. Halifax has accepted that others have found the wording misleading and has 
acknowledged that the wording is intentionally subtle and that it is monitoring complaints. 
In other words, there appears to be broad agreement that the wording might cause 
people to opt to go paperless despite not intending to do so. And, more importantly, that 
thats exactly whats happened in this case. I am, therefore, minded to say that Mr H has 
a point here. The fact that hes regularly asked to say whether he wants to go paperless 
 because there isnt an option to say that you dont want to see the message again  
means that Mr H is regularly having to spent time navigating this pop-up. And this, for the 
reasons Ive already mentioned, is time consuming and inconvenient for him given that 
hes visually impaired. In replying to this provisional decision, Id like Halifax to tell me 
what steps, if any, Mr H can take to avoid this happening in the future and whether or not 
it has any plans to make its website easier for him to use.
Halifaxs one-time passcode
In 2020 Mr H complained to us about the other bank he has an account with and the fact 
that it wouldnt send one-time passcodes to his email address. I looked into that 
complaint, and it was one I was able to resolve informally as the bank agreed to start 
sending one-time passcodes by email to customers who couldnt use a mobile phone or didnt have one. Before I resolved the complaint, I spoke to the other bank to make sure 
that the one-time passcode would be sent in a format that was accessible. Or, to put it 
another way, in Mr Hs case in a format that his screen reader would be able to read-out 
aloud. At the time of that complaint Mr H said that it would be really helpful if that bank 
could send out one-time passcodes in the same inclusive format as Halifax. At the time 
Mr H would get a one-time passcode appear on his computer screen and would receive 
an automatic call from Halifax which would prompt him to speak or key the one-time 
passcode on his screen into his landline. In other words, Mr H was very happy with 
Halifaxs approach as it was well thought out and accessible.
Having looked into this in more detail, it appears that Mr H is having trouble when he 
logs into his online banking rather than when he makes an online payment or attempts to 
change any of his account details. Thats because it appears Halifax sends one-time 
passcodes by text to its customers when it wants to authenticate them when theyre 
logging on and these one-time passcodes arent sent in an accessible format. The 
process of logging into an account, in other words, involves a different authentication 
process. To date the information Halifax has given us has been about the alternative 
ways a customer who is wanting to make an online payment or to change their account 
details can authenticate. On that basis, Im minded to accept that Halifax doesnt offer 
the option of a call to a landline to authenticate when a customer wants to log into their 
online banking. In replying to this provisional decision, Id like Halifax to tell me what 
alternatives, if any, there are to authenticating using a one-time passcode when a 
customer logs onto their online banking and whether the one-time passcodes it sends 
out are in a format thats accessible for Mr H.
Mr H has told us that he does his online banking and online shopping from his computer 
at home. Hes also told us that hes not always asked for a one-time passcode when he 
tries to log on, but whether he is or not appears to be random. In replying to this 
provisional decision, Id also like Halifax to tell me if Mr H is able to trust the device hes 
using so that he wont have to authenticate each time he logs on. If so, Id like Halifax to 
tell me in what circumstances hed have to go through the process of trusting the 
device he uses once hes done that once already and what that process involves.
the impact on Mr H
Im satisfied that Mr Hs banking isnt as accessible as it could be and doesnt take into 
account what its like for him as a visually impaired person managing his account. Im 
satisfied that this means Mr Hs banking isnt as straightforward and easy as it is for 
others because he happens to be visually impaired. Im satisfied too that this has caused 
him a significant amount of inconvenience and distress over a prolonged period of time. 
In the circumstances, given that Im minded to uphold this complaint, Im minded to 
require Halifax to pay Mr H £500 in compensation.
Both parties have now replied to my provisional decision  accepting it  and Halifax has 
replied to the questions I asked. Ive spoken to Mr H and explained to him what Halifax said 
in response to my questions. 
Putting things right
Having spoken to Mr H, Im satisfied that both parties should be able to resolve the 
outstanding issues between them. For example, that Halifax should be able to ensure that 
Mr H stops seeing the go paperless pop-up windows as Halifax is already working on a rule 
to exclude people with similar needs. So, before issuing this decision I wrote to Mr H 
summarising the conversation wed had and what I expected Halifax to do next and how 
both can help and Ive sent a copy to Halifax. In addition, Halifax has agreed to pay the £500 in compensation I said I was minded to award in my provisional decision. Thats not 
something Mr H has asked for, but I do think its right to make an award to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused. So, Im going to do that too.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax to pay Mr H £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman