DRN-2771324
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, was 
misrepresented to her.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss S under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that she electronically signed in August 2019. She says that the dealer told her that 
the car had a full service history but, after she had the car serviced in July 2020, she 
became concerned about its service history and then complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance 
that the car had been misrepresented to her.
It said that the car had been serviced in June 2019, had a full service history at the point of 
purchase and was as described so wasnt mis-sold to her. Miss S wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said it wouldnt be 
true to say that the car was supplied with a full service history and she felt that Miss S 
wouldnt have purchased the car without a full service history. She recommended that the 
car should be collected at no cost to Miss S and that Mercedes-Benz Finance should return 
her deposit, with interest.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that theres no justification to reject a car on the basis that the services were carried out 
a couple of months later than recommended. It says that the car has a full service history 
and the fact that the services were behind schedule has absolutely no impact on the 
customer or the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss S says that it was important to her that the car had a full service history and that 
she was told that it had full service history before she agreed for it to be supplied to 
her  and that she wouldnt have entered into the hire purchase agreement if the car 
didnt have a full service history;
the manufacturers recommendation is that the car should be serviced every twelve 
months or after being driven for 15,000 miles, whichever occurs sooner;
the car was first registered in September 2016 so its first service would have been 
due by no later than September 2017  but the car wasnt serviced until January 
2018, when its mileage was 13,549;
the cars second service should have been no later than September 2018 (based on 
a first service in September 2017) but didnt take place until June 2019  a year and 
five months after the last service and its mileage at that was 23,076;
Miss S signed the hire purchase agreement in August 2019 and the car was then 
supplied to her but it would then have been due its third annual service in September 
2019;
its clear that the car hadnt been serviced in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations  but Ive seen no evidence to show that the performance of the 
car has been impacted by that;
I also consider it to be clear that having a full and complete service history was an 
important factor for Miss S  and that its more likely than not that she wouldnt have 
agreed for the car to be supplied to her if shed been made aware of the cars service 
history;
some customers may not be worried by such a delay in the services being completed 
 but its clearly an issue for Miss S  and I consider it to be more likely than not that 
she was induced into entering into the hire purchase agreement by a 
misrepresentation about the cars service history and that she wouldnt have done so 
if the misrepresentation hadnt been made; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to accept Miss Ss rejection of the car and to take the other actions set out 
below.
Putting things right
I find that Mercedes-Benz Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Miss S  both at no cost to her. The hire purchase agreement 
shows that Mr S paid a deposit of £1,750 for the car. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund that deposit to Miss S, with interest.
Miss S has been able to use the car and Im not persuaded that her use and enjoyment of it 
will have been impacted to any material extent by the misrepresentation about the service 
history. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-
Benz Finance to refund to Miss S any of the monthly payments that shed made under the 
agreement. It can keep them as payment for the use that shes had from the car.
Miss S paid for the car to be serviced in July 2020 and, although she paid for a more 
comprehensive service than was required at that time, Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz to reimburse her for the cost of that service 
or to pay her any other compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss S  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Miss S the deposit that she paid for the car.3. Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Miss S a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman