DRN-2447712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the service provided under their HomeCare Two  Boiler, 
controls and central heating cover insured by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas).
 
What happened
British Gas has carried out annual services of Mr and Mrs Cs boiler for a number of years as 
part of their HomeCare cover. During the annual service in June 2019, the British Gas
engineer disconnected Mr and Mrs Cs boiler.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about this. A British Gas manager visited Mr and Mrs Cs 
property a few months after the service. Mr and Mrs C say the manager told them their boiler 
had been disconnected because their flue had corroded. He advised that the flue couldnt be 
repaired and a replacement would not be covered by their policy. He also recommended that 
their boiler  which was around 30 years old  should be replaced because of its age. Mr 
and Mrs C were unhappy that British Gas didnt offer to replace their heating system free of 
charge and complained to British Gas.
British Gas didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. In its final response (FRL), it said the 
service engineer had reason to believe the boiler flue may have corroded and removed the 
liner to investigate. British Gas said its engineer found it was corroded, tried to reseal it away 
from the corrosion, but the liner was too short. The FRL said that Mr and Mrs Cs policy 
wouldnt cover them for a new flue or a new heating system. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy 
with this response and brought their complaint to us because they still felt British Gas should 
have either repaired the flue or installed a new heating system for free.
Mr and Mrs C referred the complaint about British Gas not replacing their heating system to 
us. But our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs policy terms meant British Gas should 
replace their flue and boiler for free. Our investigator felt that corrosion had most likely 
caused the flue to become detached from the boiler and the engineer had tried to re-attach it 
but couldnt because the flue was too short.
But Mr and Mrs C doubted their flue had corroded. They said the British Gas engineer told 
them during the 2019 service that the flue was six inches short of the boiler, but he didnt 
mention corrosion. They said the issue had never been noted during any previous services. 
Mr C said hed suffered constant headaches which he felt were caused by carbon monoxide 
escaping from the flue. Mr and Mrs C provided us with written testimony from their own 
engineer that the connector between the flue liner and back boiler showed no corrosion and 
there was no corrosion on the back boiler itself, which the engineer said hed have expected 
to see.
Mr and Mrs C told us they were concerned the flue hadnt been properly connected to their 
boiler for a number of years and that British Gas repeatedly missed this when carrying out 
annual services of their boiler. And that because of British Gas negligence during previous 
services, they were now facing the winter without heating.
British Gas issued a second FRL in response to Mrs and Mr Cs complaint about it missing 
the short connection of the flue to the boiler. It said the 2019 service identified the flue was 
too short to reach the boiler to give an adequate seal and so it had no choice but to deem 
the unit immediately dangerous and disconnect the boiler. It said this wasnt seen on any 
other visits, otherwise it would have taken the same action. British Gas said it couldnt 
stretch or extend the flue as its one continuous length and it wouldnt replace it under the 
terms of the policy. The FRL said that the flue liner has a shelf life that recommends 
changing it if it has corroded.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this response and asked us to look into their complaint. 
They felt British Gas had told them there was corrosion when they didnt think there was any. 
And they were still concerned that the poor connection of their flue to their boiler had been 
missed in the past by British Gas during annual services.
British Gas told us it was confident the annual service inspections had been carried out 
satisfactorily. It said during the June 2019 service, the engineer wanted to do an extra check 
by peeling back the seal tape connecting the flue to the boiler as he had reason to doubt it 
was connected properly. He intended to re-seal the system, but once hed removed the tape, 
he found the flue was too short and so had to disconnect the boiler.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint about British Gas missing the short 
connection of the flue to the boiler. He thought the engineer had probably removed any rust 
from the join of the flue before trying to reconnect it, which was consistent with both the third 
party not finding any rust and the engineer trying to repair the flue. He felt that British Gas 
hadnt identified a problem with the flue before June 2019 because if it had, it would have 
mentioned it to Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C did not accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Mr and Mrs C felt their own engineer had found the flue to be clean because it had 
never been attached to the boiler. They said any attachment that had dissolved would have 
left debris and there wasnt any. Mr C also said from his own experience corrosion is a long 
process and takes longer than just a few months.
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
Because of the link between both of Mr and Mrs Cs complaints about British Gas, both 
parties agreed that Mr and Mrs Cs first complaint about replacement of their flue and boiler 
should be referred for an ombudsmans decision along with their complaint about the flues 
short connection being missed during services.
British Gas said they dont keep copies of the annual service reports left with customers. But 
Mr and Mrs C provided copies of British Gas annual service reports from 2015, 2016, 2017 
and 2018, but they didnt have a copy of the June 2019 annual service report  the service 
during which their boiler was disconnected.
Mr C told us hed attended hospital about headaches which he suspected were due to 
carbon monoxide poisoning caused by the problems with the flue. But Mr C was unable to 
provide any medical evidence demonstrating his headaches were caused by carbon 
monoxide poisoning.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. My provisional decision 
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part by 
instructing British Gas to award them £250 compensation for their trouble and upset. I 
explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Under the Boiler and Controls heading of Mr and Mrs Cs policy booklet under the Whats 
covered sub-heading it says: 
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it andits less than seven years old Or its 
between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered by 
British Gas.
Its not in dispute that Mrs and Mr Cs boiler is around 30 years old. British Gas said in its 
first FRL that the flue was not repairable, needed replacing and wasnt covered by Mr and 
Mrs Cs policy. And given that the flue was part of a heating system that was around 30 
years old, I dont think it unreasonable that British Gas didnt offer to replace Mr and Mrs Cs 
flue free of charge. So Im satisfied that British Gas does not need to replace Mr and Mrs Cs 
flue or - because of the terms of their policy  Mr and Mrs Cs boiler.
The engineer carrying out the 2016 service wrote on the report free boiler available to you. 
But at each renewal Mr and Mrs C would have been given policy documentation setting out 
the terms and conditions for the coming policy year  including the policy year during which 
their boiler was disconnected. And Im satisfied that, regardless of what they were told in 
2016, the terms and conditions set out in their policy documentation for the year when their 
boiler was disconnected are clear that British Gas do not need to replace Mr and Mrs Cs 
boiler free of charge.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs flue was too short to connect to the boiler properly. I 
asked British Gas why the engineer, on discovering the flue was too short, couldnt have 
resealed the join with tape during the July 2019 service. British Gas explained the tape 
wouldnt have provided an adequate and safe seal. So I dont think British Gas did anything 
wrong by disconnecting Mr and Mrs Cs boiler and I accept it had no choice but to do so.
But Mr and Mrs C feel that British Gas should have identified that their flue was too short 
sooner than it did. The engineers notes say, flue liner cut to short and wont fit on back 
boiler properly. About 6 to short and British Gas has now confirmed that Mr and Mrs Cs flue 
hadnt corroded. So whether or not Mr and Mrs Cs flue corroded is no longer in dispute. So I 
think Mr and Mrs Cs flue had probably been too short since installation. And I think the flue 
being too short could have been identified by British Gas sooner than it was. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy state that:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will include 
testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows that its necessary to 
take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so.If we find a problem that 
needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
So the annual service can involve more than just a visual check and can involve dismantling 
the appliance if necessary.
British Gas told us that inspections are usually only visual and involve a walk-through of the 
system. But it also told us that it always inspects flues on visits to check for corrosion as flue 
liners have a shelf life. It also told us that the average life span of a boiler and flue is about 
15 years. Mr and Mrs Cs boiler was about 30 years old. If British Gas always inspects flues for corrosion and - given the above policy term and the age of Mr and Mrs Cs boiler - I think 
Id have expected British Gas to have removed the tape from the flues join to check for 
corrosion earlier than the 2019 service, which would have identified the short connection 
sooner.
But I dont think on balance British Gas failure to identify the short connection caused any 
personal injury to Mr and Mrs C. Ive reviewed the visit reports provided by Mr and Mrs C. All 
the service reports for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 say that Combustion emissions tested 
and confirmed as correct. Also, Mr C didnt provide evidence of a diagnosis of carbon 
monoxide poisoning.
So because British Gas failed to properly check Mrs and Mrs Cs flues join with their boiler 
during annual services carried out before 2019 and because British Gas first FRL said their 
flue had corroded when it hadnt, I intend to award Mr and Mrs C £250 compensation. But I 
dont intend to award Mr and Mrs C compensation for personal injury or to instruct British 
Gas to replace their flue or boiler free of charge.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither British Gas nor Mr and Mrs C accepted my provisional decision. Ive considered the 
new arguments and information both parties provided, but none have given me reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. Ill explain why. 
British Gas didnt feel any further goodwill gesture was necessary and provided an 
explanation of how flue liners are installed. It said the remark about the liner being six inches 
too short was misleading as only the bottom few inches of the flue would be visible. And that 
if the flue liner was six inches too short, the gap couldnt be covered over by tape and 
wouldve been spotted on the first visit years ago. But I still think - on balance and regardless 
of the size of the gap - Mr and Mrs Cs flue liner was too short to make a sufficient and safe 
join because of what the engineers notes said (flue liner cut to short and wont fit on back
boiler properly. About 6 to short). And I still wouldve expected British Gas to have identified 
the short connection sooner than it did because of the checks it told us its engineers carry 
out during services.
 
British Gas provided more information on the safety tests its engineers carry out during 
services. It said that for a customer to have experienced carbon monoxide poisoning for 
years, the engineer would have either repeatedly not carried out the tests or ignored any test 
failures. In my provisional decision, I said I didnt think on balance that Mr C had suffered 
carbon monoxide poisoning and that the annual service report records showed that safety 
tests had been completed and passed. So British Gas clarification does not provide any 
further information material to this finding.  
British Gas said there wouldnt have been evidence of corrosion because any debris would 
be cleaned out as part of the service. Ive considered this new information despite British 
Gas already confirming to us that Mr and Mrs Cs flue hadnt corroded. And I still think Mrs 
and Mrs Cs flue liner had been too short since installation and hadnt corroded because the 
engineers notes made no mention of corrosion and said the flue liner was too short. Also, 
Mr and Mrs C say that the engineer made no mention to them of any corrosion during his 
visit. 
British Gas said that the Free boiler available to you noted on the 2016 service report 
referred to a government offer available at the time. My provisional decision was that British 
Gas didnt need to replace Mr and Mrs Cs boiler free of charge, so this clarification does not 
change my finding on this.
 Mr and Mrs C said theyd had to wait two months for a new boiler. They said theyd had to 
use electric fires for heat, which was costly and theyd had to borrow a gas cylinder, which 
was inconvenient as Mrs C is aged and Mr C is disabled.  They felt £250 wasnt enough 
compensation.
I sympathise with the inconvenience that Mr and Mrs C say theyve experienced whilst 
waiting for a new boiler. But I cant say this is British Gas fault. British Gas had no choice 
but to disconnect their boiler. And its impossible to know whether Mr and Mrs C would have 
been any less inconvenienced if the short connection had been identified by British Gas 
sooner. Also, Mr and Mrs Cs policy terms are clear that British Gas dont have to replace 
their boiler for free, so it wouldnt be fair for me to require British Gas to pay Mr and Mrs Cs 
heating costs whilst they were waiting for a new boiler.
Mr and Mrs C felt British Gas hadnt adhered to the terms of the contract by not noting the 
short connection sooner. And because they felt they hadnt received an adequate service 
over numerous years, they felt the money theyd paid to British Gas in the past should be 
paid back. 
British Gas provided information showing that it attended Mr and Mrs Cs property on a 
number of occasions - for example, in 2015 because of an issue with the drain and in 2019 
because of an issue with the cold feed.  And despite the short connection being missed, the 
emissions from Mr and Mrs Cs boiler were checked by British Gas as part of their cover in 
2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and found to be safe. So because Mr and Mrs C benefitted from 
their policy in these and other ways, it wouldnt be fair for me to instruct British Gas to refund 
Mr and Mrs Cs payments to them. 
Mr and Mrs C told us that British Gas should keep better records of service visits. This is 
something Mr and Mrs C would need to raise with the relevant regulator as it is beyond the 
remit of this service to tell businesses what records they must keep. 
So despite the arguments presented by Mr and Mrs C and British Gas in their responses, I 
wont be departing from my provisional finding that £250 is fair compensation for British Gas 
missing the short connection and saying in its first FRL their flue had corroded when it 
hadnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. Neither British Gas 
nor Mr and Mrs Cs responses have persuaded me to depart from my provisional findings. 
So, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part and in line with my provisional 
decision by awarding Mr and Mrs C £250 compensation for their trouble and upset. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part. I instruct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs C £250 compensation for their trouble and upset.
British Gas must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs C accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman