DRN-4232330
The complaint
The estate of Miss W complain that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave 
unsuitable advice to Miss W to invest into an estate planning service.
What happened
In September 2016, Miss W received advice from SJP. Miss W was looking to preserve her 
assets for her family to inherit and was keen to reduce her inheritance tax liability. Miss W 
already held investments in an inheritance tax planning scheme. SJP advised Miss W to 
invest into three inheritance tax saving schemes with different providers, with £53,000 in 
each. The estate of Miss W complain about the recommendation to invest into one of 
schemes, namely, Oxford Capital Estate Planning Service (OCEPS), they maintain that Miss 
W was exposed to more risk than she wanted to take, the investment being highly 
concentrated and at the very early stages of operation. The investment did not perform well 
and the estate went on to sustain losses, for which compensation is now sought.
SJP say that the recommendation was suitable, Miss Ws main objective was to reduce  
inheritance tax liability and this was met. The suitability report evidenced discussion around 
alternative options that were discounted. Risk, capacity for loss, term and affordability were 
all discussed along with a review of each provider and the applicable costs. Miss W was 
prepared to invest more into higher risk assets to gain IHT savings and would have been 
aware from the Information Memorandum (IM) that investment would be made into one or 
more holding companies with Oxford Capital acting as discretionary investment manager. A 
robust due diligence model was in place.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought the recommendation to invest in 
OCEPS exposed Miss W to more risk than she wanted to take and it was not made clear 
that she stood to lose her capital investment. This was a high-risk investment and SJP had 
misled Miss W by claiming that for a bit more risk she would secure tax advantages. These 
were not guaranteed and it was relevant that Miss Ws focus had been to protect her assets, 
not place them at risk. Our investigator concluded that the recommendation was unsuitable 
for Miss W. Had Miss W been appraised of the full circumstances, he thought she would 
have invested differently, not within a tax wrapper. He thought it was fair and reasonable for 
SJP to pay the difference between the fair value of the investment (assessed against a 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index benchmark) less the actual value of 
OCEPS (to be assessed as zero if the investment remained illiquid) less tax reliefs.
The estate of Miss W agree that risk exposure was too high, they say the inclusion of 
OCEPS reduced diversification because investment was only made into two small size 
underling companies, was more concentrated and increased risk. As to redress, the estate 
submit that the actual value should be benchmarked against the average performance of the 
other two recommended inheritance tax savings schemes, which provided greater 
diversification. Further, no credit should be given for any tax relief received as it was 
appropriate to recommend an inheritance tax saving scheme.
SJP say that across Miss Ws wider investment portfolio, she invested in five inheritance tax 
services investments in total, one of which was made after the recommendation in 2016. 
They suggest that as the complaint has been raised against one product only, it is likely 
performance driven. They highlight the estates view that investment into a Business 
Property Relief (BPR) products was appropriate. Miss W was committed to IHT mitigation 
and in addition to the inheritance tax services, she also held three modest whole of life 
policies in trust. The high risk of investing in BPR businesses was made clear in the 
declaration for signed by Miss W. SJP maintain that splitting the funds into three schemes in 
2016, diluted the risks and highlight there were 22 holdings within OCEPS.
I note that SJP made an offer on redress, in which they off-set the inheritance tax relief, to 
place the estate in the position as if the investment had been retained in the ISA wrapper. 
This offer was withdrawn following the estates concession that it was suitable to recommend 
investment into BPR products generally and that IHT relief would always have been sought.
In addition to compensation for losses, the estate also seeks a refund of advice fees and 
£15,000 to compensate for the time and effort spent pursuing the complaint.
I wrote  provisional decision in May 2023, in which I provisionally decided not to uphold the 
complaint. I thought it was helpful to highlight at the outset that our service has no regulatory 
or disciplinary role, which means we cant tell a business how to operate and we have no 
punitive powers. I noted the representatives earlier concerns about SJPs due diligence 
process. But explained that it isnt our role to make general findings about a business 
process. We provide an independent, informal dispute resolution service, where decisions 
are made based upon the balance of probabilities. Where a finding is made that a business 
has done something wrong, redress will be calculated on a fair and reasonable basis.
I trusted that those acting on behalf of the estate wouldnt take it as a discourtesy that I had 
not addressed every point raised, I gave reassurance that I had read the information 
provided by both parties and I was aware of the representatives strength of feeling about 
this complaint. The decision focused on the core complaint as to the suitability of the 
recommendation of this particular investment to Miss W. 
On behalf of the estate it was said that the advice to transfer into a BPR IHT-savings 
wrapper was appropriate for Miss W, but that this particular investment was mis-sold as 
being upper medium risk. The estate agreed that the main objective was to reduce IHT 
liability but not at any cost and did not override the objective to protect capital to the 
greatest extent possible within the BPR qualification requirement. This implicit objective 
means avoiding exposure to excess downside risk . . . The narrow issue was whether the 
recommendation to invest £53,000 into this particular scheme (OCEPS) was suitable for 
Miss W, not whether there were other products that were more suitable.
I was mindful that it wasnt fair and reasonable to make an assessment with the benefit of 
hindsight of the funds poor performance. Whilst the representative had been clear that this 
wasnt the basis on which the complaint was advanced, I noted that no complaint had been 
raised about one of the other products that made a smaller loss. The focus of my 
assessment was at the point the recommendation was made, taking into account Miss Ws 
particular circumstances, her objectives, attitude to risk and capacity for loss. 
I considered Miss Ws circumstances. At the time a client review was undertaken in 2016, 
Miss W held over £51,500 on deposit, £270,116 in an ISA and £85,602 in an inheritance tax 
planning service with another provider and had three small whole of life policies. Miss W also 
owned her own home and had no requirement for income.
Objective
It was common ground, supported by the client review, that Miss W was seeking to protect 
her capital for her family to inherit and that her core objective, at this time, was to mitigate IHT. There was also no dispute that the recommendation to invest in OCEPS stood to meet 
the objective of inheritance tax planning. Furthermore, each of the three products 
recommended by SJP targeted capital preservation, albeit this wasnt guaranteed, which 
was again in line with Miss Ws objectives. 
Risk
I considered the information available to the adviser at the time. It was not disputed that Miss 
Ws attitude to risk was assessed as medium and she was said to be invested in a balanced 
portfolio, the OCEPS was recommended on the basis that moving to an upper medium risk 
exposure, Miss W could secure the IHT relief she was seeking. The confidential client review 
said overall medium risk investor but she is prepared to accept up to Upper Medium range 
[my emphasis] if it can provide her with access to investment solution that offer BPR relief 
and more time efficient options than normal trust planning routes. I thought it was fair to 
conclude that Miss W was willing to take some risk to gain inheritance tax relief. 
In my view holding out the OCEPS as an up to Upper medium risk product in the body of the 
suitability letter was misleading, it was inconsistent with the information contained within the 
IM, which said investing is speculative and involved a significant degree of risk. But, in this 
particular complaint it was relevant to look at the wider context. I balanced the information in 
the context of the wider discussions about BPR and Miss Ws knowledge of these products 
at the time. Miss W was comfortable with 59.92% of her investable assets being in BPR, at 
the upper end of the recommendation bracket of 40%- 60%. I couldnt discount Miss Ws 
pattern of investment into BPR products and the declaration signed by her, which said :
A BPR investment represents a much higher risk than investing in later, well established 
listed companies on, say, the FTSE All Share Index
A BPR investment is inherently more illiquid than investing in larger well-established listed 
companies, and as a result you may be unable to sell them at the point you wish to
The high-risk nature of BPR investments means you could get back significantly less than 
was originally invested
On balance, I found that it was more likely than not that Miss W understood broadly that 
BPR products were higher on the risk spectrum. This was clearly a risk she was willing to 
accept given her pattern of investing (repeated in 2018) and the suitability of investing in this 
type of higher risk product was accepted by the representative acting on behalf of the estate. 
As to this particular investment, Miss W would therefore have been aware that it had a 
higher risk exposure and Id seen that the appendix to the suitability letter highlighted that 
the particular investment was regarded as having a significantly higher degree of 
investment risk with a view to reducing your potential inheritance tax liability after two years. 
So even if things had been clearer, I was not persuaded this would have made a material 
difference to the recommendation or to Miss Ws decision-making process.
Diversification
As to diversification, the IM was clear that investment was targeted to the infrastructure 
sector, with current focus on renewal energy and power generation. Investment was to be 
into one or more BPR qualifying companies and this was repeated in the appendix to the 
suitability letter. This meant the entire investment was at risk of same industry changes. But I 
was not persuaded this risk exposure was materially different from the other products recommended at the time, each of which invested in relatively limited industry sectors and 
with each provider undertaking discretionary management of the investments.
The representative was right that as at 2016, OCEPS held three holding companies and 
Miss W invested into two, within which there were a number of subsidiaries. But that wasnt 
inconsistent with the information provided to Miss W, namely that fund would be invested in 
one or more qualifying companies. It was fair to say that a report from a third-party tax-
advantaged investment expert noted the portfolio wasnt as diversified as originally 
envisaged as at May 2016 but further diversification was expected over time. There was 
nothing to show that wasnt a reasonable expectation and I noted the expert gave positive 
commentary about the expertise of the investment team, which SJP took into account. 
Again, I was mindful to focus my assessment on information available at the time and not on 
what happened later. Further, there appeared to have been some confusion around the 
information in the suitability letter, which said Oxford Capital gave a spread of up to 40 
underlying investments and later claims that OCEPS was split across 22 investments. SJP  
confirmed that these figures related to a range of investments made by the underlying 
companies, recorded in the third-party report.
I agreed that it was unclear from the suitability letter that investment of £300m represented 
the total assets under management by Oxford Capital (see BPR relief matrix) rather than 
that within OCEPS. According to SJP figures the investment in OCEPS was £15million and I 
noted the representative says closer £6 million. Nevertheless, it was clear from the suitability 
letter that the other two providers were more established providers in the market, with 
significantly higher levels of historic investment, so I thought Miss W would have been aware 
that there was a difference. And I noted commentary from SJPs adviser, who confirmed that 
Miss W understood OCEPS was a smaller fund.
Despite some information shortcomings, I was not persuaded that they undermined the 
overall suitability of the recommendation to invest in OCEPS. The investment stood to 
provide IHT mitigation and was part of a wider recommendation to invest funds across a split 
of three providers, which it was reasonable to consider in context. 
In my view, spreading the investment across three different providers wasnt inherently 
unsuitable; each product gave opportunity for inheritance tax relief, which was of central 
importance to Miss W. Further, it meant risk exposure was spread not concentrated in one 
provider. I did not agree with the representatives claim that diversification was reduced by 
adding a third provider, as I addressed above there was some diversification within the 
OCEPS and it was envisaged this would increase over time. It was also relevant from the 
suitability report that discussions took place about investing across a range of providers and 
the appendices show information was provided about each provider to Miss W. 
Capacity for loss
It was also relevant considering Miss Ws circumstances above that she had capacity for 
loss. Miss W did not need access to the funds for day-to-day living, had retained emergency 
funds on account and was clear that she did not wish to leave the funds invested within her 
ISA.
Conclusion
Considering all the information from the time in the round, I was satisfied that Miss W was 
very much involved in the decision-making process and appeared to have been a driving 
force behind pursuing IHT efficient investing through BPR products. That was plain from the 
suitability letter that recorded Miss W was aware she could die at any time, had the will to 
make decisions and so wished to proceed with IHT planning, which she went on to enhance in 2018. Investing a further £125,000 into an accelerated inheritance tax solution with one 
provider. 
It was unfortunate that the OCEPS did not perform as well as the other products 
recommended at the time, but the fact that risks materialised, did not mean it was unsuitable 
for Miss W.
Balancing Miss Ws desire for IHT mitigation in the context of her pattern of investing and 
engagement in decision-making, I was not persuaded that she was exposed to more risk 
than she wanted to take with this particular investment. Considering all these factors in the 
round, I found that the recommendation was not unsuitable for Miss W and it followed that I 
did not uphold the complaint. 
Both parties have received the provisional decision. SJP have nothing further to add. The 
estate disagrees with the outcome and I have considered the response below along with 
reconsidering all the information provided, in order to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points raised on behalf of the estate and Id like to give 
reassurance that I understand the thrust of this complaint is that this particular product, 
OCEPS, ought not to have been recommended to Miss W. Those acting for the estate have 
repeated the core concerns namely that the product was unsuitable for Miss W because of 
the risk around the, limited range of under-diversified and unnecessarily risky underlying 
investments, particularly when better effective diversification could be achieved by selecting 
only two established less risky providers. 
For the same reasons as out in my provisional decision, it remains my view that it is fair and 
reasonable to consider the recommendation in context when assessing its suitability for   
Miss W. This decision focuses on whether the recommendation was suitable for Miss W, to 
be clear Im not required to consider whether other products may have been more suitable. I 
have independently assessed the information provided by both parties and have made my 
decision based upon the balance of probabilities.
I appreciate that those acting for the estate feel strongly about this matter and firmly 
disagree with the outcome reached in the provisional decision. I have taken into account the 
response on behalf of the estate, the majority of which addresses the information already 
provided, which I have considered. Whilst I may not address every point raised, I have given 
careful consideration to everything provided by both parties in reaching my final decision.  
Having carefully considered the information provided, but Im not persuaded to change my 
view.
There isnt any dispute that an estate planning service met Miss Ws objectives as detailed in 
my provisional decision and thats made clear by those acting for the estate who say that the 
advice to consider inheritance tax services products was/is virtually a no-brainer/easy-win 
to be give to someone in [Miss Ws] position (i.e. being someone of advanced years with a 
sizeable potential IT liability). Those acting for the estate say that,the BPR IHT saving 
concepts, net capital preservation would have been the lynch-pin of any advisory strategy. 
As Ive already addressed, the IM is clear that OCEPS was aimed at capital preservation, 
targeting maintenance of the capital sum, whilst also aiming to provide inheritance tax 
mitigation. That a series of risks materialised several years after investment does not 
undermine the underlying investment strategy.Its been suggested that SJP failed to consider Miss W was a vulnerable consumer in 
respect of this particular investment. This point hasnt been raised before but in any event 
there is nothing to show that SJP didnt consider Miss Ws particular circumstances when 
recommending this product. There was no issue with capacity at the time and Miss W did 
have family representatives with whom the business spoke. Its also now been suggested 
that undue reliance should not be placed on Miss Ws signing of the BPR declaration. As 
addressed in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the contemporaneous notes show 
that Miss W came to her adviser seeking inheritance tax mitigation solutions and this was a 
focus she chose to pursue with an understanding of the higher risks. Im persuaded that the 
contemporaneous notes are likely to be a more accurate reflection of events at the time that 
those now suggested by the representative for the estate.
Those acting for the estate repeat that investment with a reliable and proven provider would 
have been appropriate and imply that this would have reduced risk. They point again to the 
better performance of the other providers. But as Ive explained in my provisional decision 
the nature of these types of schemes means that they are inherently higher risk. Ive read 
the sections of the third-party report identified by those representing the estate and Ive 
balanced that with the overall conclusions in the report, leading to an overall positive score 
card rating of 85. Ive also noted that the Manager was said to have a strong presence in the 
tax efficient space and a good reputation in renewable energy investment. Further, it was 
anticipated that the return profiles were achievable under normal market conditions, the risk 
management process was described as extensive and robust and the capping of 
performance fees was said to better align the Manger to take risk more in-line with the 
investors targeted returns. It remains my view that it was not unreasonable for SJP to place 
reliance on the report conclusions.
Its plain those representing the estate believe there should have been more diversification 
within this particular product and have given a comparable example of funds being split 
across two index tracker funds with different providers and the third in two AIM listed 
companies. I dont agree that this is an analogous example because its common ground 
that the recommendation was across three inheritance tax savings products. Id like to 
reassure the representative that I have understood the submission that it is his view that this 
particular product should be considered in isolation and was higher risk because of the lack 
of diversification. But it remains my view that the recommendation was suitable for Miss W 
for the reasons addressed in my provisional decision. Further, I remain of the view that it is 
also fair and reasonable to consider the investment across all three providers in the round 
along with Miss Ws consistent pattern of investment into inheritance tax mitigation products. 
Further, it was a relevant factor that both before and after this investment, Miss W chose to 
invest funds with single providers. This bolsters my view that she was very much engaged 
with the decision-making process. 
As Ive explained in the provisional decision above, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not 
that Miss W understood these products were higher risk and it is likely that she was 
prepared to take those risks to achieve inheritance mitigation. Ive not seen anything new to 
persuaded me otherwise. Its also common ground that Miss W was in a position to 
withstand some losses. 
In light of my findings in the provisional decision and considering the matters above, I am not 
persuaded that the recommendation was unsuitable for Miss W.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
W to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman