DRN-3558659
The complaint
Mrs C complains that the windows and doors she financed in part through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (HCUK) werent of satisfactory quality. 
Information for this complaint has been provided by Mrs C and another family member but 
for ease of reference I have referred to Mrs C throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with HCUK in December 2019 for the 
installation of new windows and doors. The total cost was £7,075 and Mrs C paid a deposit 
of £2,075 leaving a loan amount of £5,000 repayable over 36 months. 
The windows and doors were fitted in February 2020. Following this Mrs C raised several 
issues. The suppliers re-visited Mrs Cs property and carried out remedial works, but Mrs C 
says these werent to a satisfactory quality and all issues werent resolved. In December 
2020, Mrs C said that she would allow the supplier a final attempt to correct the remedial 
issues but made it clear she wanted a different fitter to attend due to the unsatisfactory 
previous attempts to correct issues. At this time, she provided a list of outstanding issues 
including problems with mould which she said had arisen from the issues with the 
installation.
In February 2021, Mrs C made a claim to HCUK under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 for breach of contract due to the quality of the goods and services she had been 
supplied. HCUK instructed an inspection report to take place. This happened in May 2021 
and the report noted issues with the installation and goods. However, the supplier said that 
the inspection wasnt independent as the inspector had a vested interest in undertaking the 
repairs and that the report didnt meet either Consumer Rights Act 2015, Fenestration Self-
Assessment Scheme (FENSA), or Building Regulations standards.
On 16 August 2021, HCUK upheld Mrs Cs Section 75 claim based on the findings of its 
inspection report. It offered to either pay Mrs C £900 for her to have repairs undertaken by a 
third party (which would invalidate her warranties) or to pay her £200 and have the supplier 
undertake the repairs.
Mrs C didnt accept HCUKs offer. She said she wouldnt allow the supplier in her property to 
carry out repairs and that the compensation offer wasnt enough. She additionally 
complained about the handling and outcome of her complaint which HCUK subsequently 
issued a non-uphold final response letter on.
As Mrs C remained unhappy with HCUKs offers she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint. He considered the evidence provided of the 
issues and didnt think the windows and doors Mrs C had installed were of a satisfactory 
quality. Given the various issues that had been noted since the installation and the issues 
raised with the report undertaken for HCUK in May 2021, he thought a further independent 
inspection was needed. This took place in May 2022. Based on the May 2022 report, and 
other information provided, he recommended that HCUK arrange and cover the cost of the 
repairs as noted in the May 2022 report and that these should be carried out within a 
reasonable timeframe by the supplier. And for HCUK to pay Mrs C £400 for the trouble and 
upset caused due to the unsatisfactory quality of the goods and services, and the handling of 
the Section 75 claim.
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view. She noted the issue with third party repairs 
invalidating the warranties and reiterated that she wouldnt allow the supplier to carry out the 
repairs and gave her reasons for this. She noted issues aside from those listed in the 
May 2022 report which she thought had been overlooked. Mrs C said that under the 
regulations, repairs should be carried out in a timely way which hadnt been the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs C is upset by the experience she has had with the installation of 
her windows and doors. There were several issues noted following the installations and 
while the supplier did return to undertake remedial works these still didnt resolve all the 
issues and Mrs C has complained about the quality of this work. 
Under the regulations, specifically considering the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the windows 
and doors needed to be of a satisfactory quality and installed with reasonable skill and care. 
I have looked at the evidence provided by Mrs C along with the emails from the supplier and 
the inspection reports carried out in May 2021 and May 2022. These list several issues 
arising from the installation of the windows and doors, such as the rear door being 
incorrectly fitted, front door requiring adjustment, issues with the glazing bead and sealing in 
certain installations among other issues. The reports say that remedial work is required in 
order to bring the installation to the required standard. Based on this evidence I agree that 
the windows and doors were not installed with reasonable care and so I uphold this 
complaint.
The outstanding issue is what a reasonable remedy is in this case. Our investigator 
recommended that HCUK arrange for, and cover the cost of, the repairs to the windows and 
doors as set out in the May 2022 inspection report. I note Mrs Cs comments about this 
report and that not all the concerns she has raised have been covered. While I understand 
the point she has made, I have reviewed all the information and I have no reason to doubt 
that the inspector didnt look at everything required and I find it reasonable to place weight 
on the this inspection report. This report was carried out a by an independent inspector and 
itemises several areas for remedial action. I therefore find it reasonable that any 
recommendations for remedial work should be based on the recommendations of the May 
2022 report (full list of works to be taken from the report). I note the suppliers comments 
about some of the minor issues not being covered by a warranty after 12 months but given 
when issues were raised, I think all recommendations in the May 2022 report should be 
actioned.
Unfortunately, due to the experience Mrs C has had both in regard to the quality of the 
installation she received and also other service issues she has noted, she has explained that 
she isnt prepared to allow the supplier to carry out and further works at her property. While I 
understand her position, this raises issues as having the work undertaken by a third party 
could invalidate her warranties for the doors and windows. Having looked through the May 
2022 report the issues requiring remedial action are relatively minor and the report doesnt 
suggest issues with the windows or doors themselves, rather issues with the beading, surrounds and other problems linked to the installation. The problem Mrs C has identified 
with mould wasnt considered to be a result of the installation. With this in mind and noting 
Mrs C comments about other companies not wishing to take on the work, I find the best 
outcome is for the supplier to undertake the required remedial work. I would however think it 
reasonable that the team sent to complete this work includes different fitters to those who 
have previously worked at the property in the hope this makes Mrs C more comfortable.  
I note the comments about repairs being undertaken within a reasonable timeframe and the 
other issues of delay Mrs C has raised. This complaint has been ongoing for an extended 
period. There is a combination of reasons for this. In the initial period the supplier wasnt 
able to resolve the issues raised at the first remedial visit and subsequent to the suppliers 
visits, Mrs C raised further issues. Mrs C raised her Section 75 complaint shortly after she 
said she would give the supplier a final chance to repair and this then took time to 
investigate and the complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs C 
then noted she wasnt prepared to allow the supplier to undertake the repairs which raised 
further concerns. So, while I understand Mrs Cs frustration with the time taken to get a 
resolution, I think that the supplier did try to work with her in the initial stage. However, I do 
agree that further delays were caused by HCUK having an inspection report carried out as 
part of its Section 75 investigation that was disputed by the supplier. 
Mrs C was offered £200 for the unsatisfactory quality issues which I think is fair to be paid 
and I also think that HCUK should pay £200 for poor handling of the Section 75 claim. 
Putting things right
HCUK should:
arrange for and cover the cost of the repairs to the windows and doors as set out in 
the May 2022 inspection report  these should be carried out within a reasonable 
timescale and at a time acceptable to Mrs C. While noting Mrs Cs concerns these 
repairs should be undertaken by the supplier or any other party such that any 
warranties remain in place. In the event the supplier undertakes the repairs it should 
provide a different team of fitters to those that undertook previous work at Mrs Cs 
property. 
pay a further amount of £400 for the trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
unsatisfactory quality of the goods and services, and the handling of the Section 75 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman