DRN-3660728
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
its request for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
One of Bs directors, Mr K, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
B approached Barclays with a view to obtaining a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan 
(CBIL) in March 2021. The bank declined Bs request. It subsequently upheld its decision in 
light of Mr Ks appeal and complaint.
Barclays has said that Bs application fell outside of its risk appetite, and that this is based on 
the nature of Bs business. It says the decision was taken in line with its lending criteria, 
which it has declined to disclose to B in any more detail due to its commercial sensitivity. 
Mr K says Barclays hasnt properly explained why Bs application didnt meet the CBIL 
Scheme eligibility criteria and/or the banks lending criteria  so hes not satisfied that the 
application was assessed fairly and fears the company was deprived of the government-
backed support to which it was entitled. He also says that Barclays had indicated that it was 
willing to lend to B prior to the coronavirus pandemic, which was inconsistent with what it 
was now saying. 
One of our investigators reviewed Bs complaint but didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
Having received and reviewed Barclays lending criteria, she was satisfied that Bs 
application had been assessed  and declined  in line with this. And while the CBIL 
Scheme was government-backed, the decision to lend still rested with the bank  and 
it had been entitled to apply its own criteria in reaching its decision.
She understood Mr Ks desire to know the specifics of Barclays criteria, but she 
couldnt share these and highlighted that our service can accept information in 
confidence in certain circumstances.
She didnt think there had been any unreasonable delay in the bank reaching its 
decision. And while she could see that some of its initial explanations of the decision 
to Mr K werent accurate, this hadnt impacted things as B was never eligible for the 
loan it was seeking.
Although she could see that there had been some discussion between Mr K and 
Barclays prior to the CBIL application about a different lending proposition, shed not 
seen that it had agreed to lend or considered a full application.
Mr K remained unhappy, primarily because he didnt think Barclays had the right under the 
rules of the CBIL Scheme to decline Bs request on the basis of the industry it operated in. 
And he thought that the detail of this rationale ought to be provided to him in order to fairly 
address it. So with no resolution, he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, decision-making under the CBIL Scheme was fully delegated 
to the lender. And while there were specific eligibility criteria set by the government-owned 
British Business Bank, which administered the Scheme, lenders were also entitled to 
consider requests in line with their own lending appetite. 
Barclays was, therefore, entitled to consider Bs request for a CBIL in line with its existing 
lending appetite. It has shown us the relevant parts of its criteria that led it to decline Bs 
request. Im satisfied that the decision was reached in accordance with these criteria, in that 
it didnt wish to lend to businesses in the industry sector in which B operates. So I think it 
considered Bs application fairly  it had the discretion to apply its own lending policy, and in 
doing so it treated B in the same way as any other customer in accordance with its standard 
practice.
Ive noted what Mr K says about the alleged promise of other lending, prior to the CBIL 
application  which would seem to contradict the banks position that it doesnt lend to 
businesses in Bs industry sector. But as there was no other formal offer of lending, this 
hasnt led me to think Barclays has acted unfairly  as the other request may, ultimately, 
have been declined for exactly the same reason had it proceeded to a proper application. 
Mr K doesnt think this is relevant as he thinks Barclays wouldve told him straightaway if B 
was ineligible, but I dont agree  the position is complex, and may not have been 
immediately obvious to the member of staff he was dealing with.
I appreciate why it is difficult for Mr K to accept Barclays decision as I recognise that he has 
only been given a broad summary by way of explanation. But lenders arent required to 
divulge their rationale in any more detail than Barclays already has and, given the nature of 
the reasons at issue here, I cant fairly require it to do so. And as I think the banks criteria 
are subject to some legitimate confidentiality, Im not disclosing any more detail here either. 
All I can do is assure Mr K that Ive carefully reviewed how Barclays considered Bs request, 
including its assessment of B and its nature of business against the banks lending criteria, 
and am satisfied that it did so without error. I understand Mr Ks particular concern, without 
knowing the detail of the banks rationale, is Barclays understanding of Bs business activity 
and whether it was categorised correctly. I appreciate that concern. But Im satisfied that the 
bank gathered sufficient information to assess this and that it reached a reasonable decision 
in light of the evidence it had. I hope that an independent assessment of the matter will at 
least offer Mr K some comfort that the company hasnt been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman