DRN-3644984
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund payments she didnt make 
from her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs Y says she didnt make two payments of £99.95 to an online merchant. She wants the 
money refunded.
Nationwide said it wouldnt be doing anything further. Mrs Y had disputed these payments 
and another earlier one for £9.99 to the same merchant. It had temporarily refunded the 
payments and raised chargebacks. The chargebacks of the two payments of £99.95 had 
been defended by the merchant which stated that these were related to a monthly 
subscription for health-related items. Nationwide said the merchant had the correct details 
for Mrs Y. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the payments 
processed on 29 January 2021 and 28 February 2021 for £99.95 each had been 
authenticated with Mrs Ys details. There was no point of compromise for those. And she 
was satisfied that based on the documentation provided the merchant had followed guidance 
for continuous payment authorities. There was tracking information provided for the orders 
and proof of delivery. So, she was satisfied that items had gone to the correct address. It 
was clear that an item Mrs Y had received had come with a different company name but that 
wasnt uncommon. But it had the same order number relating to the payment on 28 February 
2021. The merchant hadnt provided a copy of an email confirming the order to Mrs Y, but it 
had the correct email address for her.
So, she thought it most likely that the Mrs Y consented to the transactions or allowed 
someone else to carry them out. Mrs Y may not have read the information when placing the 
order and realised she was authorising a monthly subscription. But that wasnt a reason to 
require Nationwide to refund this money.
Mrs Y didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that the merchant 
had been inconsistent and unconvincing in its explanation. Having her email address didnt 
mean that it had sent her an email. There was no evidence of this and had she received it 
she would have cancelled immediately. She had received cancellation notices for these 
reference numbers on 19 March 2021 from a business with a different name again. She said 
that she saw information online that made her think that this business was suspicious, and 
she blocked future emails. She had only received one bottle of the item and not two as 
stated she would receive monthly. But she had returned the product and so cancelled 
everything. So, she wanted to know why these charges had remained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated. Where credit is involved, as is the case here on credit 
cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a consumer wouldnt be 
liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else having 
possession of that card.  
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation for how the payments were made?
- Did Mrs Y authorise these payments?
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated. The merchant had the correct 
payment details for Mrs Y including her card number, CVV security number and address. 
The terms provided stated that this was a monthly subscription. The two payments of £99.95 
were charged in a way consistent with this.
The issue I need to decide on is whether Mrs Y consented to the payments and so 
authorised them.
Mrs Ys explanation is that she had nothing to do with these payments and that her details 
had somehow been obtained by a third party. She stated on her complaint form to this 
service that I have never been in contact with this organisation nor they with me. 
I want to say something about that explanation first. There is no clear point of compromise of 
her details. There are no other similar attempted or actual transactions to her account. Her 
statement shows she had a significantly higher card limit. A first disputed payment of £9.99 
to this merchant was debited on 13 January 2021. Mrs Y didnt seem to dispute that at the 
time she would have been able to see it on her account statement. But in any event that 
doesnt seem to have been defended by the merchant. The next two payments as set out 
above followed later. Ive seen evidence that goods were sent to Mrs Y relating to these. And 
she accepts she received at least one item. I find it unlikely that a fraudster in possession of 
Mrs Ys card details would have used them in this way and not attempted to take as much 
money as quickly as possible.
So, I think its most likely that the details used to make these payments came from Mrs Y. 
That conflicts with what she says and is an important finding in a consideration of whether 
she consented to the payments.
I can see that the name of the business shown on her statement differed from that of the one 
delivering some goods and also to that business corresponding with her about the 
cancellation. And so, I see the potential for confusion about exactly which business any 
agreement was with and who the goods were coming from. I appreciate that Mrs Y says that 
there is no copy of the email the business charging her said it had sent confirming the order. 
She also says that there is no evidence shed ticked a box on the website stating that she 
agreed to be charged monthly. I accept that there is incomplete evidence about that. But I 
dont see any likely explanation here other than that she consented to the payments, and 
possibly hadnt read the information and terms online. She says she had kept her details 
safe and so no one else could have made the payment and I think that another person could 
only have done so with her consent too.
I also note that Mrs Y received cancellation emails on 19 March 2021. I think it most likely 
these followed Nationwide raising chargebacks and taking action to cancel her card and 
protect her account from future payments to this merchant. These emails state that her 
subscription has been updated and all future charges refunded. I dont think that meant that anything charged before would be refunded. And that merchant as I say defended 
chargeback claims. The basis of the chargeback was that she hadnt authorised the 
payments so Im not now able to look into whether Mrs Y received all the correct items which 
would be a different basis of dispute and so chargeback in which shed accepted she made 
the orders.
So, I know Im going to disappoint Mrs Y when I say that I dont have a basis to require 
Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman