DRN-3981813
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked access to funds which had been paid into 
his current account, causing him significant stress and financial loss.
What happened
Mr T lives in the USA, he holds a current account with HSBC. He stopped using this account 
in June 2018, and in August 2020 a dormancy marker was added to the account. Significant 
funds were then paid into the account from UK pensions.
In August 2021 Mr T needed access to these funds as he was intending to purchase a 
property. It took around two months for the dormancy marker to be removed from Mr Ts 
account so that he could begin to transfer the funds out. Several of his transfers were then 
flagged for additional fraud checks. 
Mr T says that, because of these delays, he had to pull out of his property purchase, 
meaning he ended up spending significant funds on temporary housing and storage while 
arranging a new purchase. HSBC paid Mr T £540 total for any stress caused by the delays, 
but Mr T feels it should pay significantly more compensation  enough to cover the additional 
costs he has incurred.
As HSBC could not resolve things to Mr Ts satisfaction he referred his complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. Overall, while she agreed that 
there had been some delays on HSBCs part, she felt that the offer is had made was a fair 
way to resolve Mr Ts complaint. Mr T did not agree, so his complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same decision as our Investigator, and for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr T had held this current account with HSBC for several years. On 1 June 2018, he 
transferred £300 out of the account, leaving a balance of around £250. He then did not use 
the account again for some time. The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account state that 
HSBC may restrict payments in or out of an account if it is not being used, it says it will do 
this if an account is unused for between one and two years, but will let customers know if it is 
going to restrict an account in this way.
On 1 June 2020 HSBC sent a letter to Mr T  via the mailbox in his online banking  
explaining that his account had been unused for two years, and could pose a fraud risk. 
HSBC explained that unless Mr T took action to credit the account or make a transaction 
before 14 August 2020 then his account would be restricted, and he would be unable to 
make transactions or access it via online banking. As no payments were made into or out of 
the account, the dormancy marker was added to it on 14 August 2020. 
This was in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account  and is general practice for 
unused accounts across the banking industry. I appreciate that Mr T says he didnt see the 
letter HSBC sent to him, but Im satisfied it was sent to his online banking mailbox, and it 
was for him to ensure he was checking that mailbox for correspondence. HSBC has shown 
that the correspondence preference for this account was online, and given that this account 
had been unused for so long  and so was a potential fraud risk  the mailbox was also a 
much more secure method of correspondence than sending a physical letter in the post.
So with this in mind Im satisfied it was reasonable for HSBC to place the dormancy marker 
on Mr Ts account.
In November 2020, around three months after the dormancy marker was added, the account 
began to receive regular credits from Mr Ts UK pensions. In total the account received over 
£140,000 over the next ten months. Mr T has said that as his account was dormant, HSBC 
should not have allowed these funds to be paid into the account. HSBC has said that it is 
only customer-initiated transactions that are blocked when an account is dormant, and not 
payments like BACS payments, as the fraud risk from those is low. Ive seen an extract from 
HSBCs internal dormancy process guidance and that does specify that it is customer-
initiated transactions which are blocked. 
I appreciate that one of the staff members who wrote to Mr T about his complaint stated that 
these deposits should not have been allowed on a dormant account, but Im satisfied that 
was an error on the part of that individual staff member, who appears to have misinterpreted 
the guidance. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted in line with its procedures here. Im also 
satisfied that its explanation for why payments into the account were allowed is reasonable 
in the circumstances. I therefore dont find that HSBC did anything wrong in allowing these 
payments into Mr Ts account.
In August 2021 Mr T was in the process of selling his property and purchasing a new one, so 
he needed access to the funds in this account. When he couldnt access this account via 
online banking he got in touch with HSBC and discovered the account had been marked as 
dormant. In a call on 17 August 2021 HSBC explained to Mr T it would need to see certified 
copies of documents to prove his identity and address before it could remove the dormancy 
marker and allow him to transfer the funds out of the account.
Mr T send copies of documents to HSBC on 25 August 2021, but it took until 16 September 
2021 for HSBC to confirm that it needed these documents to be certified before it could 
accept them. At this stage Mr T said he had already decided to pull out of his house 
purchase as he was concerned he would not have the funds in time and would therefore be 
at risk of losing his deposit on the property.
Mr T provided the certified copies of the relevant documents on 21 September 2021, and the 
dormancy maker was removed on 29 September 2021. 
Ive listened to many of the calls Mr T had with HSBC around this time, and I can appreciate 
his frustration with the process. I also agree that there was a delay on HSBCs part here. It 
received the initial documents he sent in August 2021 but took over two weeks to tell him 
that they needed to be certified. HSBC paid Mr T £500 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by this delay, and I think that is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr T says he had pulled out of his property purchase in the meantime, as he 
was concerned he would not have the funds in time. But while I can understand why he did this, it was his decision to do so, and ultimately the dormancy marker was removed from his 
account before the property purchase was due to complete. So I dont think I can fairly say 
that HSBC was responsible for Mr Ts decision to pull out of the purchase, it follows that I 
therefore also do not find HSBC responsible for the costs Mr T incurred in housing and 
storage following that.
Once Mr Ts account had been unblocked, he attempted to make a series of payments to an 
account in his name with a third party that could process the payments into US dollars and 
send them on to his US bank account. Several of these payments were flagged by HSBCs 
internal fraud process, meaning that Mr T had to make further phone calls to verify that he 
had made the payments. Ive listened to many of these calls, and again I can entirely 
understand Mr Ts frustration here. But given the nature of the payments, and HSBCs 
obligations regarding fraud checks, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to ask for 
additional confirmation that the payments were genuine and that Mr T wasnt at risk of being 
scammed or defrauded.   
I can also see that when payments were flagged, and Mr T got in touch with HSBC to verify 
them, these payments were released quickly, so I dont consider that HSBC caused any 
undue delay here.
Mr T has also commented that he was only able to make limited transfers per day, and that 
is correct, but thats because there are daily limits for different types of transactions. As Mr T 
lives overseas his options were limited to phone and online payments, and that meant that 
there were limits to how much he could transfer. I dont though think it is unreasonable for 
HSBC to have such limits in place, again this is part of its processes to protect against fraud. 
Nonetheless, HSBC recognised that Mr T had been inconvenienced by this process and 
paid him £40 to recognise that.
I want to say that I do have real sympathy for Mr T, he has found himself in a very difficult 
situation and I dont doubt the stress caused by it all. But my role here is to decide if HSBC 
has made errors that directly impacted Mr T, and as explained above, while I acknowledge 
that there were points where HSBC could have provided better service, Im satisfied that it 
has done enough to recognise the impact of that, and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr T, but I hope he will understand the reasons for my 
decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman