DRN-3400031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
handled and settled their claim for subsidence on their home insurance policy.
What happened
This claim has been ongoing for a number of years. And during that time many different 
contractors and parties have been involved. In order for me to explain my decision, its 
important to first establish the timeline of events throughout the claim. So for ease of reading 
Ive laid this out first below.
Throughout I will refer to a number of different people, who I have anonymised to prevent 
identification on the publication of this decision. But for reference they are as follows:
N  the first loss adjuster appointed by RSA.
C  the second loss adjuster appointed by RSA.
G  the contract administrator of the JCT (Joint Tribunal Contract).
R  the contractor appointed by G, that went into liquidation in 2017. 
L  the contractors who completed repairs after R went into liquidation. 
S  RSAs agent appointed to oversee claim management.
M  chartered engineer appointed by G. 
2012
In June 2012 Mr and Mrs C first noticed cracks in their living room and contacted RSA. RSA 
appointed a loss adjuster  N, who attended the property and produced a report on the 
possible causation and further investigation required. 
2013
N instructed an arboricultural and drainage report. As a result of this a number of trees were 
removed from around Mr and Mrs Cs property by a contractor appointed by RSA. Mr and 
Mrs C were unhappy with one of the trees in particular being removed which they challenged 
unsuccessfully. They were sent a letter from the contractor regarding their challenge which 
they found unnecessarily aggressive and distressing. 
2014
In May 2014 a meeting took place at the property between Mr and Mrs C, RSA and L. It was 
noted that the propertys condition had deteriorated and hadnt stabilised. 
In June 2014 Mr and Mrs C were becoming very dissatisfied with the progress of the claim to 
date. They asked L if there was anyone who could help them deal with the claim. L put them 
in touch with a chartered surveyor  G. L subsequently asked G to prepare an independent 
report on the damage to the property on behalf of Mr and Mrs C. 
In October 2014, Mr and Mrs C made a complaint to RSA. They felt the claim had made little 
progress and the cracking at their property was getting worse. They also werent happy with 
how the monitoring had been conducted and about the aggressive letters sent to them 
regarding the tree removal. They asked that N were removed from the claim completely and 
said in their complaint letter to RSA:
In the circumstances we would wish to appoint our own Chartered Surveyor and Chartered 
Engineer to carry out meaningful investigations to properly diagnose the causation of the 
serious structural movement to the building and prepare an appropriate scheme for remedial 
work.
Would you please confirm in early course that in all the unsatisfactory circumstances of this 
case that [N] will be dis-instructed and that Insurers will be agreeable to us appointing our 
own professional team at Insurers costs including Contractors investigations and our team 
can then report appropriately to Insurers seeking approval for remedial measures and 
superstructure repairs.
Following the complaint RSA appointed S to take over the management of the claim on its 
behalf. In December 2014 a meeting took place at the property between Mr and Mrs C, S, G 
and Gs appointed chartered engineer  M. Mr and Mrs C expressed their disappointment at 
how the claim had progressed and said RSA had now provided seven different engineers to 
attend their property which hadnt helped continuity of work. 
2015
In May 2015 N was formally removed from the claim by RSA and was replaced by a new 
loss adjuster  C. Around this time S attended Mr and Mr Cs property again and noted the 
level of deterioration and agreed the claim hadnt been handled well and that compensation 
would be due. He also offered an apology from the CEO of N.
In July 2015 C produced a report that concluded the cause of the damage was heave that 
was likely caused by the previous tree removal. 
In October 2015 another site meeting took place between C, S, G, M and Mr and Mrs C. C 
confirmed that underpinning was required to parts of the building. Subsequently C produced 
a report of the meeting that lists G and M as surveyor and engineer representing the 
customer and goes on to state: it was agreed that [G] would take the role of Contract 
Administrator at a fee rate of 10% contract costs including all Engineering fees for [M].
Shortly after this, S wrote to Mr and Mrs C to confirm that RSA had accepted the claim for 
underpinning of part of the property. In an email to Mr and Mrs C he says:
I have also agreed with [G] that he and [M] will take a lead role in the repair of your home in 
other words they will write the necessary schedule of repairs, obtain two tender prices, 
supervise works and certify satisfactory completion.
[C] will remain as my eyes and ears in the field and deal with any day to day loss adjusting 
and insurance matters.
G subsequently wrote to C to confirm that he will be acting as the contract administrator for 
the property under a JCT (Joint Contracts Tribunal). This is a contract put in place to agree 
who is responsible, when entering into building work. In November 2015 G produced a report for Mr and Mrs C detailing the necessary remedial 
work. The report describes Mr and Mrs C as the employer and confirms G as the contract 
administrator. It also states: The Contract shall be a JCT Minor Building Works Agreement.
The same month a payment mandate from Mr C to RSA was signed by Mr and Mrs C. It 
stated: We confirm that insurers may issue payment to the contractor named above under 
the direction of [C] as a result of this insurance claim 
2016
In 2016 tendering for the works began and G obtained quotes from L, R and a third 
contractor RSA put forward. R provided the cheapest quote and RSA therefore asked G to 
proceed with them. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this as they had wanted to use L. This 
option was offered to them, but RSA said they would need to pay the difference between the 
two quotes. Mr and Mrs C had to decline as this wasnt affordable. R were appointed by G in 
April 2016.
In July 2016 the JCT contract was put in place with Mr and Mrs C listed as the employer, R 
as the contractor and G as the contract administrator. It was signed by G on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs C, witnessed by M. Mr and Mrs C have said theyve never seen a copy of this 
document, nor were they aware of its existence.
Around this time Mr and Mrs C moved into alternative accommodation for six months while 
the work was completed. During this time piling of the foundations was completed which 
resulted in Mr and Mrs Cs conservatory being completely demolished. C has said this was 
at their request as they intended to build an extension instead. However Mr and Mrs C have 
said this was done against their wishes. 
They moved back into the property just before Christmas 2016 but the work was unfinished. 
They said there were no curtains and no phone connection. The work to the external walls of 
the house and the electrics was also not completed. Mr and Mrs C were also unhappy with 
the standard of work completed.
2017
In February 2017 G wrote to C to say R were going into liquidation. He said he would need 
to terminate the JCT agreement to ensure any further money wasnt paid directly to R, as 
this may result in it being wrongly attributed between sub-contractors by the liquidators. He 
said this may mean Mr and Mrs C wouldnt be able to get certificates of completion for the 
various works. In March 2017 the JCT was terminated. 
RSA paid the final amount due to R - £61,674.25 - to Mr and Mrs C directly and asked for it 
to be stored in a separate bank account so it could be transferred to the liquidators to cover 
any money still owing. However it didnt take responsibility for the liquidators as R was 
working for Mr and Mrs C and not it. 
In September 2017 Mr and Mrs C signed a form of acceptance stating: Subject to your 
approval and to the terms and conditions of the policy, I hereby agree to accept the sum of 
£61,674.25 in full; discharge and satisfaction of interim certificate No. 3 under the above 
claim number which occurred at [address].
2018
At the beginning of 2018 L were instructed by G to complete any unfinished work. RSA 
made payment to them directly of £47,252.36 in April 2018. RSA said that this was to cover insurance related repairs that werent completed by R and not the correction of any poor 
workmanship. It suggested that the cost of any errors that needed correcting should be 
deducted from the amount claimed by the liquidators. 
In August 2018 C visited the property to finalise costs and subsequently directed RSA to 
make a final payment of £24,299.18 to Mr and Mrs C, which it agreed to. They said this 
covered work needed to correct poor workmanship by R, which wasnt covered under the 
policy. In the report compiled after the visit C stated:
Previously, during the final meeting with Mr and Mrs C, they expressed their frustration with 
the claim. Whilst this has been partly due to R falling into liquidation, we have explained that 
it was their surveyor who project-managed and recommended this contractor so no fault 
could lie with RSA. However they have also expressed their frustration with events that 
occurred prior to our involvement and may be writing to you about this separately.
In September 2018 C issued a certificate of structural adequacy to Mr and Mrs C. 
However Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the way the claim had progressed from the start 
and were concerned that they were now being chased by the liquidators of R for costs 
related to the claim. They didnt think it was fair that RSA were providing no support or help 
with this. They made a complaint to RSA, which it responded to in November 2019. In the 
final response RSA offered £4,000 compensation for poor service and £2,400 towards the 
costs of rebuilding the conservatory. But maintained that it had now paid the full and final 
settlement for the claim and had discharged its liability. And that it had no involvement with 
the R, so wasnt responsible for costs being chased by their liquidators.
Our investigators opinion
When our investigator made contact with RSA it raised concerns about our jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint. It said that our applicable award limit was £150,000 due to the date 
of the complaint. It said it had already paid over £300,000 towards the claim so this service 
doesnt have the power to award anything further.
Our investigator considered this but didnt agree the complaint was out of the services 
jurisdiction. However she agreed the award limit applied and therefore anything above this 
limit would only be a recommendation and wouldnt form part of a legally binding final 
decision, if one was issued. I dont agree with this but for the purposes of this decision, I do 
not consider I need to go into this any further. 
Our investigator concluded that RSA hadnt treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. She thought G was 
acting with ostensible authority from RSA and therefore RSA hadnt acted fairly by taking no 
responsibility for the demands from the liquidators. She recommended RSA provide legal 
support for Mr and Mrs C when dealing with the liquidators. And she said it should pay their 
costs for instructing a quantity surveyor to deal with the liquidators to date. 
She also thought RSA hadnt paid enough to settle the claim and recommended it pay an 
additional £15,939.40 for various additional repairs. Further, she recommended it pay for the 
cost of reinstalling Mr and Mrs Cs conservatory, based on the lowest of three quotes they 
were to obtain. 
RSA didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said as G was instructed by Mr and Mrs 
C, and it was G who appointed R, it had no involvement in the contract so had no 
responsibility in relation to the demands from the liquidators. It also said it had paid the final 
settlement to Mr and Mrs C so didnt agree any further amounts were due. As agreement hasnt been reached, the matter has come to me to decide.
My provisional findings
In February 2022 I wrote to both sides with my provisional findings. Which were as follows:
A large part of this complaint relates to the actions of R  the standard of the work they 
completed and the consequences Mr and Mrs C are now facing after they went into 
liquidation. RSA has said that R were working for Mr and Mrs Cs representative as part of a 
contract that it was not involved in. However Mr and Mrs C have maintained that they 
werent aware of the contract and wouldnt have entered into it if they had been aware. 
In order to come to a decision on whether RSA has treated Mr and Mrs C fairly in the 
resolution of this complaint, I first need to consider the JCT contract and who instructed G 
and R.
There were a large number of different parties involved in this claim, but its important to note 
that in this decision I am considering just the actions of RSA and its agents that it is 
responsible for. 
The JCT contract
While the existence of the JCT contract isnt in dispute  as this has been provided as part of 
this complaint- Mr and Mrs C have maintained that they didnt instruct G, had no knowledge 
of the contract and had assumed G was working for RSA.
Its very difficult to determine exactly what was known, by who and at what time. But when 
facts are disputed I need to decide whats most likely based on the available evidence. And 
from what Ive seen I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs C werent fully aware of Gs 
instruction or at least the consequences of this instruction. 
However Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest that RSA misled Mr and Mrs C, or 
purposefully removed itself from the claim in order to avoid its responsibilities under the 
contract. It seems more likely that Mr and Mrs C were misled by G. So I dont agree that 
RSA were responsible for G or Rs actions. Ive explained my reasoning below.
In Mr and Mrs Cs complaint letter to RSA in October 2014 they expressly stated that they 
wanted to appoint their own experts to conduct investigations and scope the works. As 
quoted earlier in this decision, but repeated below for clarity, they said:
In the circumstances we would wish to appoint our own Chartered Surveyor and Chartered 
Engineer to carry out meaningful investigations to properly diagnoses the causation of the 
serious structural movement to the building and prepare an appropriate scheme for remedial 
work
Would you please confirm in early course that in all the unsatisfactory circumstances of this 
case that [N] will be dis-instructed and that Insurers will be agreeable to us appointing our 
own professional team at Insurers costs including Contractors investigations and our team 
can then report appropriately to Insurers seeking approval for remedial measures and 
superstructure repairs.
At the time, S was leading the claim for RSA and he had identified that it hadnt been 
managed well up until that point. He agreed to Mr and Mrs Cs request and G and M were 
both present at future site meetings after this. It seems from S, and RSAs, point of view both G and M had been introduced as Mr and Mrs 
Cs own professional team as they had previously requested in their complaint. And that 
RSAs loss adjuster, C, would now take a back seat role, of just ensuring the costs that fell 
within RSAs liability were paid. 
This is confirmed by Ss email to Mr and Mrs C in October 2015:
I have also agreed with [G] that he and [M] will take a lead role in the repair of your home in 
other words they will write the necessary schedule of repairs, obtain two tender prices, 
supervise works and certify satisfactory completion.
[C] will remain as my eyes and ears in the field and deal with any day to day loss adjusting 
and insurance matters.
So from what Ive seen I think S, on behalf of RSA, agreed to Mrs and Mrs Cs request to 
use their own experts in order to ensure the claim was moved on promptly due to the 
previous problems. And it seems that this was agreed on the assumption that all work would 
be completed by Mr and Mrs Cs appointed contractor and project managed by G, on behalf 
of Mr and Mrs C. So I think its most likely that RSA thought Mr and Mrs C had knowingly 
instructed their own experts as requested in their complaint letter. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that RSA acted in good faith to try and move the claim forward in 
a manner that was agreeable to Mr and Mrs C by allowing G to project manage the work on 
their behalf. And I have seen no evidence to suggest it acted dishonestly or to mislead Mr 
and Mrs C in relation to Gs instruction. 
It seems most likely that it was aware G was under Mr and Mrs Cs instruction and based on 
the correspondence from them, assumed Mr and Mrs C were acting in full knowledge and 
understanding of this instruction. For this reason I dont think RSA has treated Mr and Mrs C 
unfairly in relation to the instruction of G and R, and I dont think it would be fair to hold it 
accountable for their actions.
Having said this, I also have little doubt that Mr and Mrs C have been mis-led during this 
claim. I have read and listened carefully to their account and I dont doubt the truth of what 
they say. They are lay people, and not insurance experts, so its reasonable that they would 
assume the claim was being handled in the same way as other claims. And may not have 
realised the potential consequences of Gs appointment, or possibly even that he was 
working for them rather than RSA. However in this decision I am considering only the actions 
of RSA and its appointed agents to decide if it acted fairly. 
The JCT contract was between Mr and Mrs C and G and Ive seen nothing to persuade me 
that RSA and its agents had any direct involvement in this contract. If G set this up without 
the knowledge of Mr and Mrs C, as they suggest, then I can see this has put them in a very 
difficult position at no fault of their own. However while Mr and Mrs C wouldnt be 
responsible for this, it also wouldnt be reasonable to hold RSA responsible for it either. As G 
was not acting as its agent and RSA was not privy to the agreement. I think the responsibility 
for putting the contract in place and explaining the terms and consequences lay with G. 
I note Mr and Mrs C have said that G was introduced to them by one of RSAs agents, and 
therefore was recommended by someone working on RSAs behalf. Ive considered this but I 
dont agree this has any bearing on RSAs responsibility for G. 
From the correspondence on file, it seems Mr and Mrs C spoke to L about their frustrations 
with the claim in 2015. And L suggested they get an independent report to present to the 
insurers. They subsequently introduced Mr and Mrs C to G by email, in which they stated:They [Mr and Mrs C] basically are getting nowhere fast, and I have suggested that prior to a 
formal complaint to [N] and insurers they need a professional independent report to 
substantiate their position.  
I think the above shows Ls introduction was quite separate from any work it had done on
behalf of RSA, as the purpose was to produce an independent report in order to substantiate
a complaint against it. So I dont agree its reasonable to say that RSA are responsible for
this introduction as L were acting outside of its responsibilities to RSA.
So in summary, Im persuaded that RSA acted in good faith to fulfil what it thought Mr and 
Mrs C had requested by allowing G to act on their behalf. So I dont think RSA should take 
any further action in relation to the contract, nor do I think it is reasonable to hold it 
responsible for the consequences of the contract. This includes any action taken by the 
liquidators, including offering financial assistance to meet their demands.
I understand this will come as a big disappointment to Mr and Mrs C. And I want to assure 
them that while I dont think RSA are responsible for G or Rs actions, this doesnt take away 
from the severity of the issues they face or the impact this has had on them. And while it isnt 
RSAs responsibility to assist with the liquidators, or pay Mr and Mrs Cs legal costs they 
may wish to seek further advice from a legal professional to assist in their dealings with the 
liquidators going forward. 
RSA handling of the claim
While I dont consider RSA responsible for the actions of G and R, and therefore cant 
consider the poor repairs carried out by them as part of this complaint, I can consider the 
handling of the claim by RSA and its agents. And from looking at the timeline of the claim, I 
agree it was handled very poorly. And this has significantly contributed to the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs C have suffered. 
Ive focussed my review on the first few years of the claim, up until it was suggested that G 
take over the work in 2015. This is because everything before this time was the full 
responsibility of RSA.
During this time, little progress was made on the claim. Numerous reports were instructed 
but as the lead engineer was replaced seven times, there was a clear lack of continuity that 
stunted any meaningful progress. RSA agreed first at a site visit at the beginning of 2014 
that Mr and Mrs Cs property had deteriorated. And in a subsequent visit around a year later, 
RSAs agent S expressed shock at the lack of progress that had been made and took action 
to replace the appointed loss adjuster. This shows that no meaningful progress took place in 
this time, and in fact Mr and Mrs Cs property got worse in the first three years of the claim.
Also during this time, a number of trees were identified as the cause of the subsidence and 
removed. Not only did this cause Mr and Mrs C distress, as the company who carried out the 
removal sent them an unnecessarily aggressive letter, but it has also since been shown to 
have caused further problems and movement at the property. This was identified in Cs 
report of 2015, referenced earlier in this decision, where heave was found to be the cause of 
further movement likely due to the tree removal. It is very difficult to accurately quantify 
exactly how much time or cost this added to the claim, but the development of heave 
certainly prolonged it and caused further damage. Therefore increasing the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C substantially, as well as the overall length and cost 
of the claim.And it was after this poor experience of RSAs claim handling in the first few years that lead 
to Mr and Mrs C seeking help from an external expert. And while I feel Mr and Mrs C 
entering into the JCT with G and R is too remote to hold RSA responsible for it, I do think its 
important to consider when looking at compensation. As the poor claim handling, and 
distress it caused, may go some way to explain Mr and Mrs Cs decision in this regard. 
Taking all this into consideration, I dont think RSAs offer of £4,000 is enough to 
compensate for the substantial distress and inconvenience its poor handling of the claim 
has caused. And the additional time it has added to an already lengthy claim. Considering 
the impact, I think a more appropriate award would be £12,000 in total, inclusive of the 
£4,000 already paid. Since the decision has come to me, Ive put this to RSA and it has 
agreed to pay a further £8,000 in recognition of the distress its poor handling has caused. 
Settlement
Mr and Mrs C have said that they dont think RSA has paid enough to cover the insured 
works at their property. 
This claim has been extremely complex, particularly when considering the costs. This is 
partly due to the number of parties involved - payment was made to G and R, who paid their 
own sub-contractors, and later directly to Mr and Mrs C. But also due to the fact Mr and Mrs 
C took the opportunity to have some private work completed by R, which meant not all work 
completed was covered under the insurance policy. This made it more difficult to separate 
out. 
RSA appointed C to agree and arrange payment for the costs that were covered under the 
policy. The loss adjuster worked with G and R to ensure the payments that were made were 
suitable, met the liability of the policy and the correct works were scoped. RSA made the 
following payments:
4 August 2016 - £20,981.48 (to R)
4 September 2016 - £35,361.30 (to R)
13 March 2017 - £61,674.25 (to Mr and Mrs C)
16 April 2018 - £56,702.83 (to L)
21 August 2018 -£24,299.18 (to Mr and Mrs C)
It is important to note that as R werent working for RSA it wasnt responsible for correcting 
any errors it made, however in spite of this the final payment of £24,299.18 was made to 
help rectify the damage that poor work that had been completed. 
While Mr and Mrs C have said these amounts havent covered the work needed, theyve not 
provided anything to show that the work completed that was covered under the insurance 
policy, was greater than the amounts paid above. Instead theyve just shown recent costs 
that theyve paid to rectify problems at the property. But Ive not seen enough to show that 
these problems werent already covered in the amounts paid by RSA. 
It is also of note that by paying the full costs of a contractor that hasnt been instructed by 
itself, including the professional fees of G, RSA were paying above what it is required to do 
under the policy terms. The policy states:
We will pay the cost to us of repairing or replacing the damaged parts of the buildings 
including fees and related costs, less any excess
So it is only required to pay the cost to it. Insurers have pre-agreed discounted rates with 
their own contractors which are usually less than the market rate. So it would have likely cost RSA less to get the work completed using its own contractors than the amount paid to G for 
the works. And under the policy, its only required to pay that amount to get the work 
completed. 
RSA appointed C to oversee the scope of works and ensure payments were in line with the 
work that needed doing, so Im satisfied it carried out a fair process when calculating the 
required settlement. And it has paid more than it was required to  partly by paying for the 
correction of some poor repairs and also by paying the full costs of work completed by R and 
Gs fees, rather than just the amount it would have cost it.
I note Mr and Mrs C have cited the fact the liquidators are demanding very high amounts to 
cover the costs of the work completed by R. But this alone isnt enough to say that the 
amounts paid by RSA were insufficient to cover the insured work. This is part of a separate 
dispute between Mr and Mrs C and the liquidators.
So in the absence of any evidence to show that the amounts already paid by RSA were 
insufficient to cover the insured costs, Im satisfied that RSA has followed a fair process in 
calculating what should be paid to meet its obligations under the policy. So I wont ask it to 
pay anything further.
Conservatory
While I think RSA has paid enough to cover its obligations under the policy, I understand Mr 
and Mrs C are particularly unhappy about the settlement offered with regards to their 
conservatory. So I wanted to address that directly.
R removed the conservatory completely when carrying out the work on the foundation piling. 
R and C have both said that Mr and Mrs C agreed to this as they planned to build an 
extension instead. However theyve disputed this and said the conservatory was removed in 
order to get equipment in place, against their wishes.
RSA has said that in order to get the piling equipment in place it was agreed that a window 
would need to be removed. So while it hasnt accepted responsibility for the cost, it has 
offered £2,400 as a goodwill gesture to cover that cost. 
As the piling work was carried out by a sub-contractor appointed by R, I agree that RSA isnt 
responsible for the cost of putting right any errors made by them as they werent acting as 
RSAs agent. This includes the removal of the conservatory. And therefore whether the 
conservatory was incorrectly removed or not is a matter of dispute between Mr and Mrs C 
and the sub-contractor. So I dont think RSA are responsible for the cost of putting this right.
However as it has put Mr and Mrs C in a difficult position I think the goodwill gesture offered 
by RSA is fair in the circumstances. But I wont ask it to pay anything further in this regard. 
Putting things right
Overall, I can see this has been an extremely distressing time for Mr and Mrs C and their
family and it continues to put a strain on many areas of their life. And I dont wish to diminish
this with the findings in my decision. However, I can only consider the actions of RSA in my
deliberations, and make an award for distress caused specifically by its actions and not
those of G, R or the liquidators.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont find that RSA are responsible for the actions of G or those
appointed by him. And it therefore wouldnt be fair to ask RSA to accept responsibility for the
errors made by them.However, I agree RSA has handled the claim extremely poorly. And I therefore intend to
require it to pay a total of £12,000 compensation, inclusive of the £4,000 already paid.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with my provisional findings. They provided a detailed response 
with a large number of attachments. I have summarised the points I consider to be the most 
relevant to my decision below. 
The main crux of Mr and Mrs Cs argument is that they believe RSA appointed G and 
M to run the claim for it, for the following reasons:
othe email correspondence between the parties proves that conversations 
about the work were largely between C and G, without their involvement.
oMr and Mrs C say S was too busy to take on the work at the time so RSA 
brought in G in order to project manage instead.
oEmail correspondence shows that RSA appointed G as he had to report to C 
who reported to S, who had the final sign off. So S, and therefore RSA, was in 
control of the work, not Mr and Mrs C.
oR was chosen to carry out the work rather than L, which would have been 
their preferred choice. 
oMr and Mrs C had no knowledge or sight of the JCT contract and didnt sign 
it. They also highlighted a discrepancy between the date of signing it and 
dates of emails from G about setting a contract up.
The amounts they have paid for the claim exceed the amounts RSA have paid, so 
they dont agree that no more is due.
Private works they had done have been overstated when considering the settlement 
amount as they just had the electrics re-wired and a few other small jobs.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree to their conservatory being demolished and have been left 
with the cost of rebuilding this which is unfair.
RSA allowed R to be appointed without doing any due diligence on it.
RSA didnt explain the roles of all the parties involved to them.
The main basis of my provisional findings is the complaint email they sent in October 
2014 when they were under a lot of pressure and stress.
My provisional findings used language like I think and it seems which were just 
suppositions and not supported by evidence.
I hadnt taken into account the extent of the impact the claim has had on Mr and Mrs 
C and their family when reaching my decision. 
RSA responded to accept the decision. However it asked for me to clarify that my decision 
represents a full and final settlement for all matters relating to this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its clear from Mr and Mrs Cs response to my provisional findings that they have taken some 
time putting together a response and providing as much evidence as they can. I appreciate 
the time taken and want to assure them that Ive read and considered everything theyve 
said and provided carefully. As this is an informal service, Ive not responded to each and 
every point, instead Ive focused on the ones which I consider are most relevant to the 
complaint.  
The appointment of G and M
The crux of this complaint is around the appointment of G, M and subsequently their 
contractors. This is because the consequences of this appointment have been significant. G 
appointed R who carried out poor repairs on Mr and Mrs Cs property, leaving them with 
substantial additional costs in order to rectify the poor work. And Rs subsequent insolvency 
has led to their liquidators demanding money owed to R from Mr and Mrs C.   
Mr and Mrs C have said that its their firm belief that RSA appointed G without their 
knowledge and have then sought to push the responsibility onto them.
Ive considered all the correspondence Mr and Mrs C have provided, and the points theyve 
made, but Ive not seen anything that persuades me that RSA had any involvement in the 
appointment of G or M.
A lot of the correspondence Mr and Mrs C have provided relates to the relationship between 
G, C and S. Theyve said that because G had to get sign off from C and S, this shows it was 
RSA that was dictating the work and that G was working for it. 
As I said in my provisional findings, while RSA agreed to let Mr and Mrs C appoint their own 
expert, this didnt mean it would have no involvement in the claim. As it had accepted the 
insurance claim, it still maintained the responsibility of ensuring the work that was being 
completed fell within the policy liability. And for arranging payment for this work. For this 
reason, its agents had to retain some involvement with the claim. So while G took on the full 
project management and responsibility for the work  appointing contractors, arranging the 
work and identifying what needed to be done, G still had to obtain sign off from C and S to 
ensure the work was covered and would be paid for under the policy. 
As Ive quoted previously, S stated in his email of October 2015, when he agreed to Mr and 
Mrs C appointing their own expert [C] will remain as my eyes and ears in the field and deal 
with any day to day loss adjusting and insurance matters.  This refers to the need for all 
costs and work to be signed off to ensure it falls within policy cover  which is the sole 
reason C continued to be involved in the claim. But this doesnt mean G was acting for RSA. 
Just that RSA were paying for the claim costs and needed to be sure they met its liability. 
So the emails requiring sign off, and discussing payment with C and S dont persuade me 
that RSA had any involvement in their appointment. 
In fact throughout these emails RSA refers to G as Mr and Mrs Cs professional advisor and 
the contract administrator. And at no point in any email Ive seen does it refer to G as 
having been appointed by RSA.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that the fact R were appointed, rather than their preferred 
contractor L, to do the work shows G wasnt acting under their instruction. As they went 
against their wishes. The reason for Rs appointment was due to cost. Rs quote was 
significantly more competitive than Ls and because of this RSA agreed only to cover up to 
Rs costs. As Ive said above, RSAs role had remained only to sign off costs to meet policy 
liability  and this is an example of this role. As RSA agreed to the cheaper cost only, this meant that payment would only be up to this amount, and this isnt unreasonable or unusual. 
In fact it is the reason why a tendering process is carried out for work  so the insurer can be 
sure that the appointed contractors rates are competitive. So I dont agree this shows that 
RSA were instructing G. Instead it shows that RSA had a responsibility to regulate cost.
I note Mr and Mrs C have said they were advised by G that if they were to fund the 
difference in cost in order to secure L to do the work, then this would mean they were 
responsible for the work without any protection. And I agree this advice was inaccurate and 
unhelpful. However this is advice given by G, so it isnt something I can hold RSA 
responsible for.
Mr and Mrs C have said throughout this complaint that they had no knowledge of the JCT 
contract and hadnt seen it before coming to this service. And I dont consider this to be in 
dispute. However the complaint I am considering is against RSA. So in the first instance, its 
for me to identify whether RSA has got anything wrong. In relation to the JCT contract and 
the appointment of G, Id only be able to say RSA got something wrong if Id found that it 
was responsible for G  so if G had acted as RSAs agent. But as I laid out in my provisional 
findings, and again above, Ive not seen any evidence that this was the case. Instead the 
evidence Ive seen has shown a request from Mr and Mrs C to appoint their own contractors 
that was agreed and accommodated by RSA. Followed by RSA remaining part of the claim 
for validation purposes only. Ive seen nothing that shows RSA had any involvement in the 
appointment of G. 
I know this claim has had a devastating impact on Mr and Mrs Cs lives. They have been left 
in a very difficult position. And to them, the issue of who is responsible is less important. As 
they, understandably, just want the issues resolved. However this matter is critical for this 
service to determine. As I can only direct RSA to put things right where it, or its agents, have 
got something wrong. And here, while I agree Mr and Mrs C have been poorly treated, Ive 
not found that G was working for RSA. Nor have I seen any evidence to suggest that RSA 
had involvement in their appointment. So for this reason I dont think that RSA are 
responsible for Gs actions or the actions of those he appointed and I cant ask RSA to take 
any action in relation to this over and above what I have already recommended. 
Settlement
Mr and Mrs C have said that theyve paid more on the claim than RSA has paid towards it. 
Theyve provided a spreadsheet of their costs to date. And say this shows the settlement 
amounts paid by RSA were insufficient. 
Ive considered this but it doesnt change my position as outlined in my provisional findings. 
As I said, RSA was only responsible for the costs covered by the policy. And not any costs 
related to poor work carried out by R or any private work that isnt claim related. I note that 
Mr and Mrs C have said that the private work they had completed was minimal, however the 
work to rectify Rs poor workmanship has been much more substantial. And while RSA paid 
for some of this, this is likely why Mr and Mrs C have paid more than they should have done.
But regardless, it isnt my role to decide which costs are claim related and which arent. This 
is for RSA to decide as part of the claim. Its for me to assess whether it followed a fair 
process in order to determine this. I said in my provisional findings that I was satisfied RSA 
had followed a fair process to validate the work covered by the policy and the costs 
associated. And Ive not seen anything that persuades me to depart from this decision.
ConservatoryMr and Mrs C have provided evidence that they had not agreed to their conservatory being 
demolished. However this isnt something Ive made a finding on. As this was carried out by 
a contractor appointed by R, RSA arent responsible for the related costs. Therefore whether 
Mr and Mrs C agreed to the demolition or not, I still wouldnt agree that RSA should pay the 
costs of reinstatement. As Ive found it isnt responsible for G, R or those they appointed. 
RSA has offered a payment towards the cost of the conservatory as a goodwill gesture. 
Which is reasonable considering the difficult situation Mr and Mrs C are now in. However as 
I cant hold RSA accountable for G and those they appointed, I dont find it responsible for 
these costs. So I wont stand in its way of making the payment, however I wont require it to 
pay anything more.
Comments on the content of my provisional decision
I have considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments about the basis of my decision resting heavily 
on their complaint letter written in October 2014, in which they indicated theyd like to appoint 
their own experts. Theyve said this isnt fair and as they were under a lot of stress and 
pressure when they wrote the email.
I appreciate my provisional decision referred to this email numerous times. This is because I 
needed to determine if RSA appointed G or if it was acting based on the understanding that 
he was appointed by Mr and Mrs C. And I consider this email to be relatively significant in 
these findings as it shows Mr and Mrs C expressed a wish to appoint someone independent 
to manage the claim, which goes some way to explain what happened next. However I want 
to assure Mr and Mrs C that this is not the only piece of evidence I have based my decision 
on. Ive considered all correspondence throughout the whole claim when reaching my 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs C have also expressed concern at my use of language, which makes my 
findings appear to be suppositions rather than on the basis of fact. When reaching a decision 
I have to weigh up opposing evidence from each side, in order to decide whats most likely, 
on the balance of probabilities. This means my conclusions are based on what I consider 
most likely happened, which is why I refer to what seems to be and what I think. However 
Ive also been clear about the evidence Ive based these conclusions on, so I hope this helps 
in the understanding of my reasoning.  
RSAs responsibility 
Mr and Mrs C have said that as their insurers, RSA had a responsibility to explain the 
consequences of the JCT contract with G. And that it should have done more to explain that 
to them.
As Ive explained previously, from what Ive seen I think its most likely that RSA thought Mr 
and Mrs C were knowingly entering into a contract with G. And therefore it would be 
reasonable for it to assume that they had full understanding of the contract and the terms 
and consequences were explained by G and outlined in the conditions of the contract  as 
this would have been Gs responsibility. However I accept it would have been helpful if RSA 
had done more to check that this was the case. 
I dont think this alone is enough to fairly say RSA were responsible for the contract between 
Mr and Mrs C and G, and therefore the consequences that followed, but it is something I had 
taken into account when deciding a suitable compensation award. 
ImpactMr and Mrs C have described the devastating impact the claim has had on their lives. And it 
is very evident that it has been an incredibly trying time for them both. My decision doesnt 
seek to discredit or diminish this. I have considered the contribution RSAs actions have had 
on the impact theyve experienced when deciding the compensation award. The award I 
outlined in my provisional decision is in the highest band of awards we make at this service. 
This is because I consider the impact of RSAs actions in the way it handled the claim to 
have caused Mr and Mrs C significant distress and inconvenience. As outlined in my 
provisional decision this based on RSAs handling of the claim that it was responsible for - 
largely within the first few years, before Mr and Mrs Cs complaint letter of 2014 and the 
impact these actions had on the rest of the claim. As while I dont agree RSA can be held 
responsible for the actions of G and those they appointed, and therefore the consequences 
of these appointments, I agree that the parts of the claim it was responsible for, were 
handled badly. And for that, I agree significant compensation is due. . And on considering 
everything again, I am satisfied that an additional £8,000 compensation, bringing the total to 
£12,000 is fair in the circumstances.
RSAs comments on a full and final settlement
Our rules dictate that on issuing a final decision on this complaint, this service will not review 
the same complaint again. So its reasonable that this decision represents the final answer to 
the complaint.
Putting things right
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling about this case, due to the impact it has had 
on their lives. And I really do sympathise with the position theyve now found themselves in 
at no fault of their own. However after considering everything, Ive not seen reason to depart 
from the decision I outlined in my provisional findings, for the reasons I have described 
above. I will therefore require RSA to pay an additional £8,000 compensation to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to pay them an additional £8,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman