DRN-3200828
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc turned down the loss of rent claim she made 
under her property owners insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms L held a property owners insurance policy with Allianz. She claimed on the policy for loss 
of rent after being impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ms Ls claim. They said while the policy covered a specified list of 
illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt one of the illnesses listed. They also said that the extension for 
action by police authority doesnt provide cover because thats designed to cover 
circumstances where the police close the property - which isnt the same as the Government 
instructing non-essential businesses to close. Allianz added that Ms Ls policy had been 
deemed not to provide cover by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Ms L brought her complaint to our service. She didnt 
agree with Allianzs interpretation of the extension for action by police authority and thought 
it was misleading for Allianz to have said that the FCA had reviewed her policy if they 
werent able to provide anything to show that had happened. Ms L said that Allianz had 
changed the wording of the policy at renewal, indicating that the one in place at the time of 
the claim provided cover.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover and he didnt think Allianzs comment about the FCA having 
reviewed her policy was misleading. 
Ms L provided a detailed response and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues of this complaint. 
Different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ms Ls claim. While Ive considered Ms Ls policy in its entirety Im going to 
focus on the extensions for specified illness and action by police authority to explain why Im 
not upholding Ms Ls complaint. 
Extension for Specified Illness
The most relevant part of this extension provides cover for a specified illness occurring at  
Ms Ls premises. The list of specified illnesses doesnt include Covid-19.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of illnesses. But there were policies on the market that provided 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ms Ls policy is not like this  
it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new illnesses 
and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ms Ls claim.
Extension for Action by Police Authority
The relevant part of this extension says:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from 
interruption or interference with the Business as a result of prevention of access 
to the Premises by the Police Authority due to a danger or disturbance in the 
vicinity of the Premises.
Im not going to comment on Allianzs example of what sort of circumstance this might 
cover, as it is their decision to say this extension doesnt cover Ms Ls claim that I need 
to consider. 
I have considered the detailed points Ms L has made about why she thinks this extension 
should provide cover but, when reaching a decision, Im required to take account of the 
relevant law. I think the High Court judgment is relevant to Ms Ls complaint, because the 
High Court considered a similar term to that within Ms Ls policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 436 to 437 of the judgment say: 
the government action in imposing the Regulations in response to the national 
pandemic cannot be said to be following a danger in the vicinity, in the sense of 
in the neighbourhood, of the insured premises. 
Even if there were a total closure of insured premises pursuant to the 
Regulations, there could only be cover if the insured could demonstrate that it 
was the risk of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the neighbourhood, of 
the insured premises, as opposed to in the country as a whole, which led to the 
action of the government in imposing the Regulations. It is highly unlikely that that 
could be demonstrated in any particular case.
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to provide 
cover in the event of a danger within the vicinity of Ms Ls premises. And I dont think the 
closure of Ms Ls premises was due to a danger within the vicinity of her premises as 
opposed to the country as a whole.
I understand Allianz changed the wording of this extension at renewal however, that doesnt 
mean the policy in place at the time of the claim provided cover. Therefore, this extension 
doesnt provide cover for Ms Ls claim.Allianzs comments about the FCA reviewing Ms Ls policy
Ive looked at Allianzs comments and I dont find them misleading. I can see that Allianz was 
trying to let Ms L know that her policy wasnt one that was being considered in the FCA test 
case as potentially providing cover. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay 
Ms Ls claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman