DRN-2526204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Newcastle Building Society didnt inform them that it was acting on 
behalf of another business when advising them to take out an endowment policy to repay 
their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out their policy in 1989. At the time Newcastle Building Society was an 
appointed representative of General Accident, now Aviva (for ease, Ill refer to Aviva 
throughout). 
Mr and Mrs R made a complaint about the sale of the policy, which was determined by this 
office in 2006. The ombudsmans final decision was the sale of the policy was suitable for 
their needs and circumstances at the time. 
In 2015 an ombudsman issued a decision dismissing a further complaint from Mr and Mrs R. 
They had wanted the sales complaint re-visited as the financial loss had crystallised on the 
endowment. The ombudsman decided that as there wasnt any material new evidence that 
would likely affect the outcome, it wasnt something we would consider again. 
Mr and Mrs R now bring a complaint that Newcastle Building Society didnt inform them it 
was working on behalf of Aviva. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as any 
responsibility for that remained with Aviva and so the complaint had been brought against 
the wrong party. She also explained we wouldnt look at the complaint about Aviva again. 
Mr and Mrs R have asked for the matter to be reviewed. They thought they could have their 
2006 complaint revisited when they didnt accept the outcome. They want the sale of the 
policy investigated again as they have suffered a loss. They also speculate that Aviva and 
Newcastle Building Society could split the loss between them.  They dont believe Newcastle 
Building Society has been open and transparent, it wasnt clear about fees nor were they 
told they were being transferred to another business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is very little I can add to what the investigator has said. At the time of the sale 
Newcastle Building Society were acting on behalf of Aviva. So any act or omissions  
including those that Mr and Mrs R complain of  fall to Aviva to respond to. I appreciate they 
feel very strongly about this matter, but as Newcastle Building Society were an appointed 
representative of Aviva at the time, that position wont change. 
That means any concerns Mr and Mrs R have about what Newcastle Building Society did or 
didnt do during that sales process need to be referred to Aviva. I leave it to them to decide 
whether or not they wish to do that. 
Its clear from their responses, that Mr and Mrs R would like their complaint about the sale of 
the policy investigated again. But an ombudsman has already decided the policy was 
suitable for them. And another ombudsman has decided we wont look at the matter again in 
the absence of any material new evidence that is likely to affect the outcome of the decision 
made in 2006. Mr and Mrs R still havent provided any material new evidence that would 
likely affect the outcome, so even if they did pursue their concerns further with Aviva, it still 
wouldnt be something we can help with. There is no further avenue open to Mr and Mrs R to 
have their sales complaint investigated at this office  our final stage has already been 
reached and the complaint decided.  It is highly unlikely any further requests for us to 
consider this again will reach a different outcome. 
I do understand this is very disappointing for Mr and Mrs R, but I dont uphold their complaint 
about Newcastle Building Society. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold their complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman