DRN-3094545
The complaint
Mrs P says Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix Life), trading as Pearl, gave her 
unsuitable advice to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
pension plan.
Mrs P is represented by Rightside Financial Services Ltd
What happened
Mrs P received financial advice from Phoenix Life in 1997. At the time she was 48 and 
employed as a machinist. She owned her own home, was single and had three non-
dependent children. Its recorded she didnt have any loans and had a small disposable 
income at the end of each month.  
The information gathered by Phoenix Life confirms Mrs Ps primary concern was achieving a 
sufficient income in her retirement. She was a member of her employers occupational 
pension scheme at the time of the advice. And her plan was to retire at the age of 60.
Phoenix provided advice to Mrs P to take out an FSAVC plan. It said:
I recommend you effect a Prosperity Additional Pension Account [PAPA], this 
recommendation is based on the fact that in view of the uncertainty which surrounds future 
employment prospects, and that you may change employers in the future, you prefer to have 
the flexibility to continue the plan with future employers. You also like the fact that [Phoenix 
Life] can provide you with a more personalised regular review of your pension needs and 
provisions     
Ultimately Mrs P accepted the recommendation from Phoenix. I understand she made 
regular contributions into her plan from 1 December 1997 until September 2000. She now 
believes Phoenixs advice was unsuitable, because it failed to properly explain the 
alternatives that were available to her.
Mrs Ps representative highlighted the availability of her then employers in-house AVC 
scheme. It says theres no evidence comparisons were made between the FSAVC plan 
Phoenix recommended and this alternative scheme. It also said the justification for its 
recommendation provided at the time relating to Mrs Ps supposed uncertain employment 
status was unfounded.  
Phoenix maintains that the recommendation for Mrs P to take out one of its FSAVC plans 
was suitable. It confirmed her priority at the time was to maintain her standard of living in 
retirement. It noted the plan was both affordable for her.  It said the advisor discussed the 
various alternatives with Mrs P and that she had confirmed she wanted to have the flexibility 
to continue the plan with future employers due to the uncertainty around her employment. 
Phoenix also says its records show the charges, penalties and plan features were all 
discussed with Mrs P and that it made her aware of the fact the charges under its FSAVC 
may be higher than under the AVC scheme with her employer. It was satisfied its advisor 
had met the requirements placed upon him by it and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Our investigator thought Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that
Phoenix Life had done enough to comply with the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales
when the sale took place. In particular, she didnt think it had been clear enough about the 
likely cost difference between an in-house AVC and the FSAVC policy.
Phoenix Life didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so Mrs Ps complaint has been 
passed to me to for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities,
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument about the events complained about.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers.
While Ive considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is 
relevant and at the heart of this complaint. 
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows
that Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
At the time Phoenix Lifes FSAVC advice was given, Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) from the 
Personal Investment Authority (a predecessor of the FCA) was in force. This update set out 
detailed guidance for advisers about what they should discuss when giving advice on plans. 
This included drawing the clients attention to the in-house AVC option. And discussing the 
differences between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC option in generic terms. It also stated 
that the client should be directed to her employers pension scheme for further information 
about the in-house AVC option.
This meant that Phoenix Life needed to discuss the following with Mrs P:
- In-house AVCs were likely to offer lower charges than the FSAVC policy.
- The tax treatment of contributions and benefits.
- That her employer might match or top-up the amount she paid into the in-house 
option, and the ability to provide additional life cover.
Ive looked at Phoenix Lifes recommendation to Mrs P. It said:
You are a member of your employers occupational pension scheme but are not currently 
on target to receive the maximum allowable benefits, at your intended retirement age. Using 
the scheme booklet that you have provided, I have completed a comparison between the 
AVC available within your employers scheme, a [PAPA] and PEPs.
As we know Phoenix then recommended its own FSAVC product. In doing so it went on to 
advise Mrs P that (bolding is my emphasis):We have discussed the charges, penalties and plan features associated with this 
contract, as per the Key features document which I have supplied. I have drawn your 
attention to the fact that charges under your [PAPA] may be higher than under the AVC 
available within your employers scheme. However, because of the benefits outlined 
above, I believe the [PAPA] is the most suitable means of achieving your retirement 
objective.
I cant know what was discussed between Mrs P and Phoenix Life when the policy was sold. 
Even though Phoenix Lifes notes state the adviser made a comparison between the various 
alternatives available to Mrs P, theres no information available to show those results or what 
she was told about them. 
For example, I cant be sure what Mrs P wouldve understood about the position on taxation. 
And theres no confirmation about whether her employer wouldve made additional 
contributions had she taken the AVC route. 
Even if I accepted that some of these generic differences between in-house AVCs and 
FSAVCs were mentioned by Phoenix Life in its discussions with Mrs P, I think there are 
other important weakness in its position. 
In its original advice and subsequently in making its case to this Service, Phoenix placed 
significant weight on the uncertainty around Mrs Ps employment and the greater flexibility 
offered by an FSAVC in her situation. Leaving aside that Mrs Ps representative disputes 
Phoenixs assessment of her work situation, Ive thought carefully about the points its 
raised.
Although some AVCs are inflexible, the charging structures of many FSAVCs make them 
potentially inflexible too. This is because the consumer may receive poor value if they stop 
paying in early on. Whereas if an AVC is discontinued because of a change in employment, 
its unlikely penal terms would be imposed. And while an FSAVC could be more portable 
between different employers, a new employer could offer an AVC on advantageous terms. 
So, I dont think Phoenix has made a compelling argument in this regard.
And even more telling, I find that its communication about the costs associated with its 
FSAVC, and that these may be higher than an AVC with her employer, lacks clarity. Phoenix 
will be familiar with what the RU20 said about such cost comparisons at the time (bolding is 
my emphasis):
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to 
exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
 
I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the likely cost difference between the FSAVC 
policy and Mrs Ps employers in-house AVC scheme was pointed out to her effectively. And 
I think that if shed been made aware of the cost difference, she wouldve contributed to her 
employers AVC scheme.
Overall, for the reasons given, I think its more likely than not that Phoenix Life didnt comply 
with the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales, and that its advice to set up such a plan 
was unsuitable. Mrs P should be compensated on the basis that she wouldve contributed to 
her employers in-house AVC scheme if shed had suitable advice.
Putting things rightPhoenix Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Phoenix Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% (dependant on expected
earnings prior to retirement) from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint. I require Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited to pay compensation to Mrs P in line with the redress Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman