DRN-3213245
The complaint
Ms Q complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner. And she further complains that ELL failed to treat her fairly when she faced 
problems repaying the loan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Ms Q was given a single loan by ELL in June 2019. She borrowed £5,000 that she 
agreed to repay in 36 monthly instalments. Ms Q has faced problems repaying her 
loan and it has been defaulted.
ELL gathered some information from Ms Q before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Ms Qs expenditure. It checked her credit 
file to see how much she was paying to other lenders and how shed managed credit 
in the past. And it looked at copies of Ms Qs bank statements to verify the 
information shed provided.
Ms Q was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Qs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient for ELL to achieve that aim  I think ELLs checks 
were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
 
The income and expenditure information that Ms Q provided, and ELL estimated, 
suggested that she would be able to make her repayments in a sustainable manner. 
So in the first instance I think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude that the loan was 
likely to be affordable.
The credit check results showed that Ms Q had generally managed her credit well in 
the past. I think ELL might have had some concerns about the number of active 
credit accounts that Ms Q was using  and that some of her credit and store card 
accounts were at, or slightly above, their agreed credit limits. And Ms Q had taken 
another relatively large guarantor loan just seven months before. So I think it was 
right that ELL probed a bit deeper into Ms Qs finances by looking at her bank 
statements.
Ms Qs bank statements dont show any evidence of serious financial problems such 
as excessive use of an overdraft, multiple other credit repayments, or regular unpaid 
transactions. They corroborated what shed said about her income and normal 
expenditure.
So taking all that information together I dont think it was unreasonable for ELL to 
conclude that it was likely Ms Q would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. I dont think ELL did anything wrong by agreeing to give the loan to Ms Q.
Around three months after the loan had been taken Ms Q stopped making her 
contractual repayments. ELL says that it tried to get in touch with Ms Q to understand 
whether she was facing any problems and to look at what it could do to assist. It says 
that around two months later Ms Q sent an email to explain that she had recently 
become a single parent and was struggling to meet her repayments. She offered a 
monthly repayment of £100 rather than the £307 she was contracted to pay.
ELL responded to Ms Q that it would be helpful if she could provide further bank 
statements showing her financial problems, and to update the income and 
expenditure information shed previously provided. Ms Q didnt respond to that 
request, and ELL sent three further emails in November and one in January that 
received no response. ELL also tried unsuccessfully to make contact with Ms Q by 
telephone in November and December.
In February 2020 Ms Q complained to ELL about the way it was handling its contact 
with her. ELL responded by email asking Ms Q to get back in touch to discuss her 
payment difficulties and providing her with details of a charitable organisation that 
might be able to assist her. And it sent a further email in March when it had still heard 
nothing back from Ms Q.
In March and April, there was some limited email correspondence between Ms Q and 
ELL. Ms Q advised that she had been in touch with a debt charity and so ELL placed 
her account on hold for 30 days to allow the charity to get in touch. However, when it 
heard nothing further, and taking account of the previous problems it had in getting in 
touch with Ms Q, ELL decided to default the account in June 2020.
When Ms Q explained she was facing problems making her repayments the regulator 
would expect ELL to take steps to ensure that she was treated fairly, with 
forbearance and with due consideration. It provided firms with a number of examples 
of this sort of behaviour including the consideration of reducing or waiving future 
interest charges, allowing the payment of arrears to be deferred, or accepting token 
payments for a reasonable period of time.
 
But it is my understanding that the regulators guidance isnt intended to leave debts 
outstanding for an indefinite period of time. Instead the requirement for lenders to 
show forbearance and due consideration to consumers who are facing financial 
difficulties is to allow a reasonable period of breathing space for consumers, facing 
an unexpected fall in their disposable income, to review their options.I think that the steps Ive described above were sufficient for ELL to meet its 
regulatory obligations. ELL didnt receive any payments from Ms Q for a considerable 
period of time, nor did she offer any evidence of the financial problems she said she 
was facing. And after allowing a further period of time for the debt charity to get in 
touch, it was reasonable for ELL to conclude that Ms Q wasnt likely to continue to 
service her debt. I havent seen anything that makes me think that ELL treated Ms Q 
unfairly either in the way it contacted her, or in its decision to default her account.
I have considered that the default was added whilst Ms Qs complaint was with this 
Service. There is no requirement for lenders to pause any normal collection activity 
whilst we consider a complaint. Obviously, should we find a complaint should be 
upheld, then any actions a lender has taken might need to be reversed. However 
since I consider that the loan was provided responsibly, I dont think it unreasonable 
for ELL to have continued with its normal collection activity and so defaulted Ms Qs 
account.
I understand how disappointing my decision will be for Ms Q. And I want to offer my 
sympathy for the events that led her into both originally taking the loan, and then 
being unable to afford her repayments. But I dont currently think that ELL was wrong 
to give the loan to Ms Q, nor did it treat her unfairly when she failed to make her 
repayments.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL has said that it accepts my provisional findings. Ms Q disagrees 
with what I said, and has provided some further comments. Although, here, I am only 
summarising what Ms Q has said I want to reassure her that I have read, and carefully 
considered, her entire response.
Ms Q says that ELL has missed out a lot of important information in its description of their 
relationship. She says she contacted the lender in October 2019 when she began to face 
financial difficulties. She says that she asked the lender to communicate with her by email. 
But she says that ELL then hounded her with telephone calls that made her mental health 
problems worse. She says that as a result she wasnt able to engage with the lender for a 
number of months.
Ms Q says that the check of her credit file should have shown that her credit rating had been 
poor for many years. She says she applied for the loan to help her partner pay off some 
gambling debts. But instead her partner gambled the proceeds of the loan and left her 
responsible for the debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms Q has said following my provisional decision. But Im 
sorry to tell her that her comments havent caused me to alter my original conclusions. 
I would however like to provide some additional commentary on the points she has raised.
I would expect ELL to have followed Ms Qs stated preference to discuss her problems in 
making her repayments by email. But in order for that to be effective, Ms Q would need to 
actively engage with ELLs reasonable requests. As I explained in my provisional decision 
ELL says it asked Ms Q to update the information she previously provided about her income 
and expenditure, and supply some more recent bank statements. When she failed to provide that information I cannot say it was unreasonable for ELL to attempt to make further contact 
with her. And since its emails were not getting any response, trying to contact her by phone 
seems to me to be a reasonable way forward.
In my provisional decision I discussed what ELL saw from the results of its credit check. That 
wasnt an entirely positive picture, with multiple credit accounts and some being above their 
agreed limits. So as I explained I think it was right that ELL looked to gather some additional 
information, from Ms Qs bank statements, about her financial situation. And since that 
additional information didnt show Ms Q facing any problems I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the loan to be agreed.
Ms Q has explained the background to her taking this loan. And it is understandable from 
that explanation why ELLs checks might not have shown that she was facing problems 
managing her money  its more likely problems would have been shown with her partners 
finances. But that wasnt information she gave to ELL when she asked for the loan, nor is it 
something that ELL should reasonably have discovered from its checks.
As I said in my provisional decision I have sympathy for the events that led Ms Q into both 
originally taking the loan, and then being unable to afford her repayments. But I dont think 
that ELL was wrong to give the loan to her, nor did it treat her unfairly when she failed to 
make her repayments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman