DRN-3519114
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with his private medical insurance with BUPA insurance Limited (BUPA).
What happened
Mr C had a private medical insurance policy underwritten by BUPA. He is unhappy about the 
delays to treatment during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr C had a procedure arranged in March 2020 which was scheduled for April 2020, but 
unfortunately his appointment was cancelled due to Covid-19. 
Mr C continued to pay his premiums and await his rescheduled appointment. Then in 
October 2020 Mr C received his renewal documents and noticed an increase in
the monthly premium by £53.20. 
Unhappy with this increase after not having access to treatment, Mr C contacted BUPA and 
asked them to refund him eight months of premiums paid where he said he didnt have 
access to treatment. 
Mr C also asked BUPA to cancel his policy, so his cover was terminated before Mr Cs 
treatment had been rescheduled. 
BUPA confirmed it was calculating a rebate to all its customers as it recognised that 
customers had a reduced access to services due to Covid-19. Mr C was offered a rebate of 
£251.36. 
Mr C said this didnt cover the eight months worth of premiums hed paid when he didnt 
have access to treatment. He also thought BUPA should pay for the cost of his outstanding 
treatment even though the policy had since been cancelled. 
Mr C referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was outside of BUPAs control that treatments 
were put on hold and overall she thought BUPAs offer of a rebate was fair in the 
circumstances of the pandemic. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said:
Hes paid an annual premium of £3017.64 without access to treatment for the 
majority of the year, so the rebate offered isnt enough. 
BUPA should refund the cost of the cancelled treatment and follow-up consultancy  
as this is the financial loss he has suffered by the treatment not going ahead as 
planned in April 2020, when he was still covered by the policy. 
If BUPA dont refund the treatment cost, then they are profiting from the pandemic.
He didnt understand why his premium was increased when the service provided was 
downgraded and restricted. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the law and industry guidance which say BUPA have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Access to treatment 
Mr C was unable to undergo his appointment due to the private medical facility 
closing, in response to the pandemic. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund 
premiums if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to 
circumstances outside of its control. BUPA doesnt own or operate the private 
facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer approved private facilities 
for use by the NHS was something which was outside of BUPAs control. 
I note Mr Cs comments that BUPA are in control of the actual service they provided, 
but I havent seen any evidence there was an alternative facility that was open where 
Mr C couldve been sent to receive the service during the time in question. So its 
unreasonable to hold BUPA accountable for the delay in access to treatment. 
BUPA had already pre-authorised the treatment, so the procedure would have 
eventually gone ahead under the policy if Mr C hadnt cancelled it. 
Retention of premiums 
As our investigator has already explained, theres no term in Mr Cs policy which 
entitles him to a premium refund if hes unable make use of all of the services he 
expected to be available. So, I dont think its fair to ask BUPA to refund the 8 months 
premiums as he has requested. 
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly that BUPA shouldnt retain his premiums when he 
was unable to access treatment that had been authorised. However, insurance 
policies are intended to cover the risk of an event happening over the duration of the 
contract and Mr C had an annual policy. So BUPA is entitled to retain the premiums 
paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim is made.  
In Mr Cs circumstances, BUPA provided cover for the duration of the year and Mr C 
was able to make three successful claims in March 2020 before access to treatment 
was restricted.  
Although appointments from April were being cancelled and delayed, Mr C was able 
to register claims and BUPA were pre-authorising treatment for the future, so Im 
satisfied they are entitled to retain the premiums taken over the whole year  
including the eight months Mr C disputes. 
Refunding the cost of the cancelled treatment
Mr C feels strongly that the pandemic has advantaged BUPA and disadvantaged 
him.  I understand why Mr C thinks BUPA should cover the cost of the treatment, 
because if it had gone ahead as planned in April 2020 he still wouldve been covered 
under the policy. But for the reasons already explained, this delay was outside of 
BUPAs control. 
The reason the cost of the treatment is no longer covered by BUPA, is because Mr C 
decided to cancel his insurance contract with them. Its not unreasonable that BUPA will only provide a benefit for customers that are still covered by their policy. As it was 
Mr Cs choice to cancel his policy I cant hold BUPA accountable for his financial loss 
here. They wouldve covered the cost once the treating facility reopened if the policy 
was still active.  
Premium increase 
Mr C is unhappy his premium increased in October 2020 when the service BUPA had 
been providing had decreased. However, BUPA had covered a number of claims 
made by Mr C in March 2020 and its not unreasonable that these three claims in 
2020 were taken account of in the renewal calculation. 
In summary, I know Mr C was unable to undergo his original appointment in April 2020, but 
this was due to the private medical facility closing as a result of the extraordinary  and 
unexpected - impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The policy doesnt make any exceptions for 
such a situation. So whilst I know this will be disappointing to Mr C, I dont think theres 
anything more BUPA should reasonably have done for him in the circumstances.
Although access to treatment was restricted during this period, BUPA were still pre-
authorising treatment to be carried out at a later date. And BUPA wouldve covered the cost 
of Mr Cs delayed treatment if he hadnt cancelled the policy. So I dont think theyve acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman