DRN-3594390
The complaint
Mr H complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) for its decision to 
decline his claim and void his insurance policy after a leak occurred at his home. He also 
complains that Admiral cancelled his alternative accommodation at very short notice, and he 
was caused disruption by having to vacate this. He wants Admiral to reinstate his policy and 
apologise for its actions.
What happened
Mr H held home insurance with Admiral.
Around 25 May 2021, Mr H called Admiral to advise that he was due to have loft conversion 
works starting at his property the following day.
The agent asked him questions about when the work was starting and about how the 
property would be changed. Mr H advised that the works were due to take 5-6 weeks.
The agent asked if Mr H would be remaining at the property while the work continues. Mr H 
answered yes. No further clarification or supplemental questions were asked.
Work then began. Mr H was mostly present at the property, working from home during the 
days, and from around 30 May 2021 he stayed elsewhere overnight. 
On 9 June 2021, Mr H was at his home during the day while work was ongoing. He and his 
contractors left the property around 6pm. 
Unfortunately, part of the new plumbing connections leaked overnight, and the leak was 
ongoing for around 12 hours. This caused extensive damage to the property and was 
discovered at 9.00am on 10 June 2021. 
Mr H submitted a claim to Admiral. 
A loss adjuster was instructed to survey the damage, and alternative accommodation was 
arranged for Mr H. This initially was due to extend until 14 July 2021.
On 12 July 2021, Admiral decided to void Mr Hs policy. It backdated this decision to 30 May 
2021 and wrote to Mr H saying that this was due to his vacating his property on this date. It 
stated that it would not have offered cover if it had been aware of this. Admiral also 
cancelled Mr Hs alternative accommodation and he was forced to leave this accommodation 
on less than 2 hours notice. 
Mr H complained to Admiral. He complained that he disagreed with the voidance of the 
policy and rejection of his claim, that he was not responded to when he contacted Admiral 
and that communications were unclear or misleading, and that actions of Admiral in 
consequence of it rejecting the claim were unfair.
Admiral responded in mid-August. It upheld Mr Hs complaints that he was misadvised not to 
make a claim on his household policy, and to instead claim on his contractors policy, and 
that calls were not returned to him. Admiral offered £150 to reflect these issues. 
Admiral rejected the substantive issues of complaint, including that the claim was unfairly 
rejected and the policy unfairly voided.
Mr H contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out a clear and comprehensive 
explanation of his view. This was that Admiral had acted unfairly in voiding the policy on the 
basis of a misrepresentation as the questions asked were not sufficiently clear. 
Our investigator considered that, although other exclusions may have applied to the claim, 
Admiral was wrong to void the policy. He therefore recommended that Admiral reinstate the 
policy and remove any records of voidance, and pay to Mr H a further £250 compensation. 
Admiral did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My colleague carefully explained the relevant provisions of the law and how these apply to 
decisions to void a policy. Their explanation was clear and cogent, and neither party has 
disputed the explanation so I will not repeat it here. 
Admiral does, however, take issue with the investigators view that it did not ask sufficiently 
clear questions, or that Mr Hs answers constituted a qualifying misrepresentation. Admiral 
considers that the question will you be remaining at the property while the work continues 
refers to a policy holder sleeping at the property. 
This complaint centres on whether Mr H gave a reasonable response when asked questions 
during his call on 25 May 2021. He had contacted Admiral proactively, in order to comply 
with his policy requirements to let them know of any changes to his home. 
During that call, the agent asked about the work that was being done, whether planning was 
required, and how long the work was due to take. She recorded specific dates based on the 
outside range given by Mr H in response. 
She asked if he will be remaining while the work continues. Mr H answered yes.
I agree with my colleagues view that Mr H gave a reasonable answer to the question asked 
here. 
Admiral argues that the question implies that Mr H must sleep at, and intend to continue 
sleeping at, the property in order to answer yes. Admiral says that if Mr H had answered no, 
then if would have asked further questions to clarify when he would be there, and it would 
likely have declined to cover his home during the works. 
I do not agree with Admirals argument and I consider that if Admiral needed to know where 
Mr H planned to sleep, then it should have asked him explicitly. I agree that the question, as 
phrased, was open to interpretation and it appears that Mr H intended to be, and indeed 
was, present at the property during the day while work was taking place. The evidence 
shows he was working there and left with the contractors at the end of their working day on 
the date of the incident. I do not consider that this was misleading, or was a misrepresentation.
I appreciate that consumers need to take care when answering questions from insurers, but 
equally insurers must take care to ask specific questions which are unambiguous if the 
answers are central to the decision to offer cover. 
I therefore agree with my colleague that Mr H did not make a qualifying misrepresentation 
and that Admiral was wrong to treat it as such and to void his policy. 
It follows then, that as I think that Admiral was wrong to cancel the policy, I also agree with 
the investigator that Admirals decision to cancel Mr Hs alternative accommodation was 
wrong.
Consequently, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Admiral to take action to put matters 
right. 
Putting things right
I agree with my colleagues assessment that Admiral must remove the voidance decision 
and confirm this to Mr H by letter. It must also remove any reference to this voidance on any 
central databases. 
I also agree with Admiral should pay more compensation to Mr H to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him through its wrong decision. I agree that a further £250, to 
bring the total to £400, is appropriate. 
My colleague considered that another exclusion may apply to Mr Hs claim and noted that Mr 
H had been able to pursue his losses via the contractors indemnity insurer. I do not 
necessarily agree that an exclusion would apply, and I would also expect Admiral to now 
reconsider any claim from Mr H, based on the remaining policy terms. If Mr H is unhappy 
with any further decision from Admiral, he is free to complain to Admiral and then (if 
required) to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
Reinstate Mr Hs policy and confirm this to him by letter;
Remove reference to this voidance decision from any central databases; 
Pay to Mr H a total of £400 for his distress and inconvenience; and
Reconsider any claims from Mr H in line with the remaining policy terms.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman