DRN-3693989
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, credit card account charges and 
interest have caused financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr K says Halifaxs credit card account interest and charges have caused him financial 
hardship. He says Halifax hasnt treated him fairly when in financial difficulties and would like 
all interest as well as charges refunded. Mr K says he told Halifax that he had lost his job in 
around 2014 to 2015.
Halifax says charges and interest were applied in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions. It says Mr K managed his account appropriately and there were about £72 in 
charges over the period. Halifax says Mr K spoke to it in 2015 but ended the call and it tried 
to contact him again. It says when Mr K brought this complaint to it in 2019 it gave details of 
its specialist team that could assist but he hasnt made any contact with it.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it and thought interest 
and charges were applied in line with agreed terms and conditions. The investigator thought 
Halifax had tried to assist Mr K but couldnt do anymore when he didnt make contact with it 
or answer the calls to him.
Mr K doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Halifaxs account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mr K would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
interest will be charged if an account balance is not repaid in full each month and explains 
the charges that may be applied such as for a late payment. I make clear to Mr K that its not 
our role to comment on the interest rate itself. I can see that interest was charged by Halifax 
as the balance was not repaid each month and that on occasions charges were made for 
about £72. So, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or made a mistake by applying the charges 
or interest and find they were correctly applied in line with those agreed account terms and 
conditions.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I can 
see that Mr K contacted Halifax about his position in 2015 but the call ended and despite 
Halifax trying to speak to him there was no further contact until 2019. I can also see that in 
2019 Halifax correctly offered Mr K the opportunity to speak to its specialist debt team about 
his position, but I cant see any record that Mr K has done so. So, Im satisfied that Halifax 
has tried to assist Mr K, but it would be up to him to speak to Halifax. And I think there is little 
Halifax can do in circumstances where Mr K is making regular monthly payments but hasnt 
contacted it.
Overall, I find the charges, which I think were very limited, and interest were correctly applied 
and so I cant fairly order they be refunded as Mr K would like. No doubt if Mr K is in financial 
difficulties now, he will speak to Halifaxs specialist department. I make clear that I cant see 
what else Halifax could do here and cant see that it ought reasonably to have realised Mr K 
was in financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman