DRN-3551124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. In November 2020, they booked a trip with intended departure and return dates 
of 13 December 2020 and 9 January 2021 respectively. 
Mr and Mrs F decided to extend their stay and changed their return flight to                    
24 January 2021. The airline cancelled that flight. Mr F contacted AXA, and it agreed to 
pay for additional medication. Mr and Mrs F subsequently booked several return flights, 
which were cancelled by the airline. Mr and Mrs F say that they spoke with AXA before 
booking each flight. Mr and Mrs F also booked additional accommodation. 
On 19 February 2021, AXA told Mr F that it would provide cover until 24 February 2021. 
Mr and Mrs F complained about that. They said theyd previously followed AXAs advice 
and booked flights for 28 March 2021 - which was the next available flight to a 
convenient UK airport - and arranged accommodation. AXA reviewed the matter and 
found a flight departing on 1 March 2020. Mr and Mrs F didnt take that flight. They said 
that it landed too late in the evening and wasnt to a convenient UK airport. 
Mr and Mrs F complained to AXA about their claim. AXA said that cover would end on    
1 March 2020  the date of the flight it had identified. But it said that it hadnt explained 
to Mr and Mrs F that they should have tried alternative airlines and airports to return to 
the UK as soon as possible. AXA paid Mr and Mrs F £125 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs F subsequently returned to the UK on 28 March 2021, to a 
different airport than the one from which theyd departed. 
AXA paid Mr and Mrs Fs claim for travel disruption, medication, car hire and 
accommodation costs from 24 January 2021 to 1 March 2021. It also paid the difference 
in the cost of the flights booked for 24 January 2021 and the 1 March 2021 flights.
Mr and Mrs F say that AXA authorised all the flight and accommodation bookings they 
made but then changed its position. Mr and Mrs F want AXA to pay for their 
accommodation, car hire and medication costs after 1 March 2021 to the date of their 
actual return, the cost of additional medical insurance and Covid-19 tests and taxi costs. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said:
On balance, its likely that AXA confirmed that Mr and Mrs F should book the 
flight for 28 March 2021 and it didnt discuss Mr and Mrs F returning via different 
airlines to a different airport. But on 19 February 2021, it corrected its errors and 
told Mr F that it expected him to return on the next available flight via other 
airlines to other airports. 
It was reasonable for AXA to expect Mr and Mrs F to return home via another 
route and airline to another airport and to take the flight on 1 March 2021. 
Mr and Mrs F could have asked the airline and accommodation provider for a 
refund for flights and accommodation booked for after 1 March 2021. 
Mr F now says he asked the accommodation provider for a refund and his 
request was refused. As Mr and Mrs F had the use of the accommodation after   
1 March 2021, AXA isnt required to reimburse Mr and Mrs F for the 
accommodation costs after that date. 
AXAs calculation of the difference in flight costs was fair. 
AXA isnt obliged to reimburse Mr and Mrs F for the costs of Covid-19 tests and 
quarantine costs. 
AXA has now agreed to pay the costs of a taxi from the airport to Mr and Mrs Fs 
home, with interest. 
The compensation AXA had already offered was fair.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
The investigator said that they are obliged to keep their costs to a minimum, but 
AXA refused to cover any costs after 1 March 2021.
Their accommodation costs were prepaid with no option of a refund. And its 
likely that theyd only get a voucher if they cancelled the flight theyd booked. 
They always intended to use this service to assist in recovery of their losses but 
there was a risk that we would find in favour of AXA.
They cant understand why wed look more favourably on the accommodation 
being paid for but empty after 1 March 2021 and the later flight unused. 
They booked and paid for the accommodation following AXAs approval and got 
a better price for a longer booking but AXA refuse to accept responsibility for the 
accommodation costs after 1 March 2021. 
The additional Covid-19 testing was also required before 1 March 2021, so AXA 
should cover that cost.
This wasnt an extended holiday; they are out of pocket and AXA should pay their  
expenses.
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs F said but didnt change her view.           
Mr and Mrs F asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr F in particular has strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully and taken it all into 
consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither he nor Mrs F will take as a 
discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central issue in the case, that is, whether 
AXA treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly in withdrawing cover after 1 March 2021.  
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Section 13: Travel Disruption Cover
[] 
On the way home
6. We will pay You up to:
a) £5,000 for Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) 
and accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of Your pre-booked travel 
and accommodation (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and breakfast, self-
catering or room only) that You cannot claim back from any other source. 
b) £200 for the cost of emergency replenishment of Your prescription medication if Your 
existing supplies run out after Your scheduled return date.
c) if You have to make alternative arrangements to return to Your Home or stay longer 
outside of Your Home Area as a result of:
i) The Public Transport on which You were booked to travel to Your Home Area 
including connections being cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours, diverted or re-
directed after take-off; or
[]
7. If the Public Transport on which You were booked to travel to Your Home Area 
including any onward connecting flights is cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours We will 
pay You £30 for the first 12 hours delay (unless Your Trip is three nights or less when the 
number of hours delay is reduced to six hours) and £20 for each full 12 hours delay after that 
up to a maximum of £250 providing You return to Your Home Area on the next available 
suitable Public Transport (this will help You pay for telephone calls made and meals and 
refreshments purchased during the delay).
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think that AXAs offer to 
consider the taxi fare on the return trip, subject to the policy terms, and pay interest on that 
amount is fair and reasonable. So, I wont ask it to do any more. I say that because:
Mr F says that AXA approved their accommodation and replacement flight for 28 
March 2021. So, he wants AXA to reimburse him for the costs of accommodation and 
associated costs -  such as car hire and medical costs -  up to that date. Recordings of the phone calls between Mr F and AXA arent now available. So, I 
cant know with any certainty what was said and, in particular, whether AXA 
confirmed cover for additional accommodation up to 28 March 2021. Where things 
are not clear, and evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I 
make my findings on what I think is most likely to be the case. I take into account the 
evidence available to me and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
On balance, I think that AXA told Mr F that he could book the flights for                    
28 March 2021. Mr F has provided an e-mail from AXA dated 26 January 2021, 
which says that he should continue with the flight booking. I understand that e-mail 
refers to the 28 March 2021 flights. Mr and Mrs F subsequently booked 
accommodation in line with their new return flights. I think AXA made a mistake as it 
intended to tell Mr and Mrs F that they should attempt to return home at the earliest 
opportunity via any reasonable route. 
In cases like this where an insurer has made an error, we dont proceed on the basis 
that the incorrect or incomplete information is the true position. We look at the effect 
of the error on the parties. 
In this case, AXA corrected its position during the phone call on 19 February 2021, 
when it said that Mr and Mrs F should return earlier and identified an earlier return 
flight. There were further exchanges and AXA identified a flight on 1 March 2021.    
Mr and Mrs F objected to that flight, as it landed in the UK at a late hour and was 
further away from their home than the airport of their departure. But in the particular 
circumstances of this case, and bearing in mind the context, which included the 
general travel difficulties at that time, I dont think that those objections meant that 
AXA should have continued cover under the policy and found another flight for        
Mr and Mrs F. AXA wasnt obliged to continue cover until theres a flight available 
that lands during the day time or to the same airport from which Mr and Mrs F 
departed. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to withdraw cover under the policy from      
1 March 2021, as it had identified a suitable return flight for Mr and Mrs F on that 
date. It follows that I dont think that AXA is responsible for Mr and Mrs Fs additional 
insurance costs with a new provider from that date. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Fs position is that if they returned before                     
28 March 2021, theyd have suffered a loss of the accommodation costs, which they 
werent guaranteed to recover in any subsequent claim or complaint. Mr F says that 
he spoke with the accommodation provider and asked for a refund at the relevant 
time, but the accommodation provider refused. He didnt mention this either to AXA 
at the time of his complaint or to this service until he was responding to the 
investigators view. Theres no written exchange between Mr or Mrs F and the 
accommodation provider about a request for a refund. Based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think I can safely conclude that Mr and Mrs F took all reasonable steps to 
recover accommodation costs after 1 March 2020. 
I think that AXA corrected its position on 19 February 2021. Mr and Mrs F chose to 
decline AXAs invitation to book the return flights for 1 March 2021. Instead they 
chose to remain at their destination until 28 March 2021 and use the accommodation. 
AXA isnt responsible for that. As AXA had corrected its mistake and Mr and Mrs F 
chose to have the use and benefit of the accommodation up to 28 March 2021  and, 
as Ive said above, havent shown that they took reasonable steps to recover the accommodation costs - I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to bear 
those costs.  
Mr and Mrs F have referred to alternative scenarios but Im looking at what actually 
happened, so Im not going to comment on or speculate about what might have 
happened in different circumstances.  
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. Theres no 
basis on which I can direct AXA to cover the cost of Covid-19 tests as thats not an 
expense thats covered under the policy.
AXA has now agreed to consider the taxi fare from the UK airport to Mr and Mrs Fs 
home on the return trip, subject to the policy terms. Its also agreed to pay interest 
on that at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of the claim to the date it 
makes the payment. I think thats fair and reasonable. Thats because                   
Mr and Mrs F would have incurred additional travel costs to get home even if theyd 
taken the flight on 1 March 2021, as it also landed at a different airport from which 
they departed. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA should reimburse Mr and Mrs Fs return taxi costs, subject to 
the policy terms, and pay interest on that at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of 
the claim, to the date it makes the payment, as its now offered to do.  
My final decision
My final decision is that AXAs offer is fair and reasonable, and I dont direct it to pay any 
more than its already paid or offered to pay.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman