DRN-3144126
The complaint
Ms B complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) did not do enough to 
protect her from falling victim to a scam; and that they failed to take prompt action in 
recovering her funds. Shed like the bank to reimburse her loss. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 18 March 2021, Ms B fell victim to an HMRC scam. She was called by someone claiming 
to be from a UK crown court. The person said Ms B had an outstanding tax liability and if she 
didnt make payment, they would start legal proceedings against her. 
Ms B was tricked into sending a total of £3,192 to two different accounts through her online 
banking. She was then asked to make a further payment, at which point she became 
suspicious. After discussing the matter with a colleague, she concluded shed been the 
victim of a scam.  Ms B called Northern Bank to try to stop the transfers. But she was told 
that the two payments had already left her account. Northern Bank contacted the beneficiary 
bank on the same day to try and recover the funds, unfortunately, no funds were recovered. 
Ms B didnt think Northern Bank had treated her fairly by not refunding the money shed lost. 
She complained they ought to have identified the large transfers out of her account and 
given her a call to warn her about such scams which she thinks wouldve prevented her loss. 
Northern Bank has said they took the appropriate actions once Ms B made them aware of 
the scam. They also said they wouldnt provide a refund as the payments were authorised by 
Ms B and they didnt consider them to be unusual for her account. 
The investigator looking into the complaint agreed that Northern Bank didnt need to refund 
Ms Bs loss. In summary, he said he didnt think the payments out of her account were 
particularly unusual or suspicious. So he wouldnt have expected Northern Bank to have 
intervened. He was also satisfied Northern Bank took prompt action to try and recover 
Ms Bs money. 
Ms B didnt agree with the investigator and maintained her payments were unusual which 
ought to have prompted Northern Bank to make enquiries with her and provide adequate 
warnings about scams. As Ms B didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. I know Ms B will be disappointed, so let me explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances here Im required to take into 
account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
To begin with its not in dispute that Ms B authorised the two payments totalling £3,192 to 
the scammers through her online banking and without any interaction with Northern Banks 
staff, albeit as the result of a scam.
So, the starting position at law is that Northern Bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customer authorises in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, unless they had reasons to be 
concerned that Ms B might have been at risk of financial harm.  
I need to decide if Northern Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms B when 
she made the two payments of £1,497 and £1,695 and whether it should have done more 
than it did before allowing the payments through. I also need to decide whether Northern 
Bank did all they should in respect of their efforts to recover the funds after Ms B reported 
the scam.
Ive reviewed Ms Bs account history from when she opened the account in December 2020 
to when she made the two payments on 18 March 2021 to determine if these were what I 
consider to be unusual or out of character for her account. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded they were.  
Northern Bank have to strike a balance between processing payments in line with their 
customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual activity. A bank cant become 
involved in every transaction. The two payments were larger than other payments Ms B 
commonly made from her account. But even after the payments there was still a healthy four 
figure balance in the account. And whilst the payments would have been to new payees, it 
isnt unusual for customers to occasionally instruct slightly larger payments from time to time 
for one off or larger expenses. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think the payment instructions were so unusual 
that Id reasonably expect Northern Bank to have had concerns or that they should have 
intervened before releasing the funds. And as Ms B didnt speak to or interact with Northern 
Bank at the time of making the payments, I dont think the bank missed an opportunity to 
prevent her loss in this way. 
Ive also looked at what Northern Bank did when they were alerted to the scam by Ms B. I 
can see that Northern Bank contacted the beneficiary bank very promptly. And having 
received a response from the beneficiary bank that no funds remained to be returned, 
Northern Bank informed Ms B of the same. It is unfortunate no funds were recovered but 
sadly it is a common feature of such scams that funds are often withdrawn very quickly. Im 
satisfied Northern Bank did all it could to try to recover Ms Bs funds. 
I know Ms B will be disappointed with my outcome and Im very sorry she lost her money to 
a scammer. But it would only be fair for me to direct Northern Bank to reimburse her loss if I 
thought they had failed in a way that had either caused the loss or prevented its recovery. I 
dont think they did, and so I cant fairly ask them to do more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman