DRN-2083312
The complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr F took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 1997. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I've made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr F had to agree to take it out. Mr F 
says he wouldnt have taken out PPI voluntarily, only if hed understood it to be mandatory. I 
cant know what was said in the meeting, there are no meeting notes or records available, 
and Halifax doesn't have any paperwork from the sale. But that's not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago it was. I have thought carefully about what Mr F has said 
about the sale, but I have to take into account that it was over 20 years ago and how this 
might affect what he now remembers. Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
conclude Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr F didnt agree to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr F, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. I 
know he feels that he didnt need it. But based on what I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was suitable. Mr F says he was entitled to six months' full pay and six 
months half pay if he was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits 
and for up to 12 months. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover so would have 
allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial 
stability at a difficult time whilst not working.
Mr F said he was a member of his employers share save scheme, but this isnt suitable 
alternative protection. He most likely would only been able to sell the shares at certain times 
and the value was not guaranteed. Mr F also said he was in good health and his job was 
secure, but PPI protects against a change in such circumstances. He was borrowing a large 
sum over a long period, secured on his home. So the effects of not keeping up the 
repayments could have been serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr F if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr F the clear and complete information he needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. I don't know when the cost was made clear. But the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed out 
the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr F doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve changed his mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr F has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman