DRN-2046271
The complaint
Mrs H complains Shelby Finance Ltd (Dot Dot Loans) lent her money she couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
Mrs H took out an instalment loan with Dot Dot Loans. The details for this loan are:
Date amount instalments monthly 
repaymentRepayment date
29 September 2017 £400 6 up to £125.51 10 January 2020
When Mrs H complained to Dot Dot Loans that the loan wasnt affordable it didnt agree. It 
says it was entitled to rely on the information Mrs H gave about her income and outgoings, 
and when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loan was affordable 
for her. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Hs complaint should not be upheld. She says Dot 
Dot Loans carried out proportionate checks for the loan and so it didnt do anything wrong. 
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators view and said it should have conducted a thorough 
check. If it did, she says it would have noticed she had missed payments and defaulted on 
other credit. As both parties are still not in agreement, the complaint has come to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Dot Dot Loans did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs H. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Mrs H had left over each month. Dot Dot Loans also used a credit 
reference agency to gather some more information about Mrs Hs financial situation at that 
time although it has not been able to provide any documentation or the results from this.
Mrs Hs loan was for £400 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the highest repayment amount 
being £125.51. Dot Dot Loans says she told it she was earning £2300 and declared 
expenditure of around £1100. Dot Dot Loans then increased this figure after it conducted its 
credit check as it says it saw additional credit commitments. It increased Mrs Hs expenditure 
to £1523. This left Mrs H with Disposable income of £777. Dot Dot Loans says the credit 
agency check was satisfactory although again, I havent been able to see what it says it saw 
at the time. 
I can see the monthly repayment was a small proportion of Mrs Hs declared disposable 
income, the instalment amount was low, and this was her first loan. So, for those reasons, I 
am satisfied that the checks carried out by Dot Dot Loans for this loan were proportionate.
Mrs H has said that Dot Dot Loans should have seen she was in financial difficulty at the 
time with missed payments and defaults and not lent to her as a result. Dot Dot Loans has 
confirmed that it used Credit Reference Agencies as part of its affordability assessment but 
as I have already said, it has not given much detail about this. There wasnt any requirement 
for it to carry out detailed credit checks  just that it needed to conduct proportionate checks. 
And as Ive said above, I think that proportionate checks would have shown that the loan 
was affordable for Mrs H based on what she told them for the reasons I have already given.
Mrs H says that Dot Dot Loans should have looked into her financial circumstances further 
and not agreed to lend to her. She also says she was unemployed at the time. But Dot Dot 
Loans was entitled to rely on the information Mrs H gave them about her employment as well 
as the level of her income and expenditure. And overall, Im not satisfied that there was 
anything which should have made it think that she wouldnt be able to afford to repay the 
loan, or which ought to have prompted them to carry out more detailed checks.
In conclusion, I consider the affordability checks that Dot Dot Loans made on Mrs Hs loan 
were proportionate and sufficient. So, I cant say now that it was wrong for Dot Dot Loans to 
give this loan to Mrs H. And so, I cant require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman