DRN-3097032
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the support offered by Barclays Bank UK Plc when her COVID-19 
payment deferral was ending. Miss C is also unhappy with other aspects of the service 
provided by Barclays.
What happened
In early 2020 Miss C lost her job. In April 2020 she had a three-month COVID-19 payment 
deferral approved on both her credit card accounts (account 1 and account 2). Under the 
terms of this arrangement, Miss Cs minimum payments for April (backdated), May and June 
2020 were set to zero but interest continued to be added to the outstanding balance. 
On 14 July the payment deferrals were extended by a further three months - to cover July, 
August and September 2020. 
Miss C asked Barclays near the end of the first payment deferrals to suspend interest being 
charged and also to refund interest charged since March 2020. She also requested a pay 
down plan to pay off the remaining balances over a number of years. 
Barclays asked Miss C to complete an income and expenditure form and agreed to 
temporarily suspended interest for 30 days. 
Barclays say they didnt identify it as an account that had been in persistent debt and didnt 
agree to Miss Cs request to a paydown plan or a reduced interest rate. For account 2, 
Barclays identified it as an account in persistent debt in December 2020.
Miss C was unhappy and raised a complaint with Barclays about a number of issues. They 
partially upheld the complaint and accepted that there had been instances of poor service 
whilst they had been handling Miss Cs accounts. 
Barclays paid Miss C £200 in compensation and then increased this to £300. Barclays 
refunded interest totalling £393.49. Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss C referred her 
complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
As a resolution, Miss C wants all interest from the period she wasnt working refunded and 
waived going forward, either all interest to be waived for 12 months or to be put on a lower 
interest rate of 6.9%. She wants to be put on a persistent debt pay down plan that wont 
impact her credit file and her credit file amended for October and November 2020. Miss C 
also wants an explanation for why an identity check was carried out and an apology and 
compensation for her experience.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As Miss C 
didnt accept the investigators recommendations, the complaint has now been referred to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
Miss C, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Im sorry to hear about the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had on Miss Cs health and 
employment. As Miss Cs complaint has several different aspects, for ease Ive included 
headings below.
Miss C is unhappy that Barclays completed an identity check that may have breached 
GDPR. Whilst Ive not seen supporting evidence that this is the case or that Miss C has lost 
out as a result of the check being completed, as shes already indicated that she will take 
this matter up with the Information Commissioners Office, I wont comment further on it in 
my decision. I also wont comment further on the allegation of unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending made by Miss C as shed need to raise this issue with Barclays in the first instance. 
The COVID-19 payment deferrals
Its positive that Barclays approved Miss Cs COVID-19 payment deferral requests and later 
extended them at her request.
Im satisfied that Barclays followed the guidance set out by the regulator - The Financial 
Conduct Authority (The FCA) when implementing the deferrals. The FCA set out in their 
guidance:
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably 
expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus.
Miss C is aggrieved at being charged interest during the deferrals, but I dont find that 
Barclays have done anything wrong in this regard as they followed the correct guidance. 
The payment deferrals were designed as a short-term support measure to allow customers 
some time to adjust and respond to the financial impact that the pandemic had on them. 
Suspending interest wouldve been at Barclays discretion, but there was no requirement to 
do so under the payment deferral guidance.
Ive also kept mind that whilst Miss C wasnt working at the point where the payment 
deferrals were ending, most other realistic support options would have meant potentially 
adverse information being reported to the credit reference agencies. Given what Ive seen 
about Miss Cs preference to avoid this happening, on balance, I cant fairly say that 
Barclays extending the payment deferrals was an unfair or unreasonable decision and it 
allowed Miss C more time to get back into work.
Further support offered by Barclays 
Miss C has argued that Barclays havent offered her tailored and flexible support after the 
payment deferrals ended. At this point shed received the maximum number of months the 
support allowed.  Whilst its correct that Miss C hadnt fallen into arrears and she was very 
clear that she didnt want to if at all possible, it was at this point that the contractual 
repayments needed to restart. Ive also considered what other support Barclays offered 
Miss C.Barclays looked at Miss Cs circumstances in greater detail in the form of an income and 
expenditure assessment. But they have said it showed that Miss C wouldve been unable to 
maintain her minimum monthly repayments. 
Whilst I understand Miss Cs reasons for wanting a pay-down plan (so it wouldnt be 
recorded on her credit file), Miss C wasnt eligible for this. Barclays have explained that such 
an arrangement would be offered when an account was in persistent debt for 36 months or 
more. Under the relevant rules, persistent debt is defined as 
when a consumer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve repaid 
towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 months.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont find that Barclays have done anything wrong in this regard 
as Miss Cs accounts werent classed as being in persistent debt (for 36 months) at that 
point. A letter was later sent to Miss C in December 2020 explaining that one of her accounts 
was in persistent debt.
Barclays offered Miss C the option of a formal repayment arrangement. Miss C rejected this 
and explained that it could have a negative impact on her credit file which could in turn affect 
her ability to find employment. Whilst I empathise with Miss C, I dont find that Barclays did 
anything wrong by offering her this option. Barclays would have a responsibility to accurately 
report information to the credit reference agencies and failing to do would be irresponsible of 
them. 
It may not have been the tailored help that Miss C requested, but it was a tailored attempt to 
try and help Miss C avoid her financial situation on these accounts worsening. Ultimately, 
Miss C wanted help and support from Barclays, but also didnt want it impacting her credit 
file.
Miss C has also made reference to a previous reduced interest rate that was later 
withdrawn. Barclays have explained why that rate was offered and why it was then 
withdrawn. Shes also referred to being charged two different interest rates on her two credit 
card accounts. But Barclays can make a commercial decision about the rates they offer 
customers and its not something I can fairly direct them to change. 
The late payments by Miss C
Miss C says that it was Barclays error that meant her payments were late in October and 
November 2020. But I cant fairly say this was the fault of Barclays as payments were due on 
time both months - regardless of whether or not a complaint was ongoing. 
Following the late payments, Barclays had a duty to accurately report information to the 
relevant credit reference agencies. Although Miss C feels that the reporting of this 
information will negatively impact her employment prospects, I didnt find that Barclays have 
done anything wrong in their reporting because the payments were late. 
Other issues raised and the service provided by Barclays 
I appreciate that Miss C wanted a figure from Barclays showing how much total interest 
shed paid as she felt it was excessive. Barclays have said they didnt provide the exact 
figure, but instead provided Miss C with copies of her credit card statements going back a 
number of years. Im satisfied that this would have allowed Miss C to calculate how much 
interest shed paid. Ive also kept in mind that Ive seen no evidence that Miss C wasnt 
provided with monthly account statements that showed how much interest was charged.Miss C specifically requested a reduced interest rate of 6.9% and referred to previously 
being granted this in 2017. Ive thought about this, but its important to say that Barclays 
werent obliged to offer this reduced interest rate to Miss C. Barclays accept that their agent 
made an error in a phone call with Miss C and wrongly told her shed be eligible for a 
temporary interest rate reduction. 
Whilst its disappointing that Miss C was given inaccurate information, Im pleased to see 
Barclays have offered Miss C £300 total compensation for the service received, they also 
suspended interest temporarily as well as refunding a total of almost £400 in interest 
charged. I consider these actions fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Conclusion
Barclays treated Miss C fairly and reasonably on the whole and has paid fair, reasonable 
and proportionate compensation to make up for its shortcomings. It follows Im not requiring 
it to take any further action to resolve this complaint.
Although my decision will disappoint Miss C, it brings to an end what our Service in trying to 
informally resolve this complaint between Miss C and Barclays can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman