DRN-2417893
The complaint
Ms D and Mr G complain that Zenith Insurance Plc excluded a claim under their pet
insurance policy because it said their cats illness was a result of it having been spayed.
What happened
Ms D and Mr G had pet insurance for their cat with Zenith. In June 2019 the cat underwent a
left ureteronephrectomy for a ureteral obstruction, for which they made a claim.
Zenith declined the claim stating the problem was linked to the cat having been spayed, and
that the policy excluded claims for any costs resulting from vaccinations, micro chipping,
spaying, castration, mating, pregnancy, giving birth.... or any secondary or related
complications from these actions.'
Ms D and Mr G complained to Zenith about its decision to decline the claim, but Zenith
maintained its decision. It said the cats clinical history said an adhesion that formed after
she was spayed in 2017 may be the cause of the ureteral obstruction.
After it had declined the claim, Zenith received a letter from the vet, arguing as there was no
ligature seen I don't think one can assume that it is related to the ovariohysterectomy. [The
cat] would have acutely deteriorated sooner after ovariohysterectomy if it was associated
with acute ligation of a ureter. Adhesions will form generally after any abdominal surgery but
do not usually cause a problem. Another possibility is that external penetrating trauma could
also potentially lead to formation of an intra-abdominal adhesion.
Zenith explained the vet had previously confirmed adhesions could start to form shortly after
abdominal surgery but may not cause a problem until further down the line, and, even
knowing the length of time that had passed since her being spayed, the vet had initially felt a
post-operative adhesion was the most likely cause of the recent issues. It also argued there
was no reference to an external penetrating trauma in any of the clinical notes.
Ms D and Mr G werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. They explained the
vets comments about the adhesions having been caused by the cat being spayed two years
prior were made following the initial consultation, yet she later said the adhesions werent
necessarily the cause.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She accepted the vet had originally said
an adhesion post ovariohysterectomy was the likely cause of the problem, but shed also
said it was a rare and unfortunate complication but not related to the surgery itself. She felt
this supported the later comments made by the vet in the post-declinature letter from and,
consequently, she thought Zeniths decision to decline the claim was unfair. She
recommended that Zenith reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy.
Zenith has asked the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, arguing the vets
comments were contradictory.
My provisional findings 
I explained the policy doesnt provide cover for any costs resulting from preventative or 
elective treatments including, but not limited to, vaccinations, spaying. I was satisfied this 
term is fair and that its clearly worded. I was also satisfied there was no dispute the cat was 
spayed in 2019. What was in dispute is whether the available evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that the issue the cat experienced in June 2019 was a result of the surgery it 
had in 2017.
I noted its clear from the clinical notes that the vet initially believed the issue was linked to 
the cat having been spayed in 2017, with the notes stating an adhesion that formed after it 
was spayed in 2017 may be the cause of the ureteral obstruction. After the surgery was
completely, the vet noted it looks like adhesion from spay may be cause of ureteral
obstruction.
I also noted 17 June 2019, the vet who performed the surgery said a left 
ureteronephrectomy was performedthere had been no history of trauma and so an 
adhesion forming secondary to ovariohysterectomy is a possibility. Ovariohysterectomy was 
performed in June 2017. I have explained to the owner that adhesions can form after any 
abdominal surgery.
And on 19 June 2019 the vet wrote I have explained that it is likely that an adhesion post
ovariohysterectomy is likely the cause of the problem, which can occur after any abdominal
surgery. I have explained that this is rare and an unfortunate complication but not related to
the surgery itself.
Zenith had based its decision to decline the claim on the vets opinion that the problem was
related to the surgery the cat had in 2017, which I didnt think was unreasonable. But,
following its decision to decline the claim, the vet wrote to Zenith, and having said an
adhesion post ovariohysterectomy was the likely cause, she also said it was a rare
complication and didnt usually cause a problem. I agreed with Zenith that this was
contradictory.
However, the vet who performed the surgery said there had been no history of trauma and
so an adhesion forming secondary to ovariohysterectomy is a possibility. And there was
nothing in the notes which supported there having been and external trauma, or any other
cause. I accepted the vet also said an adhesion was rare and not related to the surgery, but 
I thought that meant it was a possible outcome, as opposed to something having gone 
wrong with the surgery.
The vet also suggested the cat would have deteriorated sooner if the issue was associated
with the 2017 surgery. But Zenith had said the vet originally told it the surgery may not
cause a problem until a later date and I noted theres no mention of timing having been an
issue in the notes.
I accepted the cause of the problem had been called into question, but both vets who treated
the cat initially suggested the ovariohysterectomy was the most likely cause. And, in the
absence of any evidence to support an alternative cause, I was satisfied the problem was 
most likely linked to the 2017 surgery and that Zeniths decision to exclude the claim was 
fair.
Developments
Ms D and Mr G have indicated theyre not happy with the findings in my provisional decision. 
They believe that just as there is a possibility that the problem could having been caused by the cat having been spayed, it could also have been linked to genetics, as cats do tend to 
have a higher instance of kidney problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ms D and Mr Gs further comments and, as Ive said above, I accept the 
cause of the problem has been called into question. But there is no evidence to support 
there having been an alternative cause and I remain satisfied that the problem was most 
likely linked to the surgery the cat underwent in 2017. Therefore, my final decision will be the 
same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman