DRN-3668960
The complaint
X has complained that when they speak to representatives at HSBC UK Bank Plc over the 
telephone they keep referring to them with the wrong title.
What happened
X has a bank account with HSBC and identities as non-binary and transgender. They have 
told us that they requested they be referred to as Master in their interactions with bank staff. 
X has said in their opinion Master can be used as a gender-neutral term and is their 
preferred title. 
X has explained that between March and May 2022 they needed to call HBSC for various 
reasons relating to their bank account and on multiple occasions the staff members they 
spoke to failed to address them correctly. They have said these mistakes were upsetting and 
that they needed to make multiple complaints because the business continuously got their 
title wrong. 
HSBC accepts that mistakes were made and that despite adding notes to Xs account 
confirming the bank had agreed to refer to them as Master when they called, on occasion 
this didnt happen. It apologised for the errors and paid a total of £450 compensation over 
three different complaints between March and May 2022. 
X remained unhappy with HSBCs response and said the mistakes kept happening. They 
believe HBSC is worth billions of pounds and that it should pay them more compensation 
because their time is also worth money. Unhappy with the amount of compensation paid by 
the bank they brought their complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Xs complaint already. She found that mistakes had 
happened, and that HSBC had failed to address X in the manner it had agreed it would. 
However, she also found that on occasion the tone X had taken with staff members when 
these mistakes were made, or perceived to have been made, was inappropriate. Having 
listened to multiple calls between X and HSBC staff members she felt that the compensation 
already paid was sufficient and that the business didnt need to do anymore in relation to Xs 
complaint. 
X disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision and so 
the complaint has been passed to me to consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that this decision only relates to the problems X experienced 
when staff members used the incorrect title between March and May 2022. I understand that 
since the investigator issued her view in August this year X has raised other complaints 
against HSBC and has been in contact with this service again. So, it is important I explain up 
front that this decision wont address all of the problems X is currently having with the bank, 
just those covered by the view they received earlier this year. 
It's unclear exactly when X requested their title be changed to Master but they have 
explained they saw a poster in a branch of HSBC letting transgender and non-binary 
customers know it was possible to have their titles and pronouns changed to gender neutral 
options if that was their preference. During this visit X spoke to a staff member and 
explained they would like their title changed to Master, which the bank agreed to do. 
Its really important that when businesses offer to use customers preferred pronouns, and 
not make gender assumptions, that they follow through and use the correct terms. So, its 
disappointing to hear that on multiple occasions after Xs title was changed staff members 
continued to address them incorrectly. X has told us this was very upsetting, and I dont 
doubt that was the case.  
HSBC has accepted that mistakes did take place and has apologised for that. In recognition 
of these mistakes, it paid X £450 compensation. X doesnt feel that is enough and has said 
they want more compensation as they believe HSBC is a very wealthy organisation and can 
afford to pay them more than it has. They have said they needed to take time off work, pay 
for multiple phone calls, and spent hours on the phone to HSBC in regard to their 
complaints. 
Our investigator asked X to provide evidence of the money and time they spent calling 
HSBC. She explained if X could provide us with phone bills detailing the time and cost of the 
calls and this would be taken into consideration. However, X never provided any additional 
evidence of this expense, so I can only base my findings on the same evidence the 
investigator did. 
Having done that, I agree that some staff members did make mistakes. And HSBC 
responded by arranging for X to have a different phone number they could call that would 
put them through to a specialised team who would have access to all the relevant 
information and know how to address them correctly. And in addition to this, as mentioned 
above, compensation was also paid for the upset caused. 
I appreciate that compensation is a very personal thing and I know that X was upset by the 
calls they had with HSBC. However, the purpose of this service is not to punish businesses 
and the amount of compensation that could be awarded for any mistake is reached by 
considering the impact of the mistake and the business response to it. 
In this case I think HSBC acted quickly to try to prevent the mistake from happening again. 
Clear notes have been added to Xs account and theyve been linked in with a specialised 
team to reduce the chances of them dealing with too many different staff members, thus 
reducing the chance of the mistake reoccurring. In addition, HSBC did pay X compensation 
and also apologised. And while X has told us that the amount of compensation wasnt 
sufficient Ive not seen any evidence of why this is the case, or any expense X incurred as a 
direct result of the mistakes made by HSBC during the phone calls. 
Therefore, I think HSBC has done enough in relation to Xs complaint and I wont be asking it 
to do anymore.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Xs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman