DRN-2865680
The complaint
Mr L says Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited was responsible for giving 
him unsuitable advice to invest in a single managed fund in his personal pension.
Mr L is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Mr L met with an adviser from Sun Life (then Liberty Life) in November 1993. At the time of 
the advice he was self-employed. He didnt have access to an employer pension scheme 
and his objective was to save for his retirement. Mr L was advised to take out a personal 
pension, which he did.
The plan, which started in February 1994, was designed to build a fund that would provide 
Mr L with pension benefits (a tax-free lump sum and/or an income). His selected retirement 
age was 65. His monthly contribution was £40 00 (before tax relief) and he wanted his 
contributions to increase automatically by 5% each year.
Sun Life says Mr L wouldve been provided with product documentation explaining how the 
plan worked. His contributions were invested 100% in the Blue Chip Pension Fund. The plan 
was unit linked, which meant that his contributions, along with the contributions of other 
policy holders, purchased units in a professionally managed fund.
Mr L met with Sun Life again in October 1995. Some of his circumstances had changed, for 
example his employment, but his main objective remained retirement planning. He wanted to 
increase the contributions to his pension plan.
Mr L was advised to take out a top-up plan. He wanted to make monthly contributions 
before tax relief of £40. These were invested 50% in a Managed Fund 3 and 50% in a 
Unitised With Profits fund. In 1996 Mr L increased his contributions to £56 a month.
Mr L stopped making contributions to both of his pension plans in September 2001. And he 
took his pension benefits under the Open Market Option in December 2002.
FR had several concerns about what happened to Mr L. It said:
All of our client's contributions of were invested in a single, complex and high-cost managed 
fund. This was unsuitable as it meant a lack of diversification and therefore an unnecessary 
concentration of risk, as well as unnecessary costs. There were several funds available. Our 
client's contributions could and should have been spread across different funds to reduce 
risk.
Sun Life rejected Mr Ls complaint. It set out the process that wouldve been followed during 
the sales process and said:
Your attitude to risk was recorded as cautious to balanced and you chose to invest in the 
Blue Chip fund in 1993 and the Unitised with Profits and Balanced Managed funds in 
1995/1996, which I believe were appropriate funds as personal pension plans are long term 
investments and you had 21 years until your retirement age of 65 in 1993. Our advisers were 
able to provide details of the funds available in order for clients to make their section of 
funds, however they were not authorised to give advice about the actual fund selection.
The Investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. She thought the fund he was invested in for his 
first plan in 1994 was in excess of his risk appetite. Sun Life disagreed and so his case has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the events here happened over 25 years ago, its perhaps inevitable that I dont have 
access to all the information Id like. Wheres theres conflicting information about what 
happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions of the Investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows that 
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.
At the time of the advice in November 1993 Mr L wanted to save for his retirement. He 
wasnt making regular contributions to any other pension at the time. He was self-employed 
and didnt have access to an employer scheme. I think the advice to contribute to a personal 
pension plan was suitable.
Mr L was provided with an illustration and key features document which explained how the 
plan worked and the charges applicable. So I think he was made aware of the charges 
applicable and that the performance of his pension wasnt guaranteed.
Mr L invested 100% of his contributions in the Blue Chip Fund. Sun Life dont hold any of the 
product brochures from the time of the sale to show the fund choice that was available at the 
time. It said Mr L wouldve been provided with details of the funds available and whether 
they were low, medium or high risk.
Although Sun Life said it wasnt responsible for advising Mr L on his fund choice theres no 
record of why the Blue Chip Fund was selected. He didnt select the default fund so its likely 
that some discussions of which fund would be appropriate took place.
Mr L had a cautious to balanced attitude to risk at the time of the advice. The asset 
allocation of the Blue Chip fund was UK Equities. As his contributions were being made to 
this single fund, there was a lack of diversity in this approach. 
So, I agree with the Investigator when she concluded the investment strategy likely exposed 
Mr L to a higher level of risk than was appropriate in the circumstances. I say this because 
theres no evidence he was an experienced investor. Based on the information available 
from the time, I also consider his capacity for loss to be limited.
Sun Life shouldve made Mr L aware of the risks associated with his fund selection. But 
theres no record of any discussion about why the Blue Chip Fund was chosen. It had a duty 
of care, and it hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it fulfilled this obligation.When Mr L took out a top-up plan in 1995 and increased his contributions again in 1996 his 
payments were invested 50% in a Unitised With Profits Fund and 50% with a Managed fund. 
I think these choices were in line with his attitude to risk because his investment was spread 
across different asset classes and industry sectors.
Putting things right
I dont think Mr L was invested in the appropriate fund when he bought his Sun Life personal 
pension in 1994. In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put him as 
close as possible to the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice.
I think Mr L wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
So, I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to compare the 
performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value 
is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Sun Life should also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Sun Life should pay into Mr L's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into his pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Sun Life is unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if hes likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Sun Life should provide the details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sun Life considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how 
much its taken off. Sun Life should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Mr L wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr L's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Any additional interest would be for Mr L being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I require Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put matters right as Ive indicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman