DRN-1958775
 
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Ltd (Aviva) has dealt with a claim under her 
car insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2018, Miss W was involved in a car incident. Her car collided with an animal 
which had escaped from a nearby farm. 
Avivas claim notes said at the time of the incident the third party (a farmer), accepted liability 
and said he would pay for Miss Ws hire car. Aviva told Miss W that she didnt have car hire 
cover as part of her policy, but they would provide her with one for 24 hours so she could 
continue with her journey.
Aviva accepted the claim and the third partys insurer later disputed liability. Aviva decided to 
settle the claim by making a cash payment and they recorded the claim as a fault. Miss W is 
unhappy because she doesnt believe she was responsible for the incident. As a result, she 
said shes incurred expenses related to hiring a car, sustained personal injury and suffered 
loss of earnings. She estimated her expenses to total £2,000 and she wants Aviva to cover 
these costs but they said theyre not responsible for doing so. 
Miss W complained to Aviva. They said theyve recorded the claim correctly as a fault and 
they wont cover Miss Ws additional costs because she didnt have hire car or legal cover as 
part of her insurance policy. However Aviva accepted they couldve handled the claim better 
by managing Miss Ws expectations by explaining that although they intended to pursue the 
claim as a non-fault, liability might be disputed. They also said they couldve kept her better 
updated as to how theyd decided to settle the claim. In light of both issues, Aviva offered 
£150 compensation to Miss W.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Miss W referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They said Aviva had recorded 
the claim correctly as a fault and theyre not responsible for the additional expenses because 
these levels of cover werent part of Miss Ws policy. However, the investigator believed 
Avivas offer of £150 compensation wasnt enough because it didnt take into account the 
multiple instances where Aviva gave misleading information to Miss W and the extent of 
distress this caused. To put things right, the investigator asked Aviva to:
reimburse one days car hire - as this was originally offered at the time of the 
incident;
pay an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss W.
Miss W said the further award of compensation wasnt enough to cover her additional 
expenses and she wanted Aviva to at least cover the cost of the hire car. Aviva also 
disagreed. They said they didnt feel they had provided misleading information. They 
maintained that they told Miss W that she didnt have hire car cover and she would have to 
recover the other costs from the third party and/or their insurers directly. They also said they offered one days car hire as a goodwill gesture but they didnt take any further action with 
this because she accepted the third partys offer to pay for the hire car at the time of the 
incident. 
In May 2020, I issued my provisional decision and I said I intended not to uphold Miss Ws 
complaint for the following reasons:
The claim recorded as a fault
Firstly it is worth saying that it isnt my role or that of this service to determine liability and 
who was at fault for an incident following a car insurance claim. Instead I must consider 
whether Aviva has considered the liability in Miss Ws claim, fairly, reasonably and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms of the policy say:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under the 
policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own benefit to 
recover any payment we have made under this policy. 
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
This is a term that is commonly found in car insurance policies and essentially it means the 
insurer, in this case Aviva, can settle the claim as they see fit. They dont need the 
agreement or consent of the policyholder  Miss W.
At the time of the incident, Aviva said given the circumstances they would look to pursue the 
claim as non-fault, however the third partys insurer disputed liability. They said their 
policyholder, the farmer, couldnt be held responsible for the animal getting onto the road 
because a poacher had cut the fence which had led to its escape from the farm.
Aviva said although the police attended the scene of the incident, a crime report wasnt 
created, only an incident report. They also said the farmers fence was fixed quickly after the 
incident so they werent able to obtain evidence about what had happened. Given the 
unusual circumstances and to prevent further animals from escaping, I can understand why 
this would be the case. However this meant there was little detail or evidence about the 
damage to the fence and what or who caused it. This is likely to explain why Aviva sought a 
legal opinion on Miss Ws claim. The solicitors advised that if the claim were to go to court, it 
is unlikely the outcome would be found in Miss Ws favour. Based on this legal opinion, 
Aviva decided not to contest the matter in court and I believe it was reasonable for them to 
do so.  
Insurers like Aviva will record claims as a fault where they are unable to recover all their 
costs and this is what happened in Miss Ws case. Recording a claim as a fault doesnt 
necessarily mean Miss W is at fault or to blame for the incident. Therefore, I am satisfied 
Aviva has recorded the claim correctly and theyve acted in line with the terms of the policy.
Hire car
Miss W said she wants Aviva to cover the cost of the hire car. Aviva said the supply of a hire 
car is an optional level of cover which Miss W didnt purchase at the time of renewing her 
insurance policy.Ive considered Miss Ws insurance policy schedule. This document sets out what her policy 
provided which may include additional features or optional levels of cover that she had 
purchased. Having reviewed the schedule, Miss W didnt purchase hire car cover, meaning 
she wasnt entitled to it under the terms of the policy so Aviva werent required to provide her 
with one.
Ive considered Avivas call notes taken at the time of the incident. They said they told Miss 
W that she didnt have hire car cover. Miss W also spoke to Aviva the following day because 
she was concerned that she didnt have this cover. Again Aviva confirmed this was the case 
and said if she hired a car or was seeking personal injury expenses, she would have to 
recover these costs directly from the third-party and/or their insurer. On this basis Im 
persuaded Aviva made it clear to Miss W from the outset that they wouldnt be responsible 
for covering the cost of a hire car.
Although this was the case, I understand at the time of the incident, Aviva offered to provide 
Miss W with a hire car for 24 hours to allow her to complete her journey as a gesture of 
goodwill. However Miss W chose not to accept this because the third party said he would 
pay for her hire car. 
However, the investigator believed Aviva should reimburse Miss W for one days hire car 
because this is what they had offered at the time of the incident. However I disagree. I dont 
believe it is reasonable for Aviva to do this because it was simply an offer of goodwill and 
Miss W decided to accept the third partys offer instead. As Aviva werent obliged to offer this 
in the first place, I believe it was fair for them to take no further action.
As Miss W didnt have hire car cover on her policy, I cant fairly say Aviva has done anything 
wrong by not covering this cost. Im satisfied theyve acted in line with the terms of the policy. 
Moreover, Im not persuaded Aviva misled Miss W into thinking it would pay for a hire car 
following the incident.
Other costs
Miss W wants Aviva to also cover the costs related to her personal injury and her loss of  
earnings. Having considered her policy schedule and read the rest of the terms, I cant see 
any parts of the policy where Miss W could claim to recover these costs. So while I 
appreciate she has incurred these expenses as a result of the incident, it would be unfair to 
expect Aviva to cover them. 
Compensation
As mentioned above, Aviva offered £150 compensation for how theyd handled the claim. Im 
satisfied Aviva told Miss W from the outset about the hire car and pursuing the additional 
costs from the third party. Aviva had already admitted they couldve better managed her 
expectations about liability and kept her updated about how theyd decided to settle the 
claim. Beyond this, I cant see any other occasion where Aviva mis-led Miss W. Theyve 
offered compensation for this and I believe this was a fair amount to recognise their poor 
claim handling. So I wont be asking Aviva to pay any more above the £150 theyve already 
offered as compensation to Miss W.
Other
I know Miss W said she thought she had hire car and legal expenses cover. It is worth 
saying if she is concerned about how her policy was sold, this would need to be raised as a 
new and separate complaint against the business who sold her the policy. I cant consider 
this aspect under this complaint.Response to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide me with any further submissions before I reached my final 
decision. Miss W accepted my provisional decision, Aviva hasnt responded. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither party have asked me to 
consider any further submissions, Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons detailed in 
my provisional decision. As previously offered by Aviva, they should pay £150 compensation 
to Miss W for how they handled her claim (if not paid already).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman