DRN-2743005
The complaint
Mr D complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr D was given two loans by Loans 2 Go. He borrowed £650 in May 2019, but cancelled the 
loan four days later. He paid no interest or charges on that borrowing. He then borrowed 
£1,000 in August 2019 that was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments. Mr D appears to 
have faced problems repaying that loan and a balance remained outstanding when he made 
his complaint.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Since Mr D had not paid 
any interest or charges on the first loan, he didnt look into that loan any further. But he didnt 
think that Loans 2 Go should have given the second loan to Mr D. So he asked Loans 2 Go 
to put things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. It thought that its checks before the second 
loan suggested that Mr D would be able to repay his borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, 
as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr D accepts my decision it is legally 
binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ds complaint. At the outset I think it is useful to 
reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses 
for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service 
looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we 
decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the 
problem hadnt occurred.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Mr D required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr D undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr D.
As I explained earlier, should I find something has gone wrong, Id ask a business to put a 
consumer back into the position theyd have been if the mistake hadnt occurred. In the case 
of lending I would generally expect a lender to refund any interest or charges that a 
consumer had paid. On loan 1 I cannot see that Mr D repaid anything other than the 
principal hed borrowed when the loan was cancelled. So it doesnt seem to me that he has 
lost out as a result of Loans 2 Gos decision to give him this loan. So even if I thought the 
loan had been lent irresponsibly there would be nothing for Loans 2 Go to do in order to put 
things right. So there is no need for me to consider this loan any further. 
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed the second loan. It asked 
him for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors. Loans 2 Go then amended the 
expenditure that Mr D had declared, revising it upwards quite considerably.
Mr D was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it is reasonable that Loans 2 Go 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ds financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that 
objective. I think the checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. Sometimes that will lead a 
lender to gather further information. Or it might even lead the lender to reject a loan 
application outright. And that is what I think should have happened here.
The information that Mr D provided to Loans 2 Go about his finances suggested that his 
normal monthly expenditure, including his other credit commitments, totalled £420. But 
Loans 2 Go did some further checks, including looking at Mr Ds credit file and concluded that his actual expenditure was likely to be more than £1,300. That was a significant 
difference and should have caused great concerns to the lender.
That sort of situation is considered in the regulators rules contained in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (otherwise known as CONC). CONC section 5.2A.36 says;
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not 
been truthful in completing the application in relation to information relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment. 
I think the information that Loans 2 Go gathered showed that Mr D had failed to declare the 
true extent of his monthly financial commitments. And that might therefore reasonably have 
led to Loans 2 Go rejecting his application for credit.
But Loans 2 Go used its own assessment of Mr Ds income and expenditure. So it might 
have been reasonable to proceed with his application based on that information. When 
Loans 2 Go looked at Mr Ds normal expenditure it thought it prudent to add a buffer of 
around 10% to allow for any unexpected expenditure that might arise. But doing so meant 
that Mr D would have almost no disposable income left each month after repaying the loan. 
And he would need to make those repayments for a period of 18 months. I think this too 
should have led Loans 2 Go to conclude that it might be difficult for Mr D to sustainably 
repay the loan.
The credit check that Loans 2 Go performed suggested that Mr D might be facing problems 
managing his finances. It showed that, in less than three months since hed repaid his earlier 
loan, Mr D had taken two other short-term loans. Both loans were still outstanding. It also 
showed that Mr D had not made any repayments on a much larger loan he had taken out 
around three months before. The lender had reported that it had entered into a repayment 
arrangement with Mr D. And the credit score that the credit reference agency reported for 
Mr D had fallen from 375 to 171 between the two loan applications hed made to 
Loans 2 Go.
So taken together I think Loans 2 Gos checks clearly showed that Mr D was facing serious 
problems managing his money. I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude 
that Mr D would be able to repay this loan, or any other borrowing, in a sustainable manner. 
So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given the second loan to Mr D and so needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr D in August 2019. So to put things 
right Loans 2 Go should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Mr D has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ds loan account as Ive directed results in Mr D effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ds loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr Dremove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ds complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman