DRN-3275474
The complaint
Ms W complains that Zenith Insurance plc made her an offer of £3700 for her car, when it
was written off after an accident, but later withdrew the offer due to an advisory on her MOT
certificate regarding her brakes.
What happened
Ms W has motor insurance for her car with Zenith. Her car was damaged in an accident on
22 December 2020 and Ms W made a claim on her policy.
Ms W has told us shes a teacher. During the pandemic shes been teaching key workers
children and needs her car to get to school. She has difficulties making calls during school
hours. So some of the calls to Zenith were made by her mother on her behalf. For ease of
reference Ive referred to all calls as having been made by Ms W.
On 23 December 2020 Zenith sent two letters to Ms W. The first acknowledged that she
thought she was responsible for the accident, and confirmed Zenith agreed with this.
The second said that from the damage shed described it appeared her car might be
uneconomic to repair. So theyd be arranging for their salvage agent to collect it and an
inspection and assessment would be arranged. Once this had been completed and the claim
validated, Ms W would either be notified her car was repairable and an approved repairer
would be instructed, or shed be told the car was beyond economic repair, and a settlement
payment would be issued for the pre-accident value less her excess.
On 8 January 2021 Zenith wrote to Ms W saying that their engineer had inspected her car
and considered it to be beyond economic repair. And that their engineer had given a pre-
accident value of £3700 for the car. Ms W was asked to confirm that she accepted this
amount for the car, subject to the deduction of her £250 policy excess.
Zeniths letter included a list of what Ms W needed to send to them if she accepted the offer.
And they requested details of her bank account so payment could be made to her.
On 9 January 2021 Ms W called Zenith as she was unhappy with the offer theyd made. She
was asked to send them details of a similar car she said shed seen advertised at over
£1000 more than their valuation.
Ms W says she called Zenith several times in January 2021 asking for an update. She sent
the vehicle advert theyd requested to them on 29 January 2021.
She raised a complaint with Zenith on 4 February 2021, due to the lack of progress. She
called Zenith on 5 February 2021 and eventually spoke to someone who told her that the
independent engineer had identified an issue with her cars brakes. She was also told that
the original case handler and team leader would be chased, and told the matter was urgent.
Ms W spoke to Zenith again on 10 February 2021. On this occasion she was told that the
engineers report had been obtained on her car due to the advisory on her MOT in January
2020, regarding her cars brakes. She asked Zenith to put their offer back on the table as
there had been errors in how theyd handled the claim. And she said that they shouldnt have
made her an offer until theyd received the engineers report. Ms W was told that Zenith
might offer her £75 for the delay in responding to her. She was also told a safeguarding had
been put on the car and it would be disposed of.
After this call Zenith sent Ms W a letter, dated 10 February 2021, saying that theyd
completed their enquiries into the accident. And they were no longer able to deal with the
claim under the terms of her policy. They said that when she reported the accident, shed
told them that the car travelling in front of her braked, she braked, but was unable to stop in
time and collided with the rear of vehicle ahead of her.
Zenith went on to say that when their independent engineers assessed Ms Ws car, they
found her left-hand front disc was substantially worn and the brake pad had 0mm remaining.
And the right-hand front disc was also substantially worn with the brake pad having 1-2mm
remaining.
They said they couldnt cover the damage to her car as she hadnt kept her car in a
roadworthy condition which was in breach of her general policy conditions. Zenith also told
Ms W that they reserved the right to pursue her for recovery of their costs arising from the
claim, including the other drivers damages and costs.
Ms W also spoke to the salvage agents Zenith had instructed to try and get confirmation of
the salvage category her car had been placed in. They were unable to provide this
information. But they were able to tell her that the car would be left with them for 30 days,
and after this shed be charged for storage.
Ms W had further conversations with Zenith about her car during February 2021. During
one of these calls, on 19 February 2021, she was told the independent engineers had been
instructed on 23 December 2021. Theyd examined the car on 6 January 2021 and Zenith
had received their report on 18 January 2021.
There were further conversations during March 2021 about the complaint. And on 19 March
2021 Zenith wrote to Ms W advising her they werent upholding her complaint about
declining her claim. They said theyd instructed engineers as Ms W had advisories about her
brakes on her January 2020 MOT. They accepted that thered been a delay in reviewing the
engineers report and apologised for this. But due to the condition of her brakes, her car
wasnt in a roadworthy condition, so the decision to decline her claim was correct.
Zenith accepted that they could have handled her claim and explained the process better.
So they offered Ms W £100 for the poor customer service shed received.
Ms W then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt
recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said shed looked at whether it was
reasonable for Zenith to decline the claim. Shed considered the Insurance Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), which says an insurer shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim,
and the terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy.
One of these conditions talks about taking care of your car, and says: -
You and all other drivers must ensure that:
The car is kept in a roadworthy condition.
The car has a current MOT certificate if applicable.
All reasonable steps are taken to ensure the car has been protected against loss ordamage.
The insurer may examine the car at any time.
Our investigator felt that the policy clearly explained the circumstances in which the insurers
wouldnt provide cover.
She also looked at the independent engineers report dated 6 January 2021. They found the
cars brakes were still in a poor condition, despite the advisory about the brakes in Ms Ws
January 2020 MOT certificate. Ms W has told us that she didnt realise there was an issue
with the brakes, as she knows nothing about cars. But our investigator felt it was reasonable
for Zenith to decline the claim.
Our investigator also considered the customer service Ms W had received from Zenith. She
accepted that Zenith didnt keep her updated and she had to keep chasing them, but she felt
the £100 compensation theyd offered for this was reasonable.
Ms W didnt accept our investigators opinion.
After our investigator provided her opinion, we asked Ms W to let us know whether she
went ahead and bought the car shed put a deposit on. And if she did how she paid for it.
Shes told us that she did buy the car, but she had to borrow money from her family, which
shes still paying back in small instalments.
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 December 2021. In it I said: -
The timing of Zeniths settlement offer to Ms W of 8 January 2021 is hard to explain. I say
this as theyd instructed an engineer to examine the cars brakes in December 2020, the
inspection was done on 6 January 2021 and although Zenith told Ms W they didnt receive
the report until 18 January 2021, the report seems to have been sent to them by the
engineers on 7 January 2021. Given Zeniths concerns about the condition of Ms Ws car I
cant understand why they made her an offer, before theyd reviewed the engineers report.
Theres nothing in Zeniths letter of 8 January 2021 to suggest that the offer is conditional on
receipt of a satisfactory report on the condition of the cars brakes. So I can understand why
Ms W is unhappy about how her claim has been handled. But Ms W didnt accept Zeniths
offer as she felt it was too low.
I think it was entirely reasonable for Zenith to obtain an engineers report on the condition of
Ms Ws cars brakes. Shed told them that in the accident shed been unable to stop when
the car in front of her braked. Her MOT certificate, dated 15 January 2020, has the following
advisories in respect of her brakes: -
Parking brake only just passed.
Front brake disc worn, pitted or scored, but not seriously weakened. Both sides
(1.1.14 (a) (ii)).
Front Brake pad(s) wearing thin (1.1.13 (a) (ii)).
Both rear brakes binding.
The advisories on the MOT certificate state monitor and repair if necessary.
Ms W has said she didnt realise there was a problem with her brakes, as she knows nothingabout cars. Ms Ws policy requires her to keep her car in a roadworthy condition. In addition
to this as the driver of a vehicle shes responsible for her own, her passengers and other
road users safety.
Even if she knows nothing about cars and how they operate, I think there was enough
information in the advisories on her MOT certificate, that she should have been concerned
about the safety of her brakes. And if she didnt understand what the advisories meant, she
should have made sure she found out.
Ms W hasnt said that after the MOT she had her brakes checked. At the time of the January
2020 MOT the cars mileage was recorded as 58,556 miles. By January 2021, when it was
inspected, it had done a further 7000 miles and the engineer noted that no apparent
maintenance had been carried out. So Ms W had driven for almost a year with brakes that
were in a poor condition.
The engineers report gives more detail about the condition of the cars brakes. It says: -
LH front disc was shown to have worn substantially and the brake pad was found to have
fully worn with 0mm remaining.
RH front disc was shown to have worn substantially and the brake pad was found to be fully
worn with approximately 1-2mm remaining.
Rear drum brakes were corroded which appears to be consistent with not being maintained,
which could result with the rear brakes binding as stated within the MOT advisory.
Due to significant frontal impact damage the engineer was unable to open the bonnet and
inspect the brake level fluid. He considered the car to be unroadworthy at the time of his
inspection.
Given the condition of the cars brakes I think it was reasonable for Zenith to say the car
wasnt roadworthy at the time of the accident. So Im persuaded that they were entitled to
decline Ms Ws claim as she hadnt kept her car properly maintained, which she was
required to do under the terms and conditions of her policy.
But I dont think Zenith have provided Ms W with the level of customer service wed expect.
She was obviously anxious to have a decision about her claim, and yet she had to chase
Zenith numerous times. And Zenith made her an offer for her car, when they knew there
were concerns about the pre-accident condition of her car, which would impact on whether 
they accepted her claim.
Where a business has made an offer in error, which they later withdraw based on further
evidence, this doesnt mean well say they must stand by the offer. Zenith made a mistake
making Ms W an offer before theyd considered the engineers report. Ms W hadnt accepted
this offer because she thought it was too low.
But almost a month passed after the offer was made before Ms W was given any indication
that Zenith were going to withdraw their offer, and not accept her claim. This is despite her
chasing them for updates. The engineers report is quite clear about the pre-accident
condition of her car, so its unclear why Zenith took so long to consider and make a decision
about the report.
Because of the way Zenith handled Ms Ws claim shes suffered distress and inconvenience.
Zenith shouldnt have made her an offer for her car when they had concerns about her claim.
But it wouldnt be right for me to say they should pay the sum they originally offered her forher car. Had she followed up on the advisories in her MOT certificate and had her brakes
checked and repaired, I dont think Ms W would be in the position where her claim has been
declined.
But she was made an offer for her car and she acted on this, putting a deposit on another
car. Had the offer not been made she may have acted differently. I accept that shes had to
borrow money from her family to help her pay for her new car. So I think shes entitled to
compensation for Zeniths poor handling of her claim and the distress and inconvenience this
has caused. And I dont think the £100 Zenith has offered is enough. Taking everything into
account I think the appropriate level of compensation is £350.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Ms Ws complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision Ms W has told us that she doesnt think the 
compensation Ive suggested is enough. But she hasnt provided any further comments or 
evidence. And Zenith have indicated that they accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand, given the offer Zenith made in respect of her car in January 2021, why Ms 
W isnt happy with the compensation Ive said Zenith should pay. But she hasnt provided 
any further evidence to allow me to reconsider the case. Because of this, and as Zenith have 
accepted what Ive said, I dont see any reason to review my findings.
So my opinion remains that given the condition of the cars brakes it was reasonable for 
Zenith to say Ms Ws car wasnt roadworthy at the time of the accident, and to decline her 
claim. 
But I dont think Zenith have provided Ms W with the level of customer service wed expect.
And because of the way they handled her claim shes suffered distress and inconvenience.
Zenith shouldnt have made her an offer for her car when they had concerns about her claim.
And Ms W acted on this offer, putting a deposit on another car.
Had the offer not been made she may have acted differently. I accept that shes had to
borrow money from her family to help her pay for her new car. So I think shes entitled to
compensation for Zeniths poor handling of her claim and the distress and inconvenience this
has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint about Zenith Insurance plc. And to put 
things right, I require them to pay her £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes suffered, as a result of their poor handling of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman