DRN-2653134
The complaint
Mr S complains that he got poor service from Metro Bank PLC (Metro).
What happened
Mr S had some accounts with Metro. In June 2020 he visited a Metro branch to open a new 
fixed rate savings account. 
Mr S complained  he said it took 20 minutes  this was too long. It shouldve only taken five 
minutes. The advisor asked intrusive questions, including the nature of his business. He 
wanted a screenshot copy of his statements and this also took too long.
Metro said theyd investigated what has happened. They said the advisor was doing the 
required checks they have to complete. And the screenshots of statements took some time 
to fit them all onto one document.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said it wasnt unreasonable to 
take 20 minutes to open an account. Metro were entitled to ask questions to complete the 
due diligence needed to open the account. She said the time taken to provide the 
screenshots of Mr S statement was due to the advisor trying to fit them into one document.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman looks at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Ss 
request to open a fixed rate savings account. We are not a regulator  we are an informal 
dispute resolution service. Typically, we look for situations where a business has made an 
error or did something wrong in dealing with a customer. Where a business has followed its 
processes and procedures  then usually, we cant say the business did something wrong.
Ive looked at and considered what happened here. Mr S wanted to open a fixed rate 
savings account  and he already had some of these. He said the process shouldve taken 
five minutes, particularly as he already had some similar products with Metro. But it took 20 
minutes  time he said he couldnt afford.
We asked for, and received a testimony from the advisor at Metro who dealt with Mr S. We 
also took evidence from Metro. 
Metro must complete various security checks when opening an account. These are 
regulatory requirements. Typically, among other things, they would include checking the 
identification of a customer and verification of their address. These are to prevent identity 
theft and fraud  things that are unfortunately fairly common in todays world.  The checks 
that Metro did in connection with Mr S request was for these reasons. This service cannot 
tell Metro exactly what their checks should be, or how they should carry them out  or how 
long they should take. Thats up to Metro. 
In the case of Mr S, I understand that the advisor wasnt confident that his form of ID actually 
looked like him on the day  so he wanted to double check that  and this took some time. 
Mr S might feel that these checks werent needed because he already had other accounts 
with Metro  and I can see that, but the fact is that this isnt always the case. And the checks 
any bank will do could also change from time to time. Metro also wanted to make sure their 
records were correct, so asked some extra questions  such as his employment. Its normal 
that any bank would do this  and this would typically happen any time a customer is in 
touch with them  whether in a branch or on the phone. 
Mr S also asked for a screenshot of his other accounts  the advisor needed to produce this 
 as he wanted to get them to fit into one document. This also took some time  and I note 
that this probably wasnt directly connected to the opening of Mr Ss new account  it was an 
extra request. But overall, I dont think that 20 minutes to open an account is excessive  
even though Mr S might feel it is.
Mr S told us that hes had a complaint about service at Metro upheld before, and 
compensation paid to him. But  every situation we review is different, and we treat each 
complaint as such.
I can appreciate that Mr S found his experience at Metro frustrating  but I cant see that 
they did anything wrong or made an error in what they did. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman