DRN-3097967
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC poorly handled his request for a payment 
freeze on his loan repayments.
What happened
Around March 2020, Mr K says he experienced difficulties repaying his loan due to the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. So he asked Tesco for a payment freeze. Mr K later found 
that adverse information had been recorded on his credit file because he hadnt made 
repayments for the months that followed his request. 
After querying this several times, Tesco eventually managed to correct the adverse 
information that had been recorded on Mr Ks credit file. By this point, Mr K had already 
complained to Tesco because the information wasnt corrected sooner. 
Tesco responded, explaining that it couldnt action Mr Ks request for a payment freeze 
straight away, so it wasnt started until July. So the missed payments for the months in 
between were reflected on Mr Ks credit file. Tesco said that Mr Ks credit file shouldnt have 
been impacted so, to put things right, it extended his payment freeze to five months (from 
April 2020  August 2020) and it paid him £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. Tesco also confirmed it had already requested an amendment 
to Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K remained unhappy and asked this service to look into the matter. Mr K says the 
adverse information negatively impacted a mortgage application and that he had to put the 
sale of his house on hold. One of our adjudicators agreed that Tesco had acted unfairly and 
concluded that the resolution Tesco had already put forward was a fair way to resolve the 
matter.
Mr K didnt agree  he says the compensation doesnt reflect the level of misery he 
experienced because he had to continue living in a house that he didnt want to live in. 
Because Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to carry out a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be asking Tesco to do anything more in relation to this complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant rules issued by the regulator at the time required firms to offer a payment 
freeze on loans and credit cards for up to three months for customers negatively impacted 
by the Covid-19 pandemic, and ensure customers using the payment freeze measures will 
not have their credit file affected. Mr K requested a payment freeze in March 2020 but Tesco 
didnt put this in place until three months later. As a result, the repayments that were missed 
during this period were recorded on Mr Ks credit file.
Tesco says it experienced delays at the time so it couldnt put the payment freeze in place 
straight away. Tesco accepts the payment freeze shouldve been in place sooner and, to put 
things right, it extended the payment freeze period from April to August. By doing so, Mr Ks 
account now reflects the payment freeze being put in place in a timely manner.
Tesco also acknowledges it couldve done more to resolve the issue of adverse information 
being recorded on Mr Ks credit file. It says it had a process in place to flag the issue as 
urgent  but this process wasnt carried out despite Mr K querying the issue several times. 
Nevertheless, Tesco confirms the amendment has since been processed on its end and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr Ks credit file hasnt been amended.
Tesco recognises the impact of its errors on Mr K and paid him £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. Had Tesco not offered compensation, this amount 
is within the region of what I wouldve asked it to pay anyway. I note Mr Ks comments about 
where he was living but I cant fairly say that Tesco is responsible for any additional distress 
Mr K suffered because he had concerns about where he was living at the time. Also, I 
havent seen anything to suggest Tesco had prior knowledge of Mr Ks concerns, so I 
wouldnt have expected it to provide him with additional support because of this. So I cant 
fairly conclude that Tesco should pay more compensation.
In summary, I share the adjudicators opinion on this matter. Its apparent that Tesco failed to 
properly put the payment freeze in place for Mr K and this in turn led to the adverse 
information on his credit file. However, in my opinion, the steps Tesco has taken to resolve 
the complaint puts Mr K back in the position he wouldve been in had Tesco done things 
right from the beginning.
My final decision
Im not instructing Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman