DRN-2675630
The complaint
Mr G1 and Mr G2 complain - in their capacity as trustees of a trust - that Caleb Roberts 
Financial Management Ltd (CRFM) didnt correctly advise them of the process to surrender 
an investment. This resulted in the trust receiving a lower surrender value than what the 
trustees had been led to believe.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties so I will not repeat them here. 
But the key facts are as follows:
Mr G1 contacted CRFM on 13 March 2020 as he was concerned about the risk of a 
stock market crash. He inquired about the value of the trust fund and also the 
process to surrender the underlying investments. 
He says he was told that the investments could be taken out of the fund immediately 
and that the value of the trust fund would be taken from the previous day's trading 
figures.
He was told by his adviser not to withdraw money from the fund due to the risk of 
missing out on any potential gains. He noted this advice but held the view that there 
was little chance of that happening.
The adviser emailed another business (B1) to ask for the most up to date valuation. 
He replied to Mr G1 by email on 16 March 2020 and stated that the trust value was 
now worth £133,927.61 but proceeded to recommend practicing patience. 
Mr G1 gave instructions on 16 March 2020 at 2.06pm to cash in the trust 
investments, on the understanding that the value quoted would be paid.
The adviser then called Mr G1 and again advised against surrendering the 
investments but he still wanted to proceed. Later that day Mr G1 called the adviser to 
ensure the withdrawal would be processed.
The adviser attempted to contact B1 without success and sent an email at 3.55pm 
confirming that the trustees wished to surrender the fund with immediate effect.
B1 contacted the adviser at 5.16pm and stated that the trades would be placed the 
following day on 17 March 2020. 
The surrender process took a few days and was eventually settled on 24 March for 
around £113,000.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 then complained to CRFM as they thought, in summary, that theyd 
been assured that the withdrawal would be made on the same day and that the trust 
would receive the value they were originally quoted. 
CRFM didnt uphold the complaint. They said they hadnt provided any guarantees 
regarding the surrender value, had advised against surrendering the investments and 
had passed on the instruction to sell the investments promptly.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 didnt accept CRFMs findings and brought the complaint to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she thought, in summary, that there 
was no evidence to suggest that Mr G1 and Mr G2 were given a guaranteed value. 
The final value couldnt have been predicted with any degree of certainty in advance 
and she didnt think the available evidence showed that they were informed this 
would be the case.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 didnt agree with her findings and made the following points:
The trust had suffered an unnecessary financial loss that could have been averted if 
proper professional standards were followed and correct information given at the 
appropriate times  especially a detailed explanation regarding the process of the 
surrender.
The adviser had chosen to completely deny informing Mr G1 that the money received 
on surrender of the investments would be based on the previous day's value at close 
of trading. Theyd hoped that telephone records would be available to prove what 
was said and it was very unfortunate that the calls werent recorded. However, they 
believed however that Mr G1s actions after the call of 13 March were sufficient 
evidence that the adviser said what theyd claimed.  
The absence of such phone recordings also didnt prove what the adviser had 
claimed to have said and made it impossible to assert more weight to either partys 
claims. 
The advisers use of the words "now worth" within his email of 16 March at 1.42pm, 
suggested he was advising Mr G1 in error that it was the figure that would be 
received in the event that the decision to surrender the investment was made 
immediately. 
The adviser didnt refute anything in his emails, despite a number of opportunities he 
had over the time period between 16 and 24 March where he could have answered 
any number of questions hed been asked or provided clarification to Mr G1s 
understanding of what the process would be. This suggested he did not understand 
the process himself.
The instruction to make the surrender was solely based on the assurance of the 
figure of £133,927.61 being received. The trustees had asked the adviser if it would 
be a good idea for them to come into his office to ensure everything went according 
to plan but he declined. If he had taken them up on this offer there would have been 
an opportunity for the trustees to rescind the instruction to surrender the investments 
if theyd been made aware of any of the following:
1. The fact that the investments were not going to be surrendered on that same 
day - 16 March - due to a lack of time remaining for trading.
2. The figure of £133,927.61 was not going to be the figure received.
3. It would actually take until the 24th March for the trades to settle.
4. The figure of £133,927.61 was not in fact an up to date valuation, but a 
valuation from a week earlier.
The adviser should have also ensured that he had Mr G2s consent before acting on 
Mr G1s instructions.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint, I will now explain why. Id like to 
firstly say that although my decision may not touch on every point Mr G1 and Mr G2 have raised, I have read and fully considered all their submissions. I think this complaint centres 
on whether or not Mr G1 and Mr G were not properly informed of the process to surrender 
the investment and if they were given any guarantees about the surrender value. 
With that in mind Ive reviewed the available evidence. It shows that Mr G1 was concerned 
about a possible stock market crash in March 2020. He made inquiries as to how he could 
surrender the investment to prevent the value falling. There appear to be several telephone 
conversations that were not recorded, so I have to consider not only the recollections of both 
parties but also any contemporaneous evidence from the time.
Mr G1 first contacted CRFM about his concerns on Friday 13 March 2020. He says he was 
told that the investment could be surrendered immediately, and the value would be taken 
from the previous days figures. He asked CRFM for up to date values and they emailed B1 
asking for the most up to date valuation. The figures were received on Monday 16 March 
and CRFM then notified Mr G1 of the values but advised him that he shouldnt surrender the 
investment.
Mr G1 replied shortly after receiving the email from CRFM and asked them to surrender the 
investment. He noted the advisers advice but said We think that it is best to act today as 
today's crash will wipe further value off the capital and based on our phone call the other day 
we will be able to take the values at the close of trading on Friday if we cash in these 
investments today. So, its evident that Mr G1s understanding at the time was that the 
surrender value would be the figure hed been quoted.
There was further correspondence later that day between Mr G1 and the adviser. I can see 
that the adviser forwarded an email from B1 to Mr G1 which explained that the cut-off point 
for that day had been missed and as a result the trades would be placed the next day. 
I think this should have put Mr G1 on notice that the surrender value may differ from figure 
hed been quoted. I say this because he said he was told that the value would be taken from 
the previous days figures. And given that another day had passed, then it follows that the 
value of the investment was likely to have fluctuated as it remained in the market.
Mr G1 emailed CRFM again on 16 March, specifically asking them to clarify if the surrender 
value would be the figure hed been quoted. CRFM responded the following day and said  
we await to hear of completion and final figure. In my opinion, this again shows that the 
surrender value was unknown and wasnt guaranteed.
There was further correspondence the following day on 18 March. I can see that CRFM 
forwarded an email from B1 to Mr G1 which said We will not know the value of surrender 
until all of the trades settle. The final trades are due to settle next week. I dont think that 
after receiving this email, its reasonable to suggest that Mr G1 and Mr G2 should have been 
aware that the surrender value wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr G1 then emailed CRFM asking Why are the trades not settling until next week when we 
have already requested the removal of the capital from the further risk of stock market 
crashes and understood that the money was already in the process of being sent within 3-5 
working days?
CRFM didnt respond so Mr G1 sent another email on 21 March asking them to reply. They 
eventually replied on 24 March and confirmed the final settlement value. 
I note that Mr G1 and Mr G2 have said they would have acted differently if theyd been told 
that the surrender process would take a few days. However, I think they were made aware 
on 18 March that all the trades hadnt settled and wouldnt do so until the following week, and also that the surrender value wasnt guaranteed. And after becoming aware of this, they 
didnt ask for the trades to be cancelled.
I appreciate that it would have been helpful if CRFM had provided a quicker response and 
clarification to the questions Mr G1 asked on 18 March. But I think its important to note that 
the economic climate and markets were volatile at the time and there was no way of knowing 
when they would start to recover. Theres not enough persuasive evidence to safely 
conclude that even if the adviser had told Mr G1 and Mr G2 that the settlement value wasnt 
guaranteed, they would have made a different decision. Given that they had declined the 
advice to not surrender and wait for the market to recover, and also their concerns about 
preserving the value of the investment, it seems more likely than not that their intention was 
to surrender.
Ive considered if CRFM acted promptly after receiving the instruction to surrender on 16 
March. Mr G1 has said he gave the instruction at 14:54 and I can see that CRFM relayed the 
instruction to B1 at 15:55 and asked for the investments to be sold down as soon as 
possible. Despite what Mr G1 and Mr G2 have said, I dont think a delay of an hour is 
unreasonable.
Ive also thought about if the adviser should have ensured that he had Mr G2s consent 
before acting on Mr G1s surrender instruction. Broadly speaking, the consent of all trustees 
is usually required for decisions relating to a trust. But from what Ive seen, Mr G1 was in 
contact with Mr G2 about the decision to surrender, his email to CRFM on 16 March said 
Thanks for the information, it is actually better than expected but as trustees of ****'s trust
fund me and Mr G2 are feeling that to leave the money where it is currently invested is too 
risky. We hold a pessimistic view regarding the world economic outlook over the next couple 
of months. We have noted that the FTSE 100 has crashed a further 7% so far today so on 
that basis we believe that our two best options to preserve and protect the capital are either 
to invest in very safe bonds or liquidate the money and place it in a savings account. 
Mr G2 has also confirmed that he had agreed to the decision to surrender based on what 
hed been told by Mr G1. I appreciate he thinks he may have acted differently if hed spoken 
directly to CRFM. However, given that he agreed to the surrender based on the information 
available to him at the time, Im not persuaded that he would have taken a different course of 
action. I think its more likely than not that the surrender would still have gone ahead.
So, having taken everything into account, I dont think I can fairly say that CRFM should pay 
the difference between the amount received upon surrender and the amount previously 
quoted.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G1 and Mr G2 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman