DRN-2282039
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has said it will no longer 
be providing her with personal accident insurance.
What happened
Ms W held a personal accident insurance policy, underwritten by Cigna. The insurance was 
renewable annually. The term of the individual policy was twelve months. 
In August 2019 Cigna wrote to Ms W to say that it would no longer be able to provide 
accident insurance and would not be offering a renewal of her policy. So, her cover would 
end when her current policy expired in March 2020.
Ms W complained to Cigna about its decision, which she felt was unfair. She said that shed 
held this insurance for a number of years and felt the premiums shed paid should be 
refunded.
Cigna said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it had taken a commercial 
decision to withdraw from this particular insurance market and would no longer be providing 
accident insurance policies to any customers  not just Ms W. And it didnt think it should be 
required to refund premiums previously paid, as it had provided cover.
Unhappy with this response, Ms W asked our service to look into her complaint. She felt that 
in addition to being unfair, Cigna was discriminating against her based on her age.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Cigna had done anything 
wrong. He felt it was entitled to decide to no longer provide this type of cover. And, as it 
wasnt providing the cover to any customers anymore, he didnt think Cigna had 
discriminated against Ms W, as she hadnt been treated differently to anyone else. He also 
didnt think it would be reasonable to require Cigna to refund the premiums paid, as Ms W 
had received the benefit of cover in exchange for those premiums.
Ms W did not agree with the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the insurance schedule for Ms Ws policy that was sent to her in 
February 2019. This makes it clear that the period of insurance is one year. The policy terms 
also say that this is an annual contract of insurance. This means, at the end of each policy 
year, both Cigna and Ms W have a choice about whether or not to renew the contract. 
The terms explain, in relation to renewals, that Cigna may offer Ms W the opportunity to 
renew the policy. But they also explain that it may not.
Based on this I think the information provided to Ms W by Cigna was clear in setting out that 
the policy had a set term and that it was not guaranteed that cover would continue 
indefinitely.
The terms go on to explain that one of the circumstances under which it may not offer 
renewal is an event that prevents us from continuing to provideyour policy. Cigna has 
explained that it has taken the decision to withdraw from this particular insurance market so 
cant continue to provide cover. The services or products that a business provides are for it 
to decide. It is entitled to change the range of products it provides, and this is a matter for its 
own commercial judgement  which our service cannot interfere with.
Ms W has indicated she thinks Cignas actions discriminate against her because of her age. 
But I dont agree. Ive seen nothing to suggest this. Cigna has explained that it will no longer 
be providing this product to any customers. So, I dont think Ms W has been treated 
differently from any other customers  either on the basis of her age or otherwise. 
Taking everything into account I dont think Cigna has acted unfairly by deciding not to 
renew Ms Ws policy.
I also think it gave Ms W reasonable notice of its decision. Cigna wrote to her in September 
2019 confirming that the policy would not be renewed but cover would continue until March 
2020  almost six months later. The amount of notice given allowed plenty of time for Ms W 
to make alternative arrangements to purchase other cover. Which I think is fair.  
Ms W has said she feels the premiums she has paid over the years for this insurance were 
wasted and that these should be refunded. The insurance was comprised of annual policies. 
The premiums she paid in each insurance period was for Cigna to provide insurance to her 
during that period. I havent seen anything to suggest Cigna did not provide the services that 
were paid for at the time. By the very nature of insurance, premiums are paid to cover costs 
should anything happen. It doesnt then follow that if no claim is made that premiums are 
returned. Ms W had the benefit of cover even if no claims  successful or otherwise  were 
made. 
So, while I know Ms W is disappointed that Cigna will no longer provide cover, I dont think I 
can reasonably require it to refund the premiums paid for services already provided by it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman