DRN-3339574
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that following the declinature of her claim under her horse policy with 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited, (NFU) it placed her on the 
fraud register and asked her to pay it £2,618.40 for legal costs it had incurred in investigating 
her claim. 
Mrs H is represented by her husband Mr H. But for ease of reference I shall just refer to Mrs 
H throughout. 
What happened
Mrs H bought her horse policy with a start date of 24 August 2020.  She made a claim for 
lameness in January 2021. Initially Mrs H said she thought the start of the lameness was 
around 4 September 2020. But she was told that was within the first 14 days of the policy 
starting and therefore not covered. So, Mrs H then clarified that she first noted the lameness 
on 21 September 2020. 
However, the vet history notes that on 25 August 2020 when Mrs Hs horse was being seen 
by a vet for a vaccination, the horses lameness was noted by the vet and flexion tests also 
confirmed lameness at that time. Therefore, given this was the day after the policy started 
this claim wasnt covered as the lameness was present within the first 14 days of the policy 
starting. Further given Mrs H changed the date, NFU were of the view she was deliberately 
changed the dates in order to be able to claim. NFU classed that as fraudulent activity given 
its terms and conditions of the policy and put Mrs H on the fraud register. 
It had also instructed solicitors and a barrister to confirm its view and the costs of this which 
NFU want Mrs H to refund it, in the sum of £2,618.40. Mrs H understood her claim wouldnt 
be paid but she thought it was unfair she was now on the fraud register and that it was also 
unfair for her to pay these legal fees when she was unaware they were being incurred. 
So, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought NFU hadnt done anything 
wrong in putting Mrs H on the fraud register, but she didnt think it was fair that Mrs H should 
have to pay these legal costs. Mrs H accepted this but NFU disagreed. Therefore, Mrs Hs 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint on the same lines as the investigator. That is, I 
do consider its fair Mrs H is on the fraud register, but I dont consider it fair that she refunds 
NFU these legal costs. Ill now explain why. 
And, given Mrs H now accepts both that her claim wont be paid and indeed she is on the 
fraud register, I will only concentrate on the issue of these legal fees which NFU wants Mrs 
H to repay. For the avoidance of any doubt I consider that NFU did nothing wrong with 
putting Mrs H on the fraud register. 
Mrs H phoned the NFU to lodge her claim for lameness and when asked when the lameness 
started, she said it was around 4 September. The NFU adviser explained the claim wouldnt 
be covered given that date was within 14 days of the policy starting. Mrs H called back later 
to explain she thought the lameness started on 21 September which then made the claim 
within the cover provided by her policy. 
With the claim form dated 10 February 2021, as per normal, the horses vet history was 
attached when it was sent to NFU by the vet.
The vet history starts on 23 July 2020 with a vaccination visit. The second vaccination visit 
was 25 August 2020. This clearly says the following:
Has been lame LH on and off. OK at walk and trot but marked lameness after flexion 
test. Was still lame on L [illegible] when performed on R leg. Hold foot rotated out. No 
obvious swellings or painful points. ? spavin. Adv.
So, from the time NFU received this claim form with the vet history, its clear there was a 
disparity between what Mrs H told NFU and what was written in the vet history.  This is very 
clear and very stark evidence that what Mrs H told NFU didnt match with the vet history. 
Insurers see this type of disparity on claims sadly, fairly regularly, and obviously ask for 
clarification from vet or vets and the claimant if required too. Often, they dont feel the need 
to even to do that, because vets are under a duty by their own regulators to provide 
accuracy in the vet history solely so that insurers can rely on it as being accurate as well.
So, NFU spoke with the vet who made this entry into the vet history. Sadly, I dont have 
evidence of exactly when NFU carried out all its varying enquiries with this vet the referral 
vet, the horses previous owner and indeed Mrs H. However, this vet confirmed what he saw 
on 25 August 2020 and recorded on the vet history was correct and confirmed that a referral 
to another vet would be necessary if the lameness didnt resolve. Which was indeed what 
happened. And its also clear from the referral vet that what he saw later in October 2020 
was a continuation of the same lameness. And very sadly, as it didnt resolve, the horse was 
put to sleep.
 
NFU has confirmed to us that it didnt use any outside agencies to deal with all these further 
investigations, as in talking to the vets, talking the horses previous owner or asking Mrs H 
further questions as it did all that itself. Ive looked at the legal advice NFU sought and note it 
didnt disclose the actual Counsels Advice. However, its solicitors did mention it via email 
some considerable time after its own initial report too which confirmed the solicitors advice, 
so I would question why Counsels Advice was sought as there was no irregularity with the 
vet history which cast any doubt on the matter anyway. Also, the legal advice didnt add 
anything further than what already known, namely that Mrs H didnt explain her horse was 
actually lame according to the vet on 25 August 2020, a day after this policy started. And 
that she changed the date so that her would be considered outside the 14-day limit. 
Specifically, there was no advice on what evidence to obtain or any other direction on 
evidence gathering within this legal advice either.
 
Clearly Mrs Hs lack of explanation of the vet visit on 25 August 2020 was dishonest non-
disclosure and first invalidates a claim and second, as its clear this policy, along with many 
other horse policies doesnt cover claims not caused by an accident within the first 14 days, 
shows the claim was excluded.  The vet verified the vet entry on 25 August 2020 too. Mrs H couldnt explain the matter properly other than she didnt think the vet visit on 25 August 
2020 was important, which is clearly wrong. This is very standard claim repudiation 
evidence, its not complex and nothing about it has any doubt. Therefore, I consider the legal 
advice wasnt necessary and was very disproportionate to the evidence there from the start 
on the claim form. This service would consider it very rare indeed that legal advice of this 
nature to even Counsels Advice when the vet history evidence is so clear. More so given 
the duties under which vets operate in recording the vet history.
More crucially in my view, I cant find anywhere where NFU put Mrs H on notice that she 
might be liable for legal fees as against other claim costs. Whilst the policy does indicate the 
policyholder might be liable for claims costs that doesnt always include legal costs in my 
view.
NFU referred to another case where this service upheld that a complainant should pay legal 
fees plus investigation costs. However, as NFU is well aware each case is decided on its 
own merits. The facts of that case were more complex than here, and NFU were tipped off 
about it being potentially fraudulent and proving it was fraudulent was far more complicated 
in that case. It also concerned motor repairs and wasnt concerned with any policy 
specifically for horses. Here in this case, the misrepresentation by Mrs H was simply there 
on the vet history evidence once the claim form was received, which I consider to be very 
straightforward indeed and see it regularly in the complaints I deal with.
So, I dont consider this legal advice was essential or added anything to what the evidence 
showed NFU from the start. I also havent even seen what Counsel wrote in his Advice 
which came some considerable time after the solicitors advice on the matter in any event. 
None of the legal advice affected the evidence already there and there was nothing that 
complicated about that evidence either. None of the evidence lacked clarity, there was 
simply no conflicting evidence at all except that Mrs H didnt tell NFU the truth from the start 
which could be seen from the outset given the contents of the vet history sent with the claim 
form.
 
So, for all these reasons and the particular facts of this case, I dont consider its fair for Mrs 
H to refund costs of legal advice to NFU.
My final decision
Therefore, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I now require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to waive any 
potential right it thinks it has for Mrs H to refund it its legal costs in this matter in the sum of 
£2,618.40, given it was excessive and unnecessary.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman