DRN-4449010
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr S bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr S into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
werent.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
15-year loan term. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Mr S agreed with our investigators view of the complaint, but Shawbrook didnt agree. 
Shawbrook disagreed for the following reasons:
Shawbrook says that while the repayment table suggested the system would be self-
funding from the outset, the performance table made clear it would take some time to 
recover the full cost of the system. 
It also added that Mr S had the system removed and re-installed so this could have 
caused the system to underperform. 
It said it would make an offer to compensate Mr S for lost generation up to the point 
the panels were removed by the consumer (via his own contractors). 
As the case couldnt be resolved, the case was passed to an ombudsman.
In my provisional decision of 20 October 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook made an offer to settle the complaint which it 
says is in line with my recommendation. I understand Mr Ss representative has asked 
Shawbrook to check its calculation a few times and the calculation has been revised by 
Shawbrook. Neither party has made any additional comments beyond trying to ensure that 
redress has been worked out correctly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. 
Mr S says he was led to believe the system would be self-funding and that the benefit 
received from the system would cover the cost of the finance. The quote provided by the 
supplier formed the basis of the sale, including the meeting where this was discussed.
Theres a section headed Repayment options with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows that Mr S is 
expected to pay £100.24 per month towards the loan. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £100.24, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
The table does appear to suggest that the system will provide a monthly profit of £13.77 from 
the first year  with the profit increasing year on year. This corroborates Mr Ss testimony. 
He says he was told the system benefits would outweigh the cost, which is also reflected in 
the paperwork. 
The credit agreement shows the total loan repayments over 15-years would amount to
£18,043.20. The quote included a table showing the annual cumulative benefits of the
system. By the end of year 10, (i.e. well within the loan term) the table shows the benefits 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
In light of this, it seems Mr S was told the system would be self-funding from the
start and would pay for itself within the loan term. I think Mr S, who isnt an expert in 
understanding solar panel generation and benefit, would be dependent on the sales advisor 
taking him through the sales documents  and he was entitled to rely on what he was being 
told and what he saw on the paperwork. And both his testimony and the paperwork suggest 
the system was represented as being self-funding. 
Based on the FIT statements Mr S has provided, I think its clear that the system is not self-
funding. Therefore, overall, I think the evidence supports the conclusion that a 
misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to demonstrate that 
the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an additional cost for him. 
So, I think it should put things right. 
Underperformance 
Ive then gone on to consider Shawbrooks concerns over some of the panels being removed 
and reinstalled in March 2016, when Mr S had some works carried out on his roof. Ive 
considered carefully the comments and the offer its made  but I dont think its fair and Ill 
explain why. 
Shawbrooks offer to only compensate Mr S for underperformance of the system pre removal 
in March 2016, does not put right the matter of the system not being self-funding despite 
being sold as such. Im also not satisfied that Mr Ss roof contractors, mainly caused the 
underperformance or issues that Shawbrook appears to have remedied in July 2016. Im 
also not satisfied that the repair has fixed the problems with underperformance, and Ill 
explain why. 
The quote sets out the system is expected to produce 3120 kWh of energy per year. 
Pre removal 
Ive looked at the FIT statements to check how the system was performing, preMarch 2016 
and can see that, as at December 2015, the systems average generation was 2099.90 kWh. 
This is significantly less than how the system was expected to perform and long before any 
panels were removed and reinstalled. Based on this level of generation, I think its more 
likely the system is not self-funding, and it was also underperforming. So Shawbrook is 
obligated to put it right. 
Impact of the removal (March 2016)
Shawbrook says that it went out to inspect the system in July 2016. It feels the removal must 
have caused the underperformance, as the customer reported a fault shortly after the 
removal and re-installation of the panels in March 2016. However, es explained above, the 
system was significantly underperforming long before the removal, so I dont find 
Shawbrooks claim persuasive. I think its more likely there was a fault with the system long 
before Mr S had any works carried out on his roof and the panels were removed. 
I do accept that theres a possibility that the removal may have caused further 
underperformance, but only for the period between March 2016 and July 2016. I understand 
in July 2016, P inspected the system and found there was no voltage to the panels. The 
notes arent particularly detailed, but it looks like this was fixed and Mr S was charged £250 
plus VAT for the repair. 
Post repair performance 
For the period between March 2017 and March 2018  (so post repair and taking out any 
generation up until March 2017) the system average performance was only 2481.34kWh. 
While this is slightly better than the annual generation pre-2016, it still falls far short of the 
output that was estimated at the point of sale. So, it looks like the system underperformed 
pre- removal and has continued to underperform post repair albeit the repair appears to 
have improved performance to some degree. 
In the context of so many years of underperformance, it seems any potential impact the 
removal had on the overall performance of the system is limited to the very short period of 
time between March 2016 (when the panels were removed) and July 2016 (when the system 
was inspected and put right by P).
In my view, the claim that the removal caused the fault doesnt explain the 
underperformance pre-March 2016 or post repair as the system has continued to 
underperform. Im not satisfied that any potential additional underperformance caused by the 
removal and reinstallation of some of the panels, has materially affected the overall system 
performance or the outcome of this complaint. I can also see Mr S was charged for the 
repair  despite the system underperforming so significantly prior to anything Mr S and his 
contractors may or may not have done. So, I dont think its fair for this to be factored into the 
redress calculation I am intending to order Shawbrook to carry out. 
Summary 
I think the system was mis-represented to Mr S on the basis that it would be self-
funding and that hasnt materialised. Im satisfied that this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr S fairly and he lost out 
because of what Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
I think the system significantly underperformed since it was installed when compared 
to the sales estimates. 
I think Mr S removing and reinstalling some of the panels may have contributed to 
the underperformance but only for a short period between March 2016 and July 2016 
when the system was repaired. 
Given that the system is still underperforming post repair, I dont think the works Mr S 
carried out on his roof and the removal and reinstallation of some of the panels 
materially affected the overall output of the system. 
Putting things right I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels over a 15-year period, so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
I would add that Shawbrook should use the FIT statements available to assess what benefit 
Mr S has received to date. Usually, we would expect Shawbrook to use the estimated annual 
output in the sales quotation or MCS certificate to work out what benefit Mr S would receive 
going forward. But given this system has never performed in line with the quote, despite 
being inspected and repaired, I dont think Shawbrook should use the sales documents to 
guide future performance. I think instead, it should use the current average annual 
generation, and assume the system will perform at that level going forward and redress 
should be worked out on that basis. 
Mr S can submit updated FIT statements and bills to help Shawbrook carry out its redress 
calculation. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, if the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Ss loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr S, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr S, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has since settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.Mr S has made no additional comments (other than asking Shawbrook to check the offer).  
Shawbrook has been given clear instructions on how to carry out the redress calculation 
which Ill set out again below. If Mr S accepts my findings, Shawbrook must carry out the 
redress calculation in line with my decision. 
But in the absence of any new points for me to consider regarding the merits of the 
complaint, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. 
So having again reviewed this complaint in its entirety, I still think this complaint should be 
upheld. I summarise my view below. 
I think the system was mis-represented to Mr S on the basis that it would be self-
funding and that hasnt materialised. Im satisfied that this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr S fairly and he lost out 
because of what Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
I think the system significantly underperformed since it was installed when compared 
to the sales estimates. 
I think Mr S removing and reinstalling some of the panels may have contributed to 
the underperformance but only for a short period between March 2016 and July 2016 
when the system was repaired. 
Given that the system is still underperforming post repair, I dont think the works Mr S 
carried out on his roof and the removal and reinstallation of some of the panels 
materially affected the overall output of the system. 
Putting things right
For the avoidance of any doubt, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar 
panels over a 15-year period, so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
I would add that Shawbrook should use the FIT statements available to assess what benefit 
Mr S has received to date. Usually, we would expect Shawbrook to use the estimated annual 
output in the sales quotation or MCS certificate to work out what benefit Mr S would receive 
going forward. But given this system has never performed in line with the quote, despite 
being inspected and repaired, I dont think Shawbrook should use the sales documents to 
guide future performance. I think instead, it should use the current average annual 
generation, and assume the system will perform at that level going forward and redress 
should be worked out on that basis. 
Mr S can submit updated FIT statements and bills to help Shawbrook carry out its redress 
calculation. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, if the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Ss loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr S, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr S, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has since settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman