Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr B complains about the time it took to process his Home Purchase Plan application and 
the level of solicitors fees he had to pay.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr B applied to Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) for a Home Purchase Plan 
(HPP). The HPP didnt complete until mid-January 2010. Mr B felt it took too long. And he 
thought the solicitors costs for dealing with the transaction incurred by ARB, which he had to 
pay, were excessive.
ARB explained what had happened and provided an explanation from their solicitors of the 
fees theyd charged. ARB didnt think theyd done anything wrong in processing Mr Bs 
application and said Mr B should challenge the legal fees through his own solicitors if he 
thought they were too high. ARB didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. To resolve his complaint, Mr B wanted fees 
totalling around £1,190 to be refunded to him. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint, so its been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Bs strength of feeling about what happened. Im sorry to hear the time it 
took for his HPP to complete caused him stress and impacted the timeline of works he 
wanted to carry out to the property he was buying and plans for his family. 
I may not mention in my decision everything the parties have told us. I dont intend to be 
discourteous - it reflects the informal nature of this service. Id like to reassure the parties Ive 
considered everything theyve told us about what happened in coming to my conclusions. 
I note Mr B wanted this service to look into the arrangements ARB have with their customers 
and solicitors in relation to transactions of the type he was involved in here. The role of this 
service is to consider individual complaints, so I wont address that issue in this decision. Ill 
focus instead on what happened in the individual circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B made his application for an HPP in mid-August 2019. He feels ARB asked some 
spurious questions. It wasnt unreasonable for ARB to ask questions of Mr B to satisfy 
themselves about whether to offer Mr B an HPP. And I dont think the time taken to consider 
the application, issue an offer in mid-September and instruct solicitors to process the HPP 
within three days of the offer was unreasonable - even if, as Mr B thinks, some of the 
questions asked by ARB may not have been strictly necessary. 
DRN-3113989ARBs solicitors sent initial information to Mr Bs solicitors straight awa y after they were 
instructed. But Mr Bs solicitors didnt respond until early Novembe r with the legal pack 
needed to go ahead with the HPP. From the information ARBs solicitors have provided, Im 
satisfied they then made many requests of Mr Bs solicitors for information. And it wasnt 
until the first week of Janua ry that ARBs solicitors had al l the information they required. 
They then clarified with ARB an issue about the electrical installation at the property, which 
was quickly resolved so the transaction could complete on 10 January 2020. 
Mr B says the answer to a questio n ARBs solicitors raised in mid-December about 
insurance cover was clear from documentation hed provided. So, he queries whether some 
of the question s the solicitors raised of his solicitors were necessary. And he says his own 
solicito rs didnt agree theyd provided inadequate information. It s not the role of this service 
to audit solicitors work. Im persuaded from the available evidence ARBs solicitors required 
more information than Mr Bs solicitors we re providing to complete the HPP. And fro m what 
Ive seen, they dea lt with things as quickly as they could. I have nt seen any evidence to 
suggest there w ere any delays on the part of ARB themselves th at impacted the completion 
date. 
Mr B was concerned he was obliged to pay Al Rayans solicitors fees. But th at was part of 
the terms and conditions of the HPP. And the financial information statement that 
accompanied the recommendation letter made clear that Mr B would be obliged to pay their 
solicitors fe es. The likely level of fees wa s set out and the stateme nt said if the fee s were 
going to be higher, Mr B would be tol d as soon as possibl e. Mr B knew when he went ahead 
with the transactio n, hed be responsible for ARBs fees, although I can u nderstand his 
concern that they were higher than the usual figure.
The financial information statement also set o ut clearly that the parties needed to be 
separately represented. Mr B thinks ARB indirectl y control which firm of solicitors an 
applicant chooses to represe nt them by offering to contribute to the fees of their panel firms. 
Howe ver, the financial information statement set out clearly that Mr B was free to choose his 
own solicitors. So, Mr B wasnt obliged to use a panel firm if h e didnt want to. 
ARBs solicitors provided a n explanation of the additional time the y spent and charged for 
dealing with the matter. The solicitors said, amongst other things, the fee reflected the high 
value of the transaction; they had to carry out non-standard activities; and they spent 
additional time asking Mr B s solicitors for information they didnt initially provide as part of 
the legal pack. 
Mr B argues the value of the transaction hadnt changed from the outset and he wasnt 
aware of any additional work being necessary. Hes concerned he hasnt seen evidence of 
the additional contact that was said to be necessary and that it may not have been needed 
anyway. Mr B says his own solicitors didnt charge him more.
Overall, from the explanation their solicitors provided about the work they carried out, I think 
it was reasonable for ARB to think the fees had been reasonabl y incurred and reasonably 
charge d. So, it was fair for ARB to pass them on to Mr B fo r payment.
I acknowledge Mr B was unhapp y about the time it too k for the HPP to complete and that he 
was disappointed to find the legal fees were higher than hed anticipated. I know hed hoped 
to complete much earlier and carry out works before moving in. Since he couldnt do that, it 
impacted other plans with possible financial consequences. And I can u nderstand the whole 
process ha s been stressful. But, for the reasons Ive explaine d, I don t think ARB did 
anything wrong and I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Page 2 of 3Page 3 of 3My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman