DRN-2514487
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the standard of service he has received from Santander UK Plc related 
to his request to change the type of current account he holds with them, and also regarding 
a tax residency letter he received.  
What happened
In May 2020 Mr H made a request to Santander via their online secure messaging system 
asking them to migrate his current account held with Santander from one account type to a 
different type. Santander responded to Mr H, advising that their securing messaging system 
was no longer available. Mr H contacted Santander by telephone, but the department he 
needed to speak with wasnt available and so a call back was arranged. 
When Santander called Mr H, they told him that he needed to apply for the current account 
migration online. Mr H asked why his initial application via the online secure messaging 
system hadnt been processed and was told that the secure messaging system had been 
replaced by a webchat function. Santander offered Mr H £25 by way of apology for his 
inconvenience, but Mr H remained unhappy and so his dissatisfaction with what hed been 
told about the secure messaging service was raised as a complaint with Santander.
While this complaint was being looked into by Santander, Mr H continued to have issues 
with his request to migrate his current account. Santander advised Mr H that the issues 
stemmed from his registered address being outside the UK. On 22 May 2020, Mr H was able 
to change his address and migrate the account successfully. However, Santander later 
reverted the account back to the original current account type and advised Mr H that he 
would need to make a new application to migrate the account to the type that he wanted.
In July 2020 Santander issued a response to Mr Hs complaint about the secure messaging 
system. Santander felt that Mr H hadnt been given the correct information about the secure 
messaging system, so they upheld the complaint and offered Mr H £100 by way of 
compensation.
In August 2020 Mr Hs account was successfully migrated to the account type he requested, 
and Santander credited £60 to Mr H, equivalent to 12 months of account fees on the old 
account, as a gesture of goodwill.
However, because Mr H had to change his address from an overseas address to one within 
the UK, this caused Santander to contact him about his tax residency status and they 
advised Mr H that, because he hadnt supplied necessary information, Santander would 
have to report his residency status to HMRC. Mr H was unhappy about this because hed 
provided his tax residency information to Santander previously and felt that Santander had 
made a mistake in issuing this letter to him because of the issues he had experienced in 
migrating his account with them. So, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this case. They felt that Santander had done enough to 
compensate Mr H for the issues he had experienced about the secure messaging service. 
But, while they acknowledged the £60 that Santander had credited to Mr H corresponding to 
the 12 months of account fees, they didnt feel that this went far enough and that Santander 
hadnt appropriately considered the distress and inconvenience that Mr H had suffered 
surrounding the account migration, and also regarding the tax residency letter. So, our 
investigator upheld the complaint in Mr Hs favour and suggested that Santander pay Mr H 
£50 for the account migration issue, and a further £50 for the tax residency letter issued.
Mr H accepted the recommendation made by our investigator, but Santander did not. They 
explained that the issues Mr H experienced stemmed from his living abroad, and that the 
account type he wanted to transfer too was conditional on the customer residing in the UK. 
Santander explained that they had helped Mr H negotiate these issues so that he could 
migrate the account, but that they had done so as an exception to the terms and conditions 
of the account, as ultimately Mr H continued to reside abroad. 
Furthermore, Santander noted that they had already made payments to Mr H of £100 for the 
secure messaging complaint and £60 relating to the 12 months of account fees, and they felt 
that this combined £160 was sufficient compensation for the issues that Mr H experienced. 
So, Santander requested that the matter be escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive weighed up the objections raised by Santander against the view put forward 
by our investigator. One of these objections is the assertion by Santander that the 
cumulative amount of £160 that Santander have already credited Mr H is appropriate 
consideration for the combined distress and inconvenience that he has experienced across 
all aspects of his complaint.
Santanders objection here is based on the notion that all aspects of Mr Hs complaint be 
considered as one complaint, rather than being considered as separate complaints - about 
the secure messaging system issues; the account migration issues; and the tax residency 
letter issues.
However, I note Santanders complaint response letter to Mr H dated 6 July 2020 which 
specifically addresses the secure messaging system complaint, and which offers Mr H £100 
compensation for these issues - which Mr H accepted. This letter states as follows:
Please note that this complaint is not linked to the on-going complaint you have open in 
relation to issues you are experiencing with trying to open a new account.
So, given that this letter confirms that Santander offered the £100 they did here on the basis 
of the impact of its actions specifically in relation to the issues around the secure messaging 
system, rather than the overall issues. So, I feel that its fair that the complaints that Mr H has 
raised about the account migration and the tax residency letter should be considered as 
separate from the secure messaging system complaint.
I have also considered Santanders explanation that a number of the issues Mr H has 
experienced relate to him residing overseas and that Santander have made an exception to 
allow Mr H to migrate his current account to the account type he requested. 
Santander have explained why the issues that Mr H has experienced with account migration 
and the tax residency letter have occurred. I think their explanation here is a fair one and Santander have said that they made exceptions to their standard process here, which is 
good to see. But that doesnt change the fact that there have been issues with doing this 
which have caused Mr H some frustration and inconvenience. In these circumstances, its 
fair that Santander acknowledges this impact by compensating Mr H.
So, having reviewed this complaint, I find that I am in agreement with our investigator in that 
I dont feel that the payment of £60 that Santander made to Mr H as a gesture of goodwill 
relating to the refund of 12 months account fees goes far enough to make up for the 
frustration and inconvenience that Mr H has experienced relating to the account migration 
and tax residency letter issues.
So, I consider that the suggested awards of compensation to Mr H of £50 for the account 
migration issues and a further £50 for the tax residency letter issues are fair and appropriate 
in this instance, and I will be upholding Mr Hs complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr H £50 for the inconvenience Mr H has suffered relating to the 
account migration issues, and a further £50 for the inconvenience Mr H has suffered relating 
to the tax residency letter issues. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr H the total amount of £100 on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman