DRN-4260985
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined a claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 31 December 2021 Mr C took out a pet insurance policy with C&G for his dog, A. He 
made a claim to C&G after his dog was treated for a disc extrusion.
After reviewing the dogs clinical history C&G declined the claim. The clinical history referred 
to the dog becoming ill with neck and back pain in December 2022 while in the care of a 
friend. C&G said the policy didnt cover claims arising while the pet was not being looked 
after by Mr C or his family.
On a later consultation the vet noted that the dog was shared between Mr C and another 
person. Mr C explained that the other person or friend was his ex-partner who had been 
living with him when the policy was taken out. C&G said a second person couldnt be added 
to the policy as an additional owner of a pet as it didnt allow joint policyholders.
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended the complaint be 
upheld. She didnt think C&G had acted fairly in declining the claim as who the dog was with 
had no bearing on her illness which was age-related. She thought C&G should settle the 
claim. C&G said Mr Cs ex-partner lived at an address where there are a considerable 
number of steps to access the property. It thought it likely that repeatedly climbing steep 
stairs would have contributed to the disc problems.
As C&G didnt agree with our Investigators view, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C&G has refused to settle Mr Cs claim on the basis that the dog was not being looked after 
by him or his family when she became ill. I need to decide whether that decision was fair and 
reasonable.
The policy says:
Section 1  Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
Any claim arising where Your pet is not being looked after by You or Your family.
Family is defined as husband, wife, partner, civil partner, children, parents, or other 
relatives who normally reside with you.
Mr C has provided evidence that at the time the policy was taken out he and his ex-partner 
were living together and so she would have been classed as Family at that stage.
The risks which insurers are prepared to accept is a commercial decision for them. However, 
the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook sets out that an insurer must not 
unreasonably reject a claim. Having considered all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont think C&G has complied with this. Ill explain why.
The full circumstances of the claim are relevant to whether C&Gs decision to apply the 
exclusion was fair and reasonable.
A was noted to be suffering from neck and back pain while staying with Mr Cs ex-partner. 
The vet gave her an injection and recommended rest.
Two days later on 7 December 2022 A was re-examined. There was only a small 
improvement in her condition and she was still a bit unsteady on her back legs. So the vet 
referred her to a specialist.
On 9 December 2022 A was diagnosed with intervertebral disc disease and surgery was 
recommended. The vet noted that A had been going up and down a short flight of stairs 
while staying with a friend. But there is no suggestion in the clinical history that this caused 
the dogs condition. My understanding of this disease is that its a condition that gradually 
causes the discs in between vertebrae to lose their sponginess and sometimes slip out of 
place. That can cause weakness in the dogs legs. Its usually an age-related degenerative 
condition but some breeds (including As breed) are more prone to it than others.
Ultimately the onus is on C&G to prove that the exclusion applies. I dont believe on balance 
it has shown that the claim arose while A was staying with the ex-partner. I think its more 
likely that she was suffering from a condition that had been developing over some time. 
Given this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for C&G to cover the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to settle Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman