DRN-4326546
The complaint
Mr H complains as a director of T, a limited company, that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited rejected a claim T made on its legal expenses insurance.
What happened
T made a claim on its policy to cover the legal costs of pursuing a case to recover a debt. 
DAS referred the claim to one of its panel solicitors to assess but the solicitors advised that T 
did not have reasonable prospects of successfully recovering any money from the other 
party, so DAS declined the claim.
T disagreed and complained about the decision but DAS didnt change its position.
When Mr H referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said it was reasonable for DAS to rely on the legal advice and if Mr H wanted to 
contest that, he would need to provide his own legal opinion that confirmed there was a 
reasonable chance of recovery from the other party.
Mr H disagrees and on behalf of T has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say that for cover to be provided  the prospects that the person insured 
will recover losses or damages make a successful defence or make a successful appeal 
or defence of an appeal, must be at least 51%.
Legal expenses policies usually include a term like this and will generally only provide cover 
where a claim is likely to succeed. Id expect an insurer to obtain legal advice on whether the 
case is likely to be successful and its reasonable for them to rely on that, provided its a 
properly reasoned opinion from someone suitable qualified to give the advice.
DAS did obtain suitable legal advice, and the advice was that it was unlikely T would be able 
to recover any money from the other party. This advice was based on a review of the other 
partys poor financial position, including information from its accounts, the fact it was 
considered a maximum credit risk and that it had an outstanding county court judgment that 
had not been paid. 
Mr H raised a number of points but the solicitors considered these and didnt change their 
advice. Indeed, in later correspondence they reported that the other partys financial position 
had got worse; the balance sheet showed a large negative balance and there were now two 
outstanding court judgments.
Mr H has questioned why the comments all relate to the other partys financial status when 
the policy wording talks about whether the claim has a 51% chance of succeeding in court. 
And hes referred to advice he obtained from his own solicitor. 
The policy term set out above has two requirements  there needs to be at least a 51% 
chance that T will win the case (in other words, get a judgement against the other party) and 
successfully enforce the judgment and recover money from them. The advice in this case is 
clear that even if T wins the case its unlikely to be able to enforce the judgment and recover 
any money. 
While the advice from Ts solicitors did say the case had a better than 51% chance of 
winning it was nevertheless risky; enforcement could be difficult; and the prospects of 
recovery were unclear. The solicitor said was that there was some prospect of making a 
partial recovery That isnt enough to satisfy the requirement that recovery is more likely 
than not to be possible. And since that advice was given, the other partys financial position 
has got worse so the risk is only likely to have increased.
In these circumstances I think the decision not to provide cover is in line with the policy 
terms and is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman