DRN-3305558
The complaint
Mrs K complains that shes being pursued for an outstanding amount by J D Williams and 
Company Limited for items she never received.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs K ordered an item on her JDW account. Mrs K was moving at the end of the 
summer and the item still hadnt been delivered. She says she contacted JDW and advised 
them she was moving, and no longer wanted the item. Despite this, JDW despatched the 
item and it was delivered to one of Mrs Ks neighbours. Mrs K doesnt know which neighbour 
took delivery and JDW hasnt been able to obtain this information from the courier.
Following this JDW issued an overdue account statement and ultimately defaulted the 
account and passed it to a debt collector. It said it had no record of Mrs K cancelling the 
order or moving to a different address.
Mrs K complained. She says shes never received the item and wants the balance written off 
and the default notice removed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I explained that whilst I was satisfied that 
Mrs K had made efforts to notify JDW that she didnt want the item delivered because she 
was moving, some of her emails were sent to an incorrect email address and didnt reach 
JDW, so it didnt receive the request to cancel the order before the item was despatched. 
I said that under the relevant legislation, JDW was responsible for the goods until they were 
delivered to either the customer of the customers nominated representative, and that I 
wasnt satisfied that the item had been delivered to Mrs K or a nominated person. 
I explained that I didnt think JDW had acted fairly in relying on the couriers statement that 
the goods were delivered to a neighbour without providing more specific information. I also 
felt that JDW could have done more to investigate matters with the courier, or to provide Mrs 
K with a missing item claim form. I concluded that it wasnt fair to require Mrs K to pay for the 
item.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to 
advance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. In the circumstances, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to that which I reached previously.
Putting things right
To put things right, J D Williams and Company Limited must write off the balance, pay 
compensation and remove the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. J D Williams and Company Limited must 
write off the balance on Mrs Ks account, pay compensation of £50 for trouble and upset and 
remove the default recorded on Mrs Ks credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman