DRN-3790622
The complaint
Mr P and Ms V complain about the renewal premium for Ms V in relation to their private 
medical insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr P and Ms V have had private medical insurance with BUPA 
for some years. The renewal date is in May of each year.
Ms V had claims arising from accidents in 2014 and 2021. Ms V claimed against the 
driver who caused the accident in 2014. Part of the settlement of that claim was a 
payment to BUPA in 2018 in relation to some of Ms Vs medical costs. 
Mr P and Ms V are unhappy about Ms Vs premium at renewal in May 2022. Mr P and 
Ms V say that BUPAs basis for calculating the premium is flawed in that any loading is 
compounded in the following years. And they think its unfair that BUPA havent taken 
into account the refund of medical costs it received in 2018. Mr P and Ms V say that the 
premium for a new policy for Ms V would be considerably cheaper than the renewal 
premium. They want BUPA to accept that a lower renewal premium is appropriate. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that BUPA had 
acted unreasonably in calculating the premiums. The investigator said that this services 
role isnt to tell an insurer how to approach or rate risk. He said that BUPA followed its 
process in calculating the premium and that it treated Mr P and Ms V the same as other 
consumers in their position. The investigator said that the payment from the third party to 
BUPA only covered part of Ms Vs claim costs, so an increase in premium would have 
followed in any event. 
Mr P and Ms V didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
Its inequitable that BUPA hasnt taken into account the money it received in 2018 
as a result of Ms Vs legal action against the third party.  
The investigator didnt comment on the renewal loading being on a compound 
basis or on the comparative cost of a new policy. 
Mr P and Ms V asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
In this decision, Im dealing with the complaint Mr P and Ms V raised with BUPA in     
April 2022, to which BUPA responded on 19 May 2022.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr P and Ms V have very strong feelings about this matter. They have provided 
detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and considered. However, 
I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issue, that is, whether BUPA treated Ms V unfairly in calculating her premium for the 
policy year 2022/2023. 
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct BUPA generally about how it conducts its 
business, including how it calculates premiums. I can look at whether it has treated Mr P and 
Ms V fairly and reasonably. I think it has and Ill explain why. 
When calculating premiums, an insurer takes into consideration a very large number 
of factors. Its not for this service to tell BUPA what factors it should take into account 
when assessing risk nor what weight to give to those factors. And its not for me to 
direct BUPA about compounding loadings. An insurers approach to risk is essentially 
a matter of commercial judgement and not something with which we would usually 
think its fair to interfere. 
Im satisfied that the premium Ms V was quoted in 2022 was calculated correctly and 
that all members in Ms Vs position will have been charged a similar premium. So, I 
dont think that BUPA treated Ms V unfairly or unreasonably. 
BUPA didnt take into account a partial reimbursement of claim costs it received in 
2018 following Ms Vs legal action against a third party. BUPA says that it now refers 
such matters to its actuarial team to check the impact on the premium, but the new 
process hasnt been backdated, so it doesnt cover the payment it received in 2018. 
Ive thought about this carefully. On balance, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct BUPA to take into account payments received when that wasnt 
part of its process at that time. BUPA treated Ms V in the same way it treated other 
members in her position. I dont think its for me to direct BUPA to backdate the 
changes it has now made to the way it treats a partial refund of claim costs. BUPA is 
right to say that Ms Vs increased costs of future premiums would form part of her 
claim against the third party.  
I can quite understand Mr P and Ms Vs concern about the increase in Ms Vs 
premium. As they are no doubt aware, it was open to them to decline the renewal 
quote and search the market for another provider.
Mr P and Ms V complain that it would be cheaper for Ms V to take out a new policy. 
That isnt comparing like with like. The date of underwriting of Ms Vs policy is           
1 November 2011 whereas the quote they obtained excludes pre-existing conditions. 
So, the risk of an eligible claim is reduced with a new policy, which leads to a lower 
premium. 
Considering everything and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that BUPA 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P and Ms Vs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms V to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman