DRN-4011730
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made under her 
commercial (landlords) home emergency policy, for issues with the boiler at a property she 
owns.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in full 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs H is unhappy with Avivas handling of her claim. 
She says there were numerous unnecessary site visits because the engineers who attended 
werent able to correctly identify or remedy the fault. She also says Avivas engineers caused 
the air lock issue with the boiler and/or the issue which eventually resulted in it being 
declared beyond economical repair (BER).
Aviva acknowledged that the airlock issue ought to have been diagnosed sooner, and so 
there were some unnecessary appointments. It apologised and offered £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mrs H. But it disputed that its engineer 
caused the air lock issue because Mrs Hs own engineer had confirmed the system had 
been prone to this type of issue historically. And in any event, Aviva said the boiler was 
deemed BER because it required replacement parts which were no longer available, rather 
than because of the air lock issue.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Hs claim should be upheld. She said the evidence didnt 
support her view that Avivas engineer had caused the issue with Mrs Hs boiler or caused it 
to be deemed BER. She agreed that there were unnecessary visits, but she thought Avivas 
apology and compensation offer were enough to put things right.
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs H is unhappy with the number of unnecessary appointments which took place and 
because her boiler was declared BER. She feels Avivas engineer damaged her boiler.
The issue causing the loss of hot water in her property appears to have been an airlock. 
Avivas first engineer highlighted this, yet subsequent engineers suggested or highlighted 
other issues, requiring additional appointments, before Mrs Hs own engineer eventually 
confirmed the issue was caused by an airlock and remedied it.
Mrs H has suggested the airlock was caused by Avivas engineers when they attended to fix 
a leaking radiator, under a separate claim, on 10 September 2022.
However, Avivas engineers notes from August 2022 indicate an airlock was already 
present, and Mrs Hs engineers notes confirm that her system was prone to airlocks as he 
had remedied similar issues at numerous times in the past. So, Im not persuaded that 
Avivas engineers most likely caused the airlock issue.
During the claim, it also became apparent that Mrs Hs boiler required a new Printed Circuit 
Board (PCB) and gas valve. However, parts for Mrs Hs boiler could no longer be sourced 
and Aviva doesnt use reconstituted parts. So, as it could not replace the gas valve, Aviva 
deemed Mrs Hs boiler as BER. This decision is in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Hs policy, so I dont think Aviva has treated Mrs H unfairly or that it needs to cover the 
full costs she incurred in replacing her boiler. Instead, in line with the terms of the policy, I 
agree that Aviva only needed to cover the cost of the replacement boiler (which I understand 
it has), not the costs involved with installing it.
In terms of the distress and inconvenience caused by Avivas handling of the claim, several 
potentially unnecessary appointments were scheduled/took place between August and 
September 2022 before the boiler was declared BER on 5 October 2022. Aviva accepts that 
some appointments were unnecessary and that this resulted in Mrs H experiencing undue 
distress and inconvenience. It has offered her £50 compensation alongside its apology.
Ive thought carefully about the sequence of events in this complaint. Its clear that the 
airlock issue ought to have been diagnosed sooner, and that some appointments were 
unnecessary. But I think the bulk of the inconvenience here was suffered by Mrs Hs tenants, 
rather than by her directly. And Im only able to consider the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs H directly suffered as part of this complaint. 
That said, I do agree that it would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs H to have 
to make time for appointments and to communicate with Aviva and her tenants during this 
process. But taking everything into account, I think Avivas apology and offer is sufficient to 
compensate Mrs H for the direct impact she experienced as a result of Avivas errors.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs H £50  if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman