DRN-2300460
The complaint
Mr N says Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500):
Applied the wrong sell price to his EUR/TRY Contracts for Differences (CFD) buy 
position on 18 November 2019, which unfairly triggered its margin call/forced closure. 
He says he should be compensated for the loss that arose from the closure.
Applied overnight financing charges (OFCs) to his trades that it was not supposed to 
apply (because they were not in the terms he agreed); or, in the alternative, it applied 
OFCs which were excessive and unfair. He says he should be refunded the OFCs he 
incurred.
What happened
Plus 500 disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
It provides execution only accounts for its CFD trading platform; Mr N retained, at all 
times, sole responsibility to manage his account, to make his own trading decisions 
in the account and to monitor (and manage) margin in the account; he agreed to the 
terms and conditions for the account in the User Agreement (UA) in the course of 
opening his account and the July 2019 version of the UA was binding upon him at the 
time of his complaint and the complaint events.
Mr Ns EUR/TRY CFD position (the position) was closed at the sell price of 6.2782 
at 22:27 GMT on 18 November; Mr N says the price for the EUR/TRY pair never fell 
to this level at the time and he has referred to prices available from other firms in 
support; the terms he agreed in the UA confirmed that Plus500 applied its own 
prices, based on external price feeds, to transactions and was/is not obliged to match 
another firms prices; there is evidence from Bloomberg that the best/highest sell 
price for the pair fell even lower than 6.2782 at the time and other evidence that 
6.2782 was comparable to the rates shown by the market data providers Yahoo 
Finance and Trading View at the time; so its price was reflective of the underlying 
market and was not wrong.
Under the UA, Plus500 was entitled to apply automatic closures of any or all open 
positions in an account when the accounts equity fell below its maintenance margin 
level; that level was set in compliance with the 50% margin close out rule, for retail 
clients, set by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA); in Mr Ns 
case the price movement for the position meant his account equity fell to £2,211.08 
whilst the maintenance margin required in the account was £2,243.81, so the margin 
call closure applied on this basis; he had been sent a clearly worded alert warning of 
the potential margin call (and the maintenance margin level that was at risk of being 
breached) as early as 10:00 on the day (though SMS, email and push notification) 
but he had taken no steps to address the matter by the time the margin call was 
applied at 22:27.
The terms providing for the application of OFCs are within the UA Mr N agreed; the 
terms explained the reasoning behind the charges and how they were calculated and 
applied; the specific OFCs are clearly displayed on the trading platform at all times 
(before a position is opened, whilst it is opened and maintained and after it is closed) 
and summary of what they are and how they are calculated is also available on the 
platform; if Mr N did not like the OFCs quoted he was under no obligation to open 
any position; it has recalculated the OFCs for two EUR/TRY positions he highlighted 
and the charges applied were accurate; and it has invited him to refer to OFCs in any 
other positions he is concerned about.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, for broadly the same reasons as those given by Plus500 and with reference to the 
same evidence. 
In summary, she noted that the sell price applied to the position was reflective of the market 
and that this is supported by evidence; that the margin call was legitimate; that Mr N 
received clear warning ahead of the margin call and it was his responsibility to monitor and 
manage margin in his account; that the OFCs were provided for in the UA and information 
about them was displayed on the trading platform; and that Mr N appears to have confused 
the facility for rolling over a position (which related to futures contracts based positions) with 
OFCs (which applied to leveraged trades like his CFD positions) but the terms were clear in 
distinguishing them and OFCs were correctly applied to his positions. The investigator also 
addressed Mr Ns reference to financial hardship arising from the complaints subject matter, 
however he subsequently clarified that this is not a complaint issue.
Mr N disagreed with the investigator. He retained his original arguments and considered that 
an audit of trades in his account should be conducted in order to identify unfair and 
excessive OFCs (when compared to charges other firms were applying) as he alleges; he 
maintained that the sell price for the position was not reflective of what others were 
presenting at the time; he also argued that OFCs were not binding on him at the relevant 
time because they were introduced afresh in a version of the UA that post dates his 
complaint. 
In response, the investigator repeated (and clarified) her findings. She also re-affirmed that 
provisions for the OFCs were in the 2019 version of the UA that was binding on the 
complaint events. She did not consider it fair to conduct the account audit Mr N sought 
without cause to do so and, like Plus500 had previously done, she invited him to identify any 
specific charges he disputes.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint. I conclude as follows:
The sell price applied by Plus500 to the position was reflective of the market for the 
EUR/TRY pair at the relevant time and was fair. Evidence presented by Plus500 
which shows that Bloomberg recorded spot fx sell prices for the pair, at the relevant 
time, that were lower than 6.2782  contrary to Mr Ns claim that the price did not fall 
so low  and that 6.2782 was comparable to the market data provider rates from 
Yahoo Finance and Trading View at the time. 
Plus500s terms for the account under the 2019 version of the UA applies to, and is 
binding upon, the complaint and complaint events. I am satisfied that it was agreed 
by Mr N, it was binding upon him as a Plus500 account holder and it pre-dated the 
complaint events.
The UAs terms confirmed that Plus500 applied its prices to transactions on its 
platform. It was under no obligation to match any external price source elsewhere in the sector/market. On this basis, I do not accept the comparisons that Mr N has 
made with the prices he obtained from other platform providers. Plus500s price did 
not have to match, exactly, the underlying market price for the EUR/TRY pair, it only 
had to be reflective of that price and, as I said above, it was.
Plus500s reference to the effect of the margin close out rule from ESMA is accurate; 
the UAs terms related to this were that it was Mr Ns sole responsibility to monitor 
and manage margin in his account in order to ensure the accounts equity did not fall 
to or below the maintenance margin level; and that margin close out would apply if he 
did not. The price movement for the position resulted in the account equity figure I 
mentioned above, which fell below the maintenance margin level (also mentioned 
above). In those circumstances, based on the UAs terms and on ESMAs margin 
close out rule Plus500 was entitled to close the position. I am satisfied with evidence 
that Mr N was given ample notice of the need to manage the level of margin in his 
account in response to the threat of a margin call. He could have either funded the 
account or closed a position(s) himself, but he appears to have done neither by the 
time the margin call was applied. I do not consider that Plus500 was wrong to apply 
the margin call.
The investigator gave thorough treatment to the distinction between the platforms 
rolling over function and its OFCs. I consider that the difference has been clearly 
explained to Mr N. The matter disputed in the complaint is the application of OFCs. 
They are provided for in the UA he agreed and information about their purpose and 
calculation was available to him within the agreed terms and on the trading platform. I 
am persuaded by screenshot evidence which shows he would have been given prior 
notice of applicable OFCs before submitting a trade order, so he would have had the 
opportunity to accept them if he wished or to decline any associated trade if he 
considered that the OFCs were excessive. I have not seen evidence that wrongly 
calculated OFCs were applied to the positions he highlighted, the recalculations 
conducted by Plus500 appear to verify that the OFCs for those positions were 
correct. In the absence of cause to do so, I do not consider that the composite audit 
that Mr N appears to seek in this matter is reasonable. He has been repeatedly 
invited to specify any other OFCs he disputes but he has not done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman