DRN-3588920
The complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) marked his credit file
with a default and missed payments.
What happened
Mr D had a credit card with M&S. In April 2020, the limit was £4,800 and the balance was
£4,284.01. Minimum monthly payments were £107.59. Mr Ds income was affected by the 
pandemic  he was on furlough. His partner was made redundant. He asked for two 
payment holidays, each for three months under the pandemic support scheme. M&S 
agreed to those and they ran for six months up to September 2020. In October 2020, Mr D 
called M&S again to discuss his options at that time. His furlough payments had reduced 
from 80% to 67%, and his partner was still out of work. M&S agreed a no affordability hold 
(NAH) on his account until 27 April 2021  with no payments needed, and no interest or 
charges. Mr Ds credit file was marked with three missed payments between December 
2020 and February 2021. A Notice of Default was sent to Mr D in January 2021, and a 
default was registered.
Mr D complained. He said he wasnt aware of the consequences of the NAH on his credit 
file. It hadnt been clearly explained to him when he called M&S. He accepted M&S had 
said it would affect his credit rating, but that was all. He wasnt told about a default and if 
he had been, he wouldnt have agreed to the arrangement. He couldve borrowed money 
from his parents to make the payments if that was the case. He said he was told to ignore 
regulatory letters. He said hed worked hard to ensure he had a clean credit file, and it was 
now ruined  with consequences that would last for six years. In April 2022, Mr D told us 
his account had been passed to a debt collection agency.
M&S said theyd agreed a no affordability hold on Mr Ds account in October 2020 as the 
best solution for his situation  because he couldnt afford the payments. When Mr D called 
on 27 October 2020, M&S advisor said his credit history would be affected. But they agreed 
the advisor didnt mention default. When a no affordability hold was agreed  this didnt 
prevent arrears arising as the contractual payments werent being made. The letters such as 
statutory arrears notices and other regulatory correspondence was sent, including a Notice 
of Default and Final Demand. They were sorry that the adviser told Mr D to ignore the 
letters. The default on Mr Ds credit file had been notified to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) because he was making a reduced payment of £92.30 for 12 months  and the 
contractual payment was more than that. They paid compensation of £150 for the service 
Mr D received from the advisors.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said M&S acted reasonably. He said the 
no affordability hold (NAH) was the best option for Mr Ds circumstances. He said the 
adviser said the NAH would affect Mr Ds credit file. He agreed that the advisors couldve 
explained the NAH better, but the compensation offered was reasonable. He said that Mr 
D could consider applying for a notice of correction at the CRAs  so prospective lenders 
could see that and take it into consideration.
Mr D didnt agree. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision which said:
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
M&S, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit 
cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still 
be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 
2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme 
werent normally agreed.
Ive listened to 12 calls made between M&S and Mr D between March 2020 and April 
2021. Mr D was put on furlough because of the pandemic and M&S agreed two periods of 
payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme  up to September 2020. When Mr 
D called M&S at the end of the two payment holidays  on 27 October 2020  M&S 
couldnt agree a further payment holiday as hed already had the maximum allowed. And 
at that time, Mr D told M&S that his furlough payment was to be reduced to 67% from 80% 
- and he couldnt be sure when he might return to work full time. On the call, M&S looked 
through Mr Ds income and expenditure statement (that he had previously completed). 
M&S said he had negative monthly disposable income of £412  and after adjusting it for 
his reduced furlough, they said his situation had got worse. So  in those circumstances, 
M&S were justified in offering Mr D a NAH on his account  and that was the right thing to 
do for him. This included a hold on monthly payments, with no interest or charges being 
made.
But  the important thing to consider in the context of Mr Ds complaint is how and what 
was communicated to him in the call on 27 October 2020, in subsequent calls, and in 
letters sent to him. On balance, I dont think M&S were clear enough in their 
communications with Mr D.
In the call on 27 October 2020, M&S offered the NAH. This meant no payments were 
needed. The call hander said it would reflect on credit file. Mr D said, Ive got no option 
to be honest. She then said interest and charges would be suspended. And that you will 
get a letter to explain. The call handler said, you will get regulatory lettersthats a legal 
requirementbut no need to take any actionjust keep them for reference. Mr D replied, 
thats great thank you.
Ive considered what was said on this important call  and for me, M&S didnt go far 
enough to tell Mr D about what would happen to his credit records. Its reasonable to have 
expected M&S to have told Mr D - about the probability that a default would be registered, 
that missed payments would also be notified to the CRAs; and that such actions would 
affect his ability to obtain credit for six years. I think M&S shouldve been clearer with Mr D 
and gone through all the consequences of the NAH - and then checked his understanding. 
But they didnt.
M&S also said theyd confirm the NAH details in writing. But they havent shown us a letter 
or email that was sent to Mr D  so I assume a letter wasnt sent. If it had been  and if it 
had spelt out the impacts on Mr Ds credit file, that would have been helpful.M&S sent to Mr D arrears notices on 10 December 2020, and 10 February 2021. They 
sent a Default Notice on 13 January 2021 and then a Final Demand on 11 February 2021. 
But on the call on 27 October 2020  the call handler said clearly that Mr D should ignore 
any regulatory letters. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr D to assume he could do just 
that.
I then listened to the call on 19 January 2021. Mr D said hed just received the Notice of 
Default. He asked, do I ignore that.can I ignore itas payments are on hold at the 
moment?. M&S adviser said yes, we are required to send these lettersas the account 
is on hold. So  on that call, M&S couldve advised Mr D about the impact of the NAH but 
didnt. And again, Mr D was told he could ignore the letters.
I then listened to the call on 9 March 2021. Mr D called to ask when the NAH was ending 
and what he needed to do to restart payments. He also wanted to know when his 0% 
balance transfer offers expired (which he had previously).The call handler said a direct 
debit couldnt be set up because your account defaulted on 2 March 2021. And the 
balance transfer offers werent applicable because of the default. Mr D asked what does 
that mean exactly? The call handler said, you can no longer transfer balances. So  Mr 
D was left with the impression that the default only affected the balance transfers. I think it 
was reasonable to expect that M&S shouldve gone further and described the effect on his 
credit file.
Mr D called M&S again on 13 April 2021 to discuss what to do at the end of the NAH on 27 
April 2021. By then, Mr Ds income and expenditure showed he could afford payments of
£92.30 per month  which he agreed to. The plan was put in place for 12 months. The 
adviser said default previously registered with CRAs will last for six years(and will) 
affect ability to obtain future credit. Mr D said OK. M&S said they would write to confirm 
the arrangement. Mr D asked I have three missed payments on my credit file. I assume it 
wont show again?. The adviser replied, it will just show what you owe going forward. 
And so, on this call  there was more information given than before. But - he was then 
advised that his credit file would only show the balance outstanding. He wasnt told there 
was a default showing and what that meant. I think it wouldve been reasonable for M&S 
to go further and do that.
M&S wrote to Mr D on 13 April 2021  to confirm the new agreement. The letter said 
Thank you for your offer to repay the outstanding balance on your account. We're letting 
you know that we've accepted this offer. This is an informal arrangement and starts with 
the first payment of £92.30 to be made by 6 May 2021 followed by monthly payments of 
£92.30 on 6th of each month. But  there wasnt any reference to any effect on Mr Ds 
credit file. I think its reasonable to expect M&S to have explained that in the letter.
And so  I dont think M&S acted reasonably during the period between October 2020 and 
April 2021. I dont think the communications were clear and not misleading. Mr D wasnt 
told about the impact on his credit file clearly enough and was told to ignore letters. And  
M&S didnt write to Mr D about the NAH in October 2020 as they promised they would; 
and in April 2021, while the revised payment plan was advised in writing  the letter didnt 
mention the impact on Mr Ds credit file.
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. And M&S should remove the 
default and late payment markers from Mr Ds credit file for the period October 2020 to 
April 2022 (the end date of the last payment plan). Mr D has said that his account has 
been passed to a DCA and a mutually agreeable repayment plan agreed.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr D agreed with the provisional decision, but M&S didnt. They said:The no affordability hold was the best solution for Mr D as he didnt have sufficient 
income to make the minimum payments.
He was told that the arrangement would affect his credit file.
As Mr D didnt have enough income, he was always likely to default because he 
wasnt making the minimum payments  and he still isnt. So, he is likely to default 
again as a result. That would mean that a future default would run for six years 
from then on  which would prolong the situation for a longer period than if the 
default ran from its original date (in 2021).
I now need to consider M&Ss comments and come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what M&S have said. On the first two points  I can accept that a no 
affordability hold was the best solution in Mr Ds situation. But the provisional decision set 
out that M&S communications werent clear enough; and in some respects, they were 
misleading - as they told him to ignore the letters about default. And  that was the main 
reason for the provisional decision to uphold Mr Ds complaint. So, I dont agree with M&S 
on those two points.
M&S raise a valid point about the possibility of a default in the future. So - we asked M&S for 
Mr Ds statements. They show that Mr D has made the agreed payments of £92.30 each 
month from May 2021 to July 2022. But because the contractual monthly minimum 
payments are about £108  arrears are building up and there may be a future time when 
M&S choose to default Mr Ds account because of that. If that were the case, then the 
default from 2021 would leave him in a better place (because it would stay on his credit file 
for six years from then, as opposed to six years from say 2023). And so, I must be careful 
here not to put Mr D in a worse position than he wouldve otherwise have been.
But I can only deal with Mr Ds complaint as he has put it to us  and he wants his credit file 
cleaned up and the default removed. I understand that and so I am not going to vary from 
the provisional decision  but Mr D must understand that he will need to make the agreed 
payments (as to be agreed with M&S); otherwise there is a risk of a future default affecting 
his credit file.
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must:
Remove the default and late payment markers from Mr Ds credit file  from 
October 2020 to April 2022.
Bring the debt back from the CRA and agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman