DRN-2773117
The complaint
Mr B complains Allianz Insurance Plc acted unfairly by declining to cover the costs of a 
sharps bin following a claim under his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr B raised a claim under his pet insurance policy for his pet dog whod 
developed diabetes following a procedure. As a result, Mr Bs dog required daily insulin 
injections. Allianz accepted to cover the treatment under the policy. 
Mr B used a sharps bin to properly dispose of his dogs needles and requested Allianz 
covered this cost as part of the claim. 
Allianz declined to cover these costs and referred to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair as he said the sharps bin was essential in properly disposing of 
his dogs needles in line with health and safety rules. He also didnt think a sharps bin should 
be deemed as equipment as theyre essential to disposing of the needles. As Mr B didnt 
accept this, he raised a complaint with Allianz.
Allianz wrote to Mr B in March 2021 maintaining their stance on the outcome of this part of 
the claim. As Mr B was unable to reach an outcome he was satisfied with, he brought a 
complaint to this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. He 
reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and didnt think a sharps bin was something 
the policy covered. Mr B remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
case. So, its now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very unfortunate to read that Mr Bs dog developed diabetes following a surgical 
procedure which requires ongoing treatment. Allianz accepted to cover the treatment under 
the policy. But what remains in dispute is whether Allianz acted fairly by declining to cover 
the costs of the sharps bin as part of the claim. 
In considering Mr Bs complaint, my starting point is his pet insurance policy. This provides 
Mr Bs dog with cover for illness and injury, but the policy also set out conditions of cover. 
The condition relevant in this case is as follows: 
19. The costs of equipment or machinery 
We will not cover the cost of buying or hiring any type of equipment, machinery, 
animal housing or cages. These costs are never covered by the policy and this is 
regardless of whether: 
A vet advises the item is required as part of the treatment for an illness or 
injury, or 
The item is required due to your personal circumstances. 
Examples of equipment and machinery are (but not limited to) home glucose 
monitors, sharps bins, paw protectors, heat pads etc. 
Mr B argues the use of a sharps bin is essential to properly dispose of his dogs needles 
safely as a normal rubbish bin isnt appropriate. I do agree the use of a sharps bin is 
required here and accept Mr Bs argument. However, the condition cited above in my view 
clearly sets out that such costs arent covered. 
Mr B said a sharps bin shouldnt be considered as equipment and feels Allianz should 
change this. I must explain my role here isnt to require an insurer to amend or change their 
policy. My role is to consider whether I think Allianz has applied the policy in a fair and 
reasonable way. And in this case, it follows that I think Allianz has applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy fairly, for the reasons given above. Im unable to agree with Mr B that 
a sharps bin is covered under the policy. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr B. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Bs dispute with Allianz  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman