DRN-2913546
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Vitality Health Limited authorised treatment under a group private 
medical insurance scheme after it had ended. 
 
What happened
Mrs A was covered under her previous employers group private medical insurance scheme. 
Mrs As partner was covered under her membership. 
In November 2019, Mrs As employers broker requested that the scheme end early, on 31 
January 2020. Vitality referred the matter to its underwriters, who agreed to that request. 
On 9 December 2019, the broker contacted Vitality to check that it would allow the scheme 
to end. Vitality responded to confirm that it had agreed the scheme would end on 31 January 
2020. Then on 11 December 2019, the broker asked Vitality if Mrs As cover could be 
extended to 29 February 2020 as her contract had been extended. 
Vitality responded to the broker on 12 December 2019 and confirmed the cover could be 
extended, but it would need confirmation that Mrs A remained employed with that employer 
for a minimum of 15 hours per week and that she would still be subject to PAYE conditions. 
The broker didnt reply to Vitality.
In early January 2020, Mrs As partner was referred to a neurologist. Vitality authorised this 
consultation. Around a week later, he was referred to another neurologist for a second 
opinion. Vitality again gave authorisation for the consultation. 
Then on 31 January 2020, Mrs A asked Vitality to authorise surgery that had been 
recommended for her partner. Vitality agreed to this. The surgery went ahead on 28 
February 2020.
When Vitality was dealing with the invoices, it noticed that the scheme should have ended 
on 31 January 2020. It cancelled the scheme retrospectively and refunded the premiums it 
had received from Mrs A since then, which amounted to £652.90. Vitality also noticed that it 
had paid some hospital invoices in error for Mrs As partners treatment, and so it retracted 
those payments from the hospital. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She thought Vitality had been 
wrong to authorise surgery on 31 January 2020, if it had thought Mrs As cover ought to have 
ended that day. She noted that Vitality had continued to collect premiums from Mrs A for 
some months after this. The investigator thought that if Vitality hadnt authorised the 
treatment, then Mrs As partner would have had the treatment under the NHS for free. 
However, she also thought Mrs A needed to take some responsibility for the error, because 
Mrs A had thought that her partners cover was due to end on 31 January 2020 but didnt 
query this with Vitality when the authorisation was given. The investigator thought a fair 
outcome would be for Vitality to pay 50% of the claim, less the premiums that should have 
been paid for the cover up to the end of February.
Vitality didnt agree to our investigators recommendations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, the scheme needed to end early because the policyholder (Mrs As 
employer) was going into liquidation. There were four members covered under the scheme, 
including Mrs A. Three of those members then left the scheme before 31 January 2020. And 
so Mrs A was the only remaining member at that time.
In her complaint form to this service, Mrs A says that it came as a surprise to her that the 
claim she made on 31 January 2020 was approved by Vitality, as her employers broker had 
instructed Vitality to cancel the scheme on 31 January 2020. She says she assumed that 
because it was an ongoing claim, this was the reason that the claim was approved. 
Vitality had received instructions from the broker to cancel the scheme as of 31 January 
2020, and had confirmed that it would do so. However, Vitality says that in January 2020, the 
direct debit for the scheme premium had been cancelled. But then Mrs A, in her capacity as 
group secretary for the scheme, called it on 23 January 2020 and arranged for the 
outstanding premium to be paid. And therefore, when Mrs A called it to authorise the 
treatment on 31 January 2020, it had no reason not to do so. 
I disagree with Vitality here. Although the premium was up-to-date for the scheme, Vitality 
knew the scheme should have ended on 31 January 2020. Given that the scheme was in 
arrears in mid-January 2020 and the cover hadnt ended by that point, I cant see anything 
wrong with Mrs A wanting to make sure she brought the arrears up-to-date and that Vitality 
wasnt owed any money. Particularly since Mrs A had made a claim for her partner to see a 
specialist in that month. 
I havent seen the correspondence between Vitality and the broker, as Vitality has only 
provided its notes. Based on these, although Vitality had previously received a request from 
the broker to extend the cover for Mrs A (and therefore her partner), Vitality says it advised 
the broker that it would need confirmation about Mrs As employment before doing so. 
The broker didnt provide that confirmation (I understand thats because Mrs A couldnt meet 
Vitalitys requirements for the cover to be extended), and so it seems to me that Vitality had 
no reason to extend the cover past 31 January 2020. Also, if Vitality thought the scheme 
needed to end on 29 February 2020 for Mrs A rather than 31 January 2020, that doesnt 
explain why it didnt end the scheme on 29 February 2020 and instead continued to collect 
premiums past that date.
I also note that the broker contacted Vitality on 27 February 2020 (which was before the 
surgery took place) to query why the scheme hadnt been cancelled as it ought to have been 
on 31 January 2020. Vitality should have realised at this point that it hadnt cancelled the 
scheme as it should have done, and that it had authorised treatment in error. Even at that 
late stage, it couldve made Mrs A aware of this before the surgery took place. 
Vitality also continued to accept premiums paid by Mrs A, which made it seem as though it 
was happy for her cover to continue, which added to the confusion. Im satisfied that Vitality should have ended the scheme on 31 January 2020. If it had done 
so, it wouldnt have authorised treatment for Mrs As partner on that day. 
So, its apparent that Vitality did make an error. Like the investigator, I think that if Vitality 
hadnt made that error, then Mrs As partner wouldve arranged for the treatment to take 
place under the NHS for free. And so there was a financial loss to Mrs A (and her partner) as 
a result of the error. 
Having said that, Mrs A was group secretary for the scheme, so would have known when the 
scheme was ending. She accepts that she thought her cover was ending on 31 January 
2020, but says that because it was an ongoing claim (the claims made for consultations in 
January 2020 for the same condition had been accepted by Vitality), that was the reason 
Vitality had authorised the surgery. 
I think Mrs As explanation is plausible here. But I agree with our investigator that Mrs A 
couldve easily clarified this with Vitality. If she had done, I expect it wouldve come to light 
that Vitality had made an error and should have ended the cover on 31 January 2020. And 
so it seems appropriate for Mrs A to take some responsibility here too. 
Consequently, I think a reasonable outcome here would be for Vitality to pay 50% of the 
claim. Mrs A has confirmed to us that shes paid around £3,000 of the treatment, which I 
understand is less than 50% of the claim. I therefore dont require Vitality to pay interest on 
its half. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay 
50% of the claim, in line with the remaining scheme terms. It can deduct from the settlement 
the premiums that it should have received up to the end of February 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman