DRN-4076720
The complaint
Mrs I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse money she 
lost to two investment scams.
What happened
Mrs I was looking for investment opportunities online when she was unable to work following 
a surgery. She says she felt under pressure to do something and earn money. She joined an 
online group where people were advising on cryptocurrency investments. 
In September 2022, Mrs I made several payments totalling £12,599.60 in connection with 
two investment opportunities. She says both investments turned out to be a scam. 
Investment 1
Mrs I was approached by one of the members of the online group who she says convinced 
her to send a small amount of money to them to invest on their platform. It isnt clear whether 
this individual worked for an investment firm or ran their own platform. And details about the 
platform are also unknown.
Mrs I says she was asked to send £450 to an account in the UK. When she questioned the 
different name on the account, the individual told her they and their partner used that 
account in the UK, but they were both based in the US. The individual said transferring the 
money to the UK account would be cheaper for Mrs I as there wouldnt be a transfer fee. 
They would transfer the money into their US account and open an account for Mrs I as soon 
as the funds were received. 
Mrs I says that after she made a faster payment from her NatWest account on 6 September, 
the individual stopped responding to her. She messaged the group and was told shed 
probably been scammed.
Investment 2
Another member of the group reached out to Mrs I after she was scammed. She says they 
were messaging each other for a while and the individual said they wanted to help her. They 
told Mrs I about a platform C theyd been using which she could use and possibly recover 
what shed lost. Mrs I says the individual said she could earn up to 3% return per day and 
get a commission if she referred other people. Mrs I says she registered with $400 and was 
able to withdraw the first days interest. (These transactions dont appear on her NatWest 
bank statement.)
Mrs I was then persuaded to send more money to earn a referral commission of $30,000. 
She says she registered ten accounts (referrals) and paid in $1,000. Although shed earned 
her referral commission, Mrs I was unable to withdraw it due to her account access level. 
She was told she needed to pay a further $5,000 to unlock the access level, and she could 
withdraw this amount along with the commission. Mrs I says she sourced this amount by 
using her business accounts overdraft. But she was still unable to make a withdrawal as she 
was told the funds received were less than the required amount due to transaction fees. 
Mrs I says it was at that point she realised shed been scammed again. 
The payments in connection to this scam were made using Mrs Is NatWest debit card. She 
first sent money to a cryptocurrency exchange to convert it into cryptocurrency, before 
sending it on to the investment account with C (which unfortunately ended up in the 
scammers account). 
The following transactions were made from Mrs Is NatWest account in September 2022 
Transaction Date Type Merchant/Payee Amount
6 September Faster Payment J £450.00
6 September Debit card Wyre Payments £179.60
7 September Debit card Wyre Payments £500.00
8 September Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
11 September Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
14 September Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
17 September Debit card Transak.com £500.00
21 September Debit card Coinbase.com £70.00
21 September Debit card Transak.com £200.00
21 September Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
22 September Debit card Transak.com £600
23 September (9:22 am) Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
23 September (9:29 am) Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
23 September (9:37 am) Debit card Transak.com £500.00
23 September (10:13 am) Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
23 September (11:03 am) Debit card Wyre Payments £500.00
23 September (11:33 am) Debit card Wyre Payments £300.00
23 September (3:35 pm) Debit card Transak.com £1,000.00
23 September (6:21 pm) Debit card Coinbase.com £800.00
Total payments £12,599.60
Total credits £0
Total loss £12,599.60
Following the first scam, Mrs I completed a dispute form on NatWests website for services 
not rendered. It declined her claim. When she reported the second scam, NatWest declined 
to offer a refund. It said it believed Mrs I had a reasonable understanding of the risks 
involved in cryptocurrency investments. In its submission to our service, NatWest said it 
wasnt the point of loss as the payments went to Mrs Is own crypto wallet.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest was liable for Mrs Is loss. He thought the disputed 
transactions were spaced out and by the point shed made several transactions in one day 
theyd become established beneficiaries. So, they wouldnt have triggered the banks 
systems. The investigator also considered NatWests actions in relation to the recovery of 
funds after it became aware of the situation. He concluded that chargeback was unlikely to 
be successful, given the payments went to a crypto exchange who had provided the service 
as expected (that being the exchange of money into cryptocurrency).
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision on 
the matter.I issued my provisional decision last month. I said that I intended upholding this complaint, 
and set out the following reasoning:
Investment 1 
Mrs I says she reported that shed been scammed when she disputed the transaction 
with NatWest. Ive reviewed the information NatWest captured on the dispute form 
she completed online, and it doesnt make any reference to her being scammed. Ive 
also checked NatWests website to see if Mrs I would have been presented with an 
option to select scam while completing the dispute form, and it isnt listed as one of 
the options. That isnt unsurprising given the form Mrs I completed was for card 
disputes, which the bank would have relied on for the purposes of considering 
whether recovery was possible under the chargeback scheme. Mrs I didnt make the 
payment using her debit card, she sent the money electronically via the faster 
payment service.
That said, I think NatWest could have made further enquiries when it was clear that 
Mrs I had reported a dispute about a faster payment through the wrong channel. 
Certainly, by the point she made a complaint about its decision to decline her claim 
for both scams, I think NatWest ought to have considered Mrs Is claim using the 
relevant considerations. In this case, the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Mode (CRM) code applies to the faster payment. I cant see that 
NatWest considered whether it should have reimbursed her the payment under that 
code, but Im satisfied it has had the opportunity to do so.
Our investigators view was that Mrs I wasnt entitled to be reimbursed under the 
CRM code as the size of the payment didnt warrant the bank to have provided an 
effective warning. But the provision of an effective warning (or not being expected to 
provide one in some situations) is just one of the considerations under the standards 
that NatWest is expected to meet under the CRM code. The starting principle is that 
a bank should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an authorised push 
payment (APP) scam except in limited circumstances (or exceptions). It is for the 
bank to demonstrate that one or more of the exceptions apply. NatWest hasnt 
asserted that an exception applies. 
Ive also not seen anything so far that leads to me think that one or more of the 
exceptions apply in this case. The exception most relevant here would be whether 
Mrs I had a reasonable basis for belief that (i) the payee was the person she was 
expecting to pay, (ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or (iii) the 
person with whom she transacted was legitimate. I can see she questioned the 
different name on the recipient account and was given an explanation which 
reassured her. And she thought she was dealing with a legitimate person who was 
going to open an investment account for her. 
So, based on the information Ive seen so far, I think Mrs I should be reimbursed the 
full amount of £450 under the CRM code. I also think it would be fair and reasonable 
for NatWest to pay simple interest at 8% per year to this amount as NatWest ought to 
have refunded this payment much earlier in accordance with the principles of the 
code. I consider that interest should be calculated from the date NatWest sent its 
final response to Mrs Is complaint as I believe that its outcome ought to have taken 
the CRM code into consideration. The interest should be calculated until the date of 
settlement.  
Investment 2The payments made in connection to the second scam were all made using a debit 
card. Therefore, the CRM code doesnt apply. While I find the code doesnt apply 
here, that code isnt the full extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in 
cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry 
practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and 
scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result. 
Ive considered that the disputed payments were sent to legitimate crypto platforms. 
I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had warned of crypto exchange and forex 
trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019, Action Fraud published further warnings 
that such scams had tripled in the past year. This type of insight is something that 
regulated businesses, including NatWest, ought to take notice of. 
So, even though Mrs I was transferring funds to a crypto account in her name, 
NatWest ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. While the transfers were made to her own wallet, scams involving 
transfers to crypto accounts were well known to banks by this time and I therefore 
think that where payments were also out of character, potential losses were 
foreseeable to the originating bank.
Ive considered the operation of Mrs Is account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments. I dont consider any of the individual disputed amounts as particularly 
unusual or suspicious such that they ought to have triggered NatWests fraud 
detection system. The largest individual amount that Mrs I sent was £1,000, which in 
my view wasnt that remarkable based on other transactions on her account. 
Additionally, I can see a history of payments to some crypto exchanges prior to the 
transactions Mrs I now disputes. She made five payments to Transak.com only 
months earlier (two in June and three in August; and two payments were for £1,000). 
There was also a payment to Coinbase in August. So, on the face of it, these were 
merchants Mrs I had made payments to before for similar amounts. And she hadnt 
raised any concerns about those payments.
But, given the increased frequency of transactions on 23 September, I think NatWest 
ought to have been concerned that there was a possibility that something wasnt 
right. Within a space of 15 minutes, Mrs I had made three debit card payments 
totalling £2,500 to the same merchant. Certainly, by the time she authorised the 
fourth payment (around 35 minutes later) I consider that it would have been 
reasonable for NatWest to have properly questioned Mrs I before executing her 
authorised instruction. 
Even if she had been sending money to a legitimate crypto platform, it didnt follow 
that Mrs Is money was safe, or that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud 
or a scam. In September 2022, I think NatWest had or ought to have had a good 
enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify the 
risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the customer often first purchases 
cryptocurrency and moves it on to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre 
moving it into their own wallet or account.
Had NatWest done more and warned Mrs I about cryptocurrency scams, Ive no 
reason to doubt that she would have explained the true purpose of her payment. I 
cant see that Mrs I had been given a reason to think she had to hide this information 
from her bank. Neither had she been coached to tell them something different. Im satisfied that Mrs I would have looked further into the investment opportunity in 
general, including whether C was regulated here in the UK or abroad. She could 
have discovered that it wasnt. Indeed, its likely that Mrs I would have come across 
the various warnings about cryptocurrency scams following an intervention from 
NatWest. 
I acknowledge that Mrs I has said she was desperate to make money given her 
situation. But Im persuaded that she would have paid attention to warnings from her 
trusted bank, and that a meaningful intervention would likely have exposed the scam. 
It follows that I also think its more likely than not that the intervention would have 
caused her to stop from going ahead with that fourth payment on 23 September, 
thereby preventing further losses. I therefore currently find that NatWest is liable for 
Mrs Is losses from that point.
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mrs I is partly to blame for what happened. 
She doesnt appear to have carried out sufficient independent research into the 
investment opportunity, or cryptocurrency investments in general to reassure herself 
that the opportunity as presented to her was genuine. What appears to have started 
off as a means of recovering £450 that shed lost to the first scam turned into sending 
several thousand payments without much due diligence. 
Additionally, according to NatWest, Mrs I raised concerns about a payment she made 
to Coinbase in August 2022  just the month prior to the disputed transactions. While 
that payment doesnt form part of this complaint and weve not been told that it was 
made in relation to the scams the disputed payments relate to, its reasonable to 
expect independent research to be carried out to be satisfied that an investment 
opportunity is genuine where its clear that there have been previous instances of 
concern.  
I asked Mrs I about the earlier payments to crypto exchanges which havent been 
disputed, and I questioned her about her claim that she had no investment 
experience at all. Mrs I has explained that those payments simply involved converting 
money into cryptocurrency with the belief that its value would increase over time. 
There was no cryptocurrency trading involved. 
Having given this a lot of thought, I do think that Mrs I ought to bear some 
responsibility for her losses and that compensation should be reduced accordingly. I 
intend concluding that it would be fair to reduce compensation payable in relation to 
the second scam by 20%.
Ive also thought about recovery in relation to earlier payments. But like our 
investigator, I dont think recovery was likely. Although Mrs I was scammed by C, her 
payments went to legitimate crypto exchanges. NatWest could have only raised a 
chargeback against the merchant she paid, not another firm. And given the merchant 
she paid had provided the service (conversion of money into cryptocurrency), a 
chargeback wouldnt have been successful. So, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly 
by not raising a chargeback.
I invited further comments from both parties.
Mrs I agrees that she should take some responsibility for her actions. Shes said shed be 
happy to consider her complaint resolved to her satisfaction if she could be refunded half her 
loss. Mrs Is asked if this is something I consider reasonable, and whether NatWest would 
like to mediate.NatWest accepts my provisional decision. And following our investigator putting forward 
Mrs Is request, its said it agrees with the conclusions reached by the ombudsman following 
an in-depth review of the complaint. And it sees no reason to depart from that. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their response to my provisional decision.
I acknowledge that Mrs I considers a 50% refund of the total loss to be a satisfactory 
resolution to her complaint. But in my provisional decision, I explained why I consider the 
conclusion Ive reached is both fair and reasonable. 
To be clear, these were two different scams. Its not that Ive found that NatWest ought to 
have intervened at the time of the first payment (the first scam) and so it follows it should 
also refund the remaining payments. Ive concluded that NatWest should reimburse the first 
payment under the requirements of the CRM code which it is signed up to. That code 
doesnt apply to the remaining payments (the second scam). In my provisional decision I 
explained why I consider NatWest can be held liable for only the last five debit card 
payments, and why Mrs I should also bear some responsibility in relation to those payments.
In summary, having considered the additional responses Ive received from Mrs I and 
NatWest, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put matters right, National Westminster Bank Plc needs to 
Reimburse Mrs I £450 which she paid in relation to the first scam. NatWest should 
have reimbursed that payment in line with the CRM code much earlier. But because 
it didnt, I think its fair that it adds simple interest at 8% per year on that amount from 
the date of its final response to the date of settlement. 
Refund the last five debit card payments made on 23 September 2022 (see table 
above) in relation to the second scam, making a 20% deduction for contributory 
negligence. Im not making an interest award in this instance as from what Ive seen 
so far, Mrs I was interested in cryptocurrency investment and so its reasonable to 
assume she would have traded on a genuine platform but for the scam. Given the 
volatility with these types of investments, theres no guarantee that Mrs I would have 
made a return.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
put things right for Mrs I as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman