DRN-4468967
The complaint
Mr S complains Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) hasnt dealt with his claim 
fairly on his property insurance policy following an escape of water. He says it should settle 
his full claim and not include the cost of one of the third-party contractors who attended.
Any reference to Highway includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S took out a property insurance policy to cover his home in July 2021. In February 2022, 
following an escape of water from his bathroom, he made a claim on his policy. Highway 
paid Mr S around £7,800 to cover the cost of repairs, including removing and replacing 
wallpaper, flooring and skirting in his dining room. 
Around two months later, in April 2022, Mr S contacted Highway again. He said there was a 
leak from his water supply under the kitchen and a lot of water had escaped into his 
neighbours gardens.
Initially, Highway offered to arrange a leak detection agent (LD1) to attend the property. But 
as they werent immediately available, it agreed to Mr S finding his own agent at their cost. 
Mr Ss leak detection agent (LD2) attended the property but couldnt access the leak. It 
provided a report which says the leak site was outside and full excavation works were 
needed. They also said Mr S had reported water damage inside his home from this leak. As 
LD2 couldnt access the leak, Mr S and Highway agreed during a call that LD1 should 
attend. Highway has given us a recording of this conversation.
When LD1 attended Mr Ss property, they were unable to access the leak site as they also 
couldnt carry out the necessary excavation work. So Highway instructed a third leak 
detection agent (LD3) who identified and repaired the leak. Highway covered the cost of 
LD1 and LD3 under the policys trace and access cover but it said it wouldnt cover the full 
cost of LD2 anymore as the policy limit had been reached. Mr S didnt think this was fair as 
he didnt think LD1 shouldve been instructed. Highway says Mr S wanted LD1 to attend and 
insisted they carry out unnecessary works even when they made it clear they couldnt help.
Highway has declined to cover Mr Ss claim for repairs to the inside of his property including 
the flooring, skirting and wallpaper. Whilst it accepts there was limited damage caused 
during the trace and access work, it doesnt accept the water damage to the inside of his 
property is related to the external leak. Instead, it thinks Mr S is claiming for damage caused 
during the leak in February 2022 which he hadnt repaired. So, its pre-existing. Mr S doesnt 
agree. But he told Highway and our Investigator he hadnt replaced all his flooring or any of 
his wallpaper following the first leak.
As Mr S was unhappy, he complained to our service. Our Investigator upheld the complaint 
in part. She didnt think LD1s cost should be covered as part of the claim. And she thought 
Highway should settle Mr Ss claim for the water damage to the inside of his property, less 
the amount it had paid under the previous claim for works that remained outstanding. Neither 
party accepted our Investigators view so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision at the beginning of November 2023. My findings are below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, I plan to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and not in the way he wants, I know hell be very 
disappointed. Ill explain why.
Cost of trace and access
The limit for trace and access works under Mr Ss policy is £5,000. Highway has said the 
combined cost of the three leak detection agents is around £5253. So its covered the cost of 
the two agents it instructed and its offered Mr S around £714 towards the cost of LD2. That 
means hes out of pocket by around £200, which he thinks is unfair. At the moment, I agree.
Ive listened to the recording of the call when Mr S asked to instruct LD1 as his agent hadnt 
been able to find the leak. During this call, he mentioned a leak outside, a lot of concrete and 
he said on two occasions that groundwork was needed  once referring to two days of 
groundwork. 
I appreciate Mr S couldve been clearer during this call that the leak was outside his house. 
And I accept he sent the report too late for Highway to review before LD1 attended. But Im 
currently satisfied Highway had enough information during the call to question Mr S more 
about the location of the leak and insist on waiting for the report before making any 
decisions. I can also see Highway told Mr S it would cover the cost of LD2 on several 
occasions  and I think he relied on this when instructing them. So I dont currently think its 
fair for Highway to include the cost of LD1 instead of LD2 under Mr Ss trace and access 
limit.
I note Highway has said Mr S insisted LD1 carry out some trace and access work when they 
arrived at his property. But LD1 was an agent of Highway and shouldve followed its 
instruction. I think its more likely they had enough information on arrival at Mr Ss property to 
know the leak was outside and they wouldnt be able to carry out the trace and access 
works. So I think they shouldve left or confirmed with Highway before continuing.
Water damage inside the property
Mr S has claimed the cost of repairing the water damage to the inside of his property as he 
says it was caused by the external leak in April 2022. To support this, hes provided a quote 
from LD2 for repair work it says is necessary. But in this case, I dont think hes given us 
enough to show what hes claiming for is more likely a result of this leak. And in a claim of 
this nature, its for him to do so.
Ive looked very carefully through all of the evidence Ive been given including the report from 
the leak detection agents and a contractor who inspected Mr Ss property. And none say the 
external leak caused damage to inside his property. Whilst LD2 does reference the internal 
water damage, theres no evidence they traced the damage back to the external leak 
themselves but instead it seems they relied on what Mr S had told them about the damage. I 
think its unlikely they were aware of the previous leak in February 2022  or the previous 
damage  otherwise I think they wouldve mentioned it in their report.
Ive also looked at the photos of Mr Ss property from February and around April 2022. And 
Ive considered what he said about not replacing the full floor or the wallpaper after his first 
claim. I dont currently think Highway has acted unreasonably in declining this part of the 
claim as it seems likely to me the damage claimed for is pre-existing. And at the moment, 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence its a direct cause of the escape of water in April 2022.Mr S says there was a second leak in April 2022 from inside the property. So I presume he 
thinks the damage may have been caused by that. But hes not given us evidence of this 
and none of the reports show leaks within the property. So I dont accept what hes said. 
Highway accepts there was limited damage to Mr Ss home caused by the trace and access 
work  in particular, holes in his wall and floor. Its said it would cover the cost of putting this 
right as part of the trace and access cover. That means its also subject to the trace and 
access limit of £5,000. And based on what Ive seen so far, I think thats fair in this case.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a Final Decision. Mr S 
didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline set. Highway said it had no 
comments to make unless Mr S replied with any additional information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think Highway should:
Remove the cost of LD1 from the amount its covered under the trace and access limit 
and cover the cost of LD2 instead. If Mr S has already paid LD2 for the trace and access 
work, Highway should reimburse him the amount he paid plus 8% interest from the date 
he made the payment to the date of settlement* upon receipt of evidence hes paid them.
Assess and cover the cost of repairing the damage directly caused by the trace and 
access work up to the overall trace and access policy limit. If Mr S has already paid to 
repair this damage, Highway should reimburse the amount he paid up to the trace and 
access policy limit once he provides an itemised receipt showing what hes paid. It 
should add 8% interest to this from the date he made the payment to the date of 
settlement*.
*If Highway considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off and give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and direct 
Highway Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman