DRN-3199743
The complaint
Mr B complains about charges PSA Finance UK Limited, trading as Free2Move Lease 
(F2M) asked him to pay when he returned a hire car. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
F2M have already agreed to waive the damage charges that were identified during the 
vehicle inspection. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances, but it does still leave a 
charge of £600 for missing service records.
Mr B disputes that charge as he says the service records were returned with the car.
Theres conflicting evidence in the inspection reports; two of which are provided by a 
company Ill call C who did the initial inspection, and a final inspection completed by a 
company Ill call M. M inspected the car on 27 July 2020 and couldnt find any service 
documents. Ive seen two reports from C; one says there were no service records and the 
other makes no mention of that.
Im persuaded, on balance, that the service records were probably present when the car was 
initially collected. I say that because:
I find the version of the inspection report from C that Mr B has sent us to be most 
likely to be the original document. Im persuaded that the other version has most 
probably been amended at a later point. I say that because:
oThe second report doesnt include the agents signature and the first does. I 
think its likely the original document would contain both signatures.
oThe area where the agents signature would be is directly below the area 
where theres a text box detailing the missing service. That box isnt present 
on the report provided by Mr B and I think its likely that a new text box has 
been added that has obscured or overwritten the area where the signature 
was on the original report.
oTheres an inaccuracy on the second report. That report says there were no 
keys and the subsequent report by M doesnt. I think that puts further 
compelling weight on the argument that the second report from C was 
completed at some point after the car was collected. 
So, I think the most reliable report on the date of collection makes no reference to 
any missing service history.
Whilst the report from M does suggest the service history was missing, this report 
was completed about two and a half months after the car was returned. I dont think it 
can therefore be considered to be as reliable as the original report as the car will 
have been moved and there will have been opportunities for the documents to go 
missing. 
Whilst I understand that during the pandemic there have been unusual 
circumstances that may have necessitated some changes in inspection practices,   
Mr B wasnt given an opportunity to be present when the car was inspected for a 
second time. The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association who provide the 
industry guidelines on what is considered fair wear and tear at the end of a contract 
says it is recommended that the driver (or a nominated representative) is present 
when the vehicle is collected. Mr B wasnt given an opportunity to attend Ms 
inspection and I think that disadvantaged him. If he was given an opportunity to 
attend Ms inspection he would have been likely to be able to explain the 
whereabouts of the documents.
For all of those reasons I dont think it is reasonable for F2M to charge Mr B for the missing 
service records.
  
Putting things right
F2M should waive the missing service charge.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to 
waive the charge they have asked Mr B to pay for the missing services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman