DRN-3230232
The complaint
Mr R complains that Equifax Limited made a mistake with his data.
Mr R wants Equifax to compensate him for the impact that Equifaxs mistake has had on 
him.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr R noticed an incorrect missed payment entry on his Equifax credit report. 
Mr R also said that his credit report incorrectly showed that hed made several cash 
withdrawals using his credit card when he hadnt.
Mr R complained and in July 2021, Equifax partially upheld his complaint. It offered to pay 
Mr R £40 to apologise for the technical error and not responding to him within the timescale 
it had given. Equifax also said it would refund any monthly charges hed paid since bringing 
the problem to Equifaxs attention. This brought its offer to £48.
Mr R didnt accept this offer. He said hed spent many hours on the phone trying to sort the 
problem out. Mr R said that because of the incorrect data, he didnt apply for a loan to repay 
his high interest credit card. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. She explained that 
lenders couldnt see the missed payment markers  these only appeared on Mr Rs 
dashboard. The investigator didnt think that any third parties had seen incorrect information. 
The investigator said that according to Equifax, the information about cash withdrawals had 
been added by Mr Rs credit card company. She thought Equifax responded reasonably 
when it suggested that either Mr R contact his credit company or Equifax could raise a 
dispute on his behalf
Mr R isnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He thinks Equifax is in breach of 
the General Data Protection Regulation by holding the wrong information about him. He says 
none of his creditors have placed any remarks against him and he hasnt missed payments. 
Mr R says Equifaxs old system didnt have these kinds of problems.
The investigator told Mr R that her view of his complaint hasnt changed. As Mr R doesnt 
accept the proposed outcome, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do this. But that doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling about the problems hes faced trying to sort 
everything out with Equifax. Mistakes sometimes happen, so when they do, I look at whether 
the credit reference agency involved  in this case Equifax  has taken the right steps to put 
things right. I dont want to disappoint Mr R, but Im satisfied that Equifax doesnt need to do 
more than its already done or offered to do.
I can see that it was a shock to Mr R when he saw an entry on his Equifax dashboard 
referring to the number of months since payment missed when hed not missed any 
payments. Equifax says this happened due to a technical error where its system recognised 
some Q entries on Mr Rs credit file as missed payments instead of queries to lenders. 
Although this was unfortunate, Im satisfied that the missed payment entry wasnt visible to 
anyone other than Mr R. So, Equifaxs mistake shouldnt have affected Mr Rs ability to 
obtain credit in the meantime. 
I can also see that even though it took some time for Equifax to send Mr R its final response, 
it did tell him in April 2021 and again in June 2021 that there had been a technical error and 
that no missed payments had actually been reported. So, although Mr R wanted the problem 
resolved, he shouldve been aware that his credit file didnt contain any missed payment 
markers. 
I can appreciate Mr Rs concern about applying for credit after he noticed the references to 
missed payments. But as Ive said above, this was because of a known technical error that 
only affected Mr Rs dashboard. Potential lenders couldnt see the information and I dont 
have any evidence to show that Mr R was refused credit because of any errors on his 
Equifax credit file. 
Although Mr R wanted Equifax to confirm in writing that it was okay for him to apply for 
credit, I dont think this wouldve been a decision that Equifax could make on his behalf. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly require Equifax to compensate Mr R for something that didnt 
happen. 
Mr R thought that the investigator hadnt dealt with his point about refunding the monthly 
fees that hes been paying to Equifax. But according to Equifax, it only received one monthly 
subscription of £7.95 between Mr R complaining and Equifax sending its final response. 
Equifax has already offered to refund this fee  this seems fair.
Mr R recently sent this service a screenshot of part of his Equifax dashboard. Hes unhappy 
that it refers to a period of months since the last negative entry. But as Equifax explained to 
Mr R, Q is classed as a negative entry, so I cant say that his dashboard is wrong. 
If Mr R remains concerned about the Q entries on his credit file, I recommend that he either 
speaks to the lenders concerned or asks Equifax to do this on his behalf. He should also do 
the same if hes unhappy about the cash withdrawal entries.
Overall, I consider that Equifax has done and offered enough to resolve Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that if it hasnt already done so, Equifax Limited should pay Mr R £48 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman