DRN-3997858
The complaint
Mr H complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) incorrectly charged him for a duplicated 
international payment. 
What happened
Mr H says in mid-July 2022, he made an online international payment for £25,000. Mr H 
says in early August 2022 he had a card payment declined on his HSBC bank account and 
discovered this was because he had been charged in excess of £3,400 for a duplicated 
international payment loss, which put his bank account into overdraft. Mr H says he has no 
recollection of requesting for the international payment to be made twice, particularly as he 
wouldnt have had the funds to do so. 
Mr H says he was never informed of a second payment by HSBC and only ever received a 
confirmation of the one payment he made, nor was he ever told he would be liable for the 
cancelled international payment. Mr H says when he initially contacted HSBC an advisor 
informed him the charges would be refunded but that didnt happen, and he now faces a 
large overdraft on his personal current account, and he is struggling financially as a result. 
Mr H feels HSBC shouldnt have initiated the second payment knowing he had insufficient 
funds to make this payment and it should refund the foreign exchange rate charges and any 
interest and charges applied to his account as a result. 
HSBC says Mr H did input the international payment twice online and he would have been 
informed before submitting any payment request, that he could face a loss should the 
payment not proceed for any reason. HSBC have said the second payment didnt go ahead 
but Mr H was liable for the loss in the booked exchange rate and any other bank costs 
relating to the payment not proceeding. 
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says there was insufficient evidence to show Mr H had instructed HSBC to make 
a second payment. The investigator felt HSBC had highlighted the second payment was a 
possible duplicate and it should have raised further enquiries/assessments before 
processing the payment, which would have avoided the charges incurred. The investigator 
highlighted that assessing a potential duplicate payment after payment processing had 
occurred was futile. The investigator felt Mr H shouldnt suffer the exchange rate loss and 
this should be refunded along with any bank charges and interest as a direct result of this. In 
addition, the investigator felt HSBC should pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr H to be informed his bank account was 
overdrawn and he was unable to make a transaction due to lack of funds, following a foreign 
exchange (FX) loss being charged  something he knew nothing about at that time.  
When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC acted reasonably when it debited Mr 
Hs bank account with a foreign exchange loss, following a duplicated international payment 
having been instructed. 
Both HSBC and Mr H have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of 
events here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made 
as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not 
to say I havent considered everything  I have. But its just that I dont need to comment on 
each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable.
Mr Hs complaint centres around two main issues, firstly that he never instructed two 
international payments of £25,000 to Pakistan in mid-July 2022, as he wouldnt have had the 
funds to do so. Secondly, the charges that HSBC have deducted in any event were never 
advised to him and are disproportionate and unfair even if a duplicate payment had been 
made.  
The first thing to say is that I have needed to establish whether in all probability, if Mr H 
instructed two international payments of £25,000 in mid July 2022, or not. Mr H says he only 
ever instructed one payment that day and had only received one confirmation advice from 
HSBC and wasnt ever informed a duplicate payment was attempted and declined, resulting 
in the FX loss charged to his bank account of over £3,400.
From the information available to me I cant say Im fully persuaded by Mr Hs argument that 
he never instructed the two payments. I say this because Mr H has provided to this service a 
screen shot of the £25,000 international payment he says he made to Pakistan on 18 July 
2022 and referred to in earlier phone calls he made to HSBC. This screen shot shows a 
payment with an exchange rate of 249.060387 and this differs from the advice notice he 
received from HSBC which shows an exchange rate of 248.342029, which Mr H has 
accepted was correct. So, with that in mind I can only say in all probability Mr H did make the 
second payment even though he may not recall doing so. Its not clear why a second 
payment attempt was made by Mr H here other than perhaps he may have believed the first 
payment he instructed some 36 minutes earlier, hadnt gone through. 
What is important is the charge of in excess of £3,400 to Mr Hs bank account relates to an 
FX loss incurred by HSBC when it reversed the second transaction because of lack of funds 
available to meet that FX contract. So, here there are two parts to the payment instructions, 
the first part is Mr H entering into a FX contract to purchase the foreign currency and the 
second is to make the payment having secured the FX rate. Here, as Mr H seems to have 
inadvertently made a duplicate payment, albeit unintentionally, I cant say that was HSBCs 
fault. I have looked at the payment process and I can see that during the payment journey, 
Mr H would have seen on screen at the time of entering into the FX contract, the following 
alert: 
Important information: 
Select continue to accept the rate above, if applicable. If this is cancelled by us, the payee bank or any other bank used to send the payment and the exchange rate has changed, you 
could get back less than the original amount. 
HSBCs process is for Mr H to book the exchange rate for the payment he wished to make, 
as this is required to establish the amount of currency it will send to the beneficiary, and its 
for Mr H to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet that payment  like the first 
payment he made around half an hour earlier. But here no funds were available to make that 
second payment and that meant HSBC needed to reverse the FX contract, resulting in the 
loss Mr H incurred. And while I have some sympathy when Mr H feels this is unjust, that is 
why the warning notice referred to earlier is in place- after all I am satisfied Mr H instructed 
both payments on that day. 
So, I cant say HSBCs process has meant that Mr H has been treated unfairly here as it 
would have needed to book the currency before the payment amount could be established 
and that is understandable. What is important is HSBC provided Mr H with the appropriate 
warning of potential losses, if the FX trade was cancelled, and here it had little option other 
than to cancel the transaction due to lack of funds available to meet it. With that in mind I 
cant hold HSBC responsible for the FX loss it passed on to Mr H, as it would always require 
its customers to enter into a FX contract before making any international payments, intended 
or otherwise.  
HSBC have accepted the second payment attempt was a potential duplicate, but this was 
only established after the FX exchange contract was entered into by Mr H, and so it wouldnt 
be reasonable of me to tell HSBC to alter its process or procedures to accommodate the 
duplicated payment Mr H seems to have made. HSBC did ultimately notice that the payment 
was a duplicate and it wasnt actually completed, but by this point  it had already 
undertaken the actions that it applied a fee for. I dont think itd be fair in the circumstances 
here to say that HSBC should have noticed it was a duplicate before it actually did, given 
what Ive said above about its processes and the warnings it provided. Its the FX fees in 
relation to the exchange contract, applied prior to the payment that HSBC is holding Mr H 
liable for, and Im persuaded that its doing so fairly here.
Having said that, Im also of the view HSBC could have been clearer with Mr H when the 
second transaction failed. I havent seen any evidence to show Mr H was ever told of the 
cancellation of the second payment he attempted, or formally advised of the FX loss and the 
amount that would be debited to his bank account as a result. Mr H only learnt of this when 
he attempted to make a payment from his bank account which would have been confusing 
and upsetting for him. 
Also, at the time Mr H complained about the debit to his bank account, its clear that initially 
the customer service member of staff was unaware that two payments had been attempted 
and then  created further confusion by suggesting the successful payment debited to his 
bank account would be reversed at some point, which wasnt the case. Having listened to a 
number of telephone call recordings on 3 August 2022, HSBC werent able to clearly explain 
to Mr H what the charge of around £3,400 related to and created further confusion 
suggesting it was a potential fraud when it wasnt. It also seems Mr H spent several hours on 
the phone trying to get through to the right department and promised return phone calls 
werent made, adding to what would have been a stressful time for him. That said after 
having listened to numerous call recordings, theres no evidence to suggest HSBC ever 
agreed for the FX loss to be refunded as Mr H says. 
That said, given the service errors made by HSBC here and what was in all probability a 
genuine mistake made by Mr H, while I cant tell HSBC it must absorb the £3,418.12 FX loss 
here, I feel its appropriate HSBC show some forbearance and support with regards to his 
current financial position. So, given Mr H has informed HSBC he would have difficulties paying back the amount charged for the FX loss, I would expect HSBC to look at Mr Hs 
position positively and sympathetically. 
Finally, given Mr H was given misinformation about the international  transaction when he 
queried it with HSBC and it never informed him of the cancellation, nor of any details of the 
loss he had incurred  it should pay Mr H £150 by way of apology. 
While both Mr H and HSBC will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome. 
Both Mr H and HSBC responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr H and HSBC until 24 March 2023 to accept or reject my provisional decision, 
HSBC have accepted my provisional decision, but Mr H didnt agree and added further 
comments for me to consider. Mr H has said that if he had attempted a second payment a 
security code should have been generated but it wasnt, and that was something his branch 
manager had also questioned. 
I understand the point Mr H makes here but HSBC have told this service that a security code 
is only generated on the first payment to a new beneficiary. But here Mr H had attempted a 
second payment and so this wouldnt have generated a security code. As I have said in my 
provisional decision the screen shot Mr H provided to this service, shows an attempted 
payment at an exchange rate that matches HSBCs records of the second payment Mr H 
denies ever making, so its fair to say a second payment attempt was made here, even if Mr 
H has no recollection of that. 
Whats important to say here and as I have said in my provisional decision, Mr H has been 
charged for the reversal of the foreign exchange contract he entered into prior to the 
payment being processed by HSBC and I cant tell HSBC it must absorb that cost, as it 
hasnt made any errors here. Afterall, as I said in my provisional decision Mr H would have 
been provided with a warning about a potential exchange loss if a payment couldnt be made 
and unfortunately that is what happened here. 
I do understand this has had an impact on Mr Hs financial position and that is why Ive 
asked HSBC to show some forbearance and support and look at Mr Hs position 
sympathetically. 
With that in mind I see no need to add or alter my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr H £150 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused, when it failed to inform him of the exchange rate loss or the cancellation of the 
second attempted payment.
Given Mr H has informed HSBC UK Bank plc he may have difficulty repaying the amount of 
the FX fee charged to his bank account, it should show some forbearance and support and 
look at Mr Hs financial position positively and sympathetically.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr H £150 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused, when it failed to inform him of the exchange rate loss or the cancellation of the 
second attempted payment.
Given Mr H has informed HSBC UK Bank plc he may have difficulty repaying the amount of 
the FX fee charged to his bank account, it should show some forbearance and support and 
look at Mr Hs financial position positively and sympathetically.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman