DRN-2825724
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) declined his claim after his 
phone was stolen. Mr F claimed under the mobile phone insurance policy provided with his 
bank account.
What happened
Mr Fs phone was stolen from his hand while using it. He reported the theft to the police, 
activated the phone location finder, and made a claim with AGI. AGI asked Mr F for proof of 
ownership and provided him with a detailed explanation of what it needed and how Mr F 
could obtain the information. While Mr F provided some information, he didnt give AGI the 
information it asked for, and some was for a different phone.
Because Mr F didnt provide the proof of ownership AGI needed, it declined his claim. Mr F 
complained to AGI, but it said without the proof it wouldnt reconsider its position.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said AGI had asked for proof of ownership, 
which was in line with the terms of the policy. As Mr F didnt provide it, our investigator didnt 
think AGI had unfairly declined his claim.
Mr F didnt agree. He said hed provided as much information as he could and that his phone 
provider hadnt been helpful when he asked for information to prove ownership.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain.
Firstly, I want to say how sorry I am that Mr F experienced this theft. It mustve been 
upsetting for him to have the phone taken from his hand.
My role, here, is to decide whether AGI fairly declined Mr Fs claim for the reasons it gave 
and in line with the policy. In the event of theft, the policy requires Mr F to:
tell his insurer as soon as he can;
tell his phone company (if claiming for call charges), and
tell the police and obtain a crime reference number.
Mr F reported the theft to the police, his phone company and his insurer, so he satisfied 
those conditions of his policy. This isnt disputed so I wont go into further detail. 
The issue is that AGI doesnt think Mr F provided appropriate evidence to demonstrate that 
he owned the phone he was claiming for. The policy says,
proof of ownership may be required in the event of a claimIf you dont have any proof of 
ownership we may decline your claim. 
So, I think it was reasonable that AGI asked for evidence.
Mr F said he activated the phone location finder and put it into lost mode after seeking help 
from the phone manufacturer. He provided a screen shot showing erase pending on his 
phone account; a copy of his bill; an email from his phone company, and a receipt for his 
replacement phone. But AGI said:
the erase pending message was for a different phone model;
the bill showed charges for the correct phone number but didnt confirm the unique 
number for the model of handset Mr F reported stolen, and
the phone company email only confirmed the unique identifying phone details Mr F 
supplied it with, rather than confirming it had a record of that handset. 
So, AGI didnt think Mr F had adequately shown that he owned the model of phone he said 
was stolen.
Mr F said the model showing on his account was different because it had been updated to 
show his replacement phone. However, Mr F took the screenshot of the account before hed 
ordered the new phone, so it cant have been the replacement.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that AGI fairly declined Mr Fs claim. He didnt provide 
the evidence AGI asked for and Im of the view that Mr F has only shown ownership of a 
different model to that for which he claimed. For that reason, I think AGI declined Mr Fs 
claim in line with the policy which clearly says that it can ask for evidence of ownership and 
decline the claim if evidence is not supplied. I wont be asking AGI to settle the claim.
I should point out that AGI confirmed it will reconsider his claim if Mr F provides the email 
which the manufacturer wouldve sent to him showing the exact model of phone he removed 
from his account. I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman