DRN-3411548
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse the money that he lost to a scam.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr C received an e-mail at work by someone identifying themselves as 
his company director. He was asked to send a message to the mobile number provided so 
that he could carry out a task for this person. After exchanging messages via Mr Cs mobile, 
he was asked to purchase gift cards on behalf of the director for a presentation. Mr C 
believed the messages were genuine, so he purchased the cards, totalling around £2,100 
across 31 transactions and sent pictures of the back of the cards to who he believed was his 
director. 
It was only later that Mr C realised he had been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo to 
raise a dispute so that his payments could be reimbursed. But Monzo didnt think it should 
reimburse the money as it said it didnt do anything wrong and Mr C had authorised the 
payments via chip and PIN and Apple pay verification on his phone. Mr C remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Monzo shouldve 
identified the payments as suspicious due to their frequency and that the account balance 
was drained and then replenished by Mr C before making further payments. But he said that 
even if Monzo had contacted Mr C, it wouldnt have made a difference because, given the 
nature of the payments, Monzo wouldve contacted Mr C to confirm whether it was him 
making them. And because it isnt in dispute that Mr C made the payments the scam 
wouldnt have been stopped. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Monzo shouldve stopped 
his card and called him to discuss the payments to ask him why he was making them. And if 
it had, then the scam wouldve been discovered and stopped.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr C feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
The question I have to consider is whether its fair and reasonable to instruct Monzo to 
reimburse Mr C and so to bear the cost for the money that has been lost here. Given that the 
transactions in question were authorised by Mr C - as explained above  in order to make 
such an instruction, I would need to be satisfied both that Monzo should have recognised 
that the purchases that Mr C were making were potentially of concern, so that they should 
have prevented him from making the transactions before speaking to him about them, and 
also that any conversation that they had with Mr C would have demonstrated that Mr C was 
in fact in the process of being scammed.
Mr C was purchasing the gift cards in person at a high street supermarket. I feel this point is 
significant as it would be unusual for a bank to prevent a person from buying items in person 
at such a well-known store unless the transactions were very unusual. Its also not in dispute 
that Mr C authorised the payments in the supermarket with both chip and PIN and Apple pay 
verification, which Monzo wouldnt have found suspicious. Mr C disagrees with this point, 
saying that the transactions were of such an unusual nature that they should have been 
recognised by Monzo and prevented accordingly. 
Our investigator felt Monzo couldve contacted Mr C after he drained his balance and added 
more money to his account. And I agree that at this point Mr Cs transactions shouldve been 
of some concern to Monzo due to the amount of transactions and the amount that had been 
spent. But I dont think this means that Monzo should return the money Mr Cs lost here. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr C has stated that if the transactions had been prevented, and if he was challenged as to 
why he was making these transactions, that he would have realised that a potential fraud 
was taking place and that he would have checked with his company whether they had in fact 
asked him to purchase these gift cards. 
I can appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about this matter, but I believe its one that hes 
making with the benefit of hindsight. Given the value of the individual payments, the fact 
Mr C was using his card in a store he had used before, and verified the payments either 
through chip and PIN and Apple pay verification, Id have expected a proportionate response 
from Monzo. Monzo are obliged to act in their customers best interests. And the main 
potential risk based on the pattern of Mr Cs spending was that his card and PIN might have 
been compromised. So, a proportionate response would be to have checked that it was in 
fact Mr C that was making the payments. And its not disputed here that Mr C was making 
the transactions. So, I dont think its reasonable to expect Monzo to have gone further and  
to have asked questions about the reasons for making chip and PIN and Apple pay 
verification in a supermarket once it was reassured it was Mr C making these payments. 
Given that Mr C believed hed been instructed to purchase the gift cards by his director and 
had been given a plausible reason as to why these gift cards were needed, I feel that its 
more likely than not, on balance, that if Monzo had asked him to confirm if he was making 
the transactions, then that level of intervention from Monzo wouldnt have stopped the scam 
or made Mr C think there was something wrong. Thats because Mr C believed, at the time, 
he was making the transactions on behalf of a company director. 
To be clear, I do sympathise with Mr C here but it remains the case that I dont feel that I can 
fairly or reasonably instruct Monzo to reimburse him, because I dont feel that overall Monzo 
have treated him unfairly. 
So, Im not going to ask Monzo to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman