DRN-4050169
The complaint
Mr S complained that HSBC UK Bank plc gave him incorrect information about a £19.99 
transaction which he had queried. 
What happened
On 20 January 2023, Mr S contacted HSBC through chat. He asked for more details about a 
£19.99 payment from his account on 12 January, which he said he didnt recall. HSBCs 
adviser said it had been an online payment that was originally made on 10 June 2022, for a 
direct marketing catalogue merchant. The adviser provided the name of the company, and 
said it might have been for a magazine purchase.
Mr S replied that 10 June was a very long time ago, and he didnt remember making any 
magazine purchase. He was told to ring HSBCs fraud team. Mr S rang the fraud team and 
they discussed the transaction.  Five minutes into the call, Mr S realised that he did 
recognise the transaction, which he said he remembered was for a toy, and which he had 
authorised himself on 10 June. 
Mr S then said to the phone adviser that he wasnt happy about the chat adviser. He said 
that six years previously, there had been a fraud on his account with £10,000 being taken 
from his account, when he said HSBC had let him down. He said the chat adviser giving him 
incorrect information had brought back memories of that, and hed been very anxious. He 
said that six years previously he hadnt been aware of his rights. The adviser tried to look 
back to the 2017 transaction, but she didnt have access to the information. She transferred 
him to another team. 
Mr S asked the new adviser why HSBC hadnt provided him with the details of the recipient 
bank in 2017. The adviser said the scam had been investigated at the time and hed had a 
response, which had said that Mr S had authorised the payment so it wouldnt be possible 
for HSBC to refund him. Mr S said he was now more mature and wanted to know exactly 
what the policies were, and it was his right to know. He wanted the adviser to log a 
complaint, saying the chat adviser had given incorrect information, which had caused him 
distress because hed previously been a victim of fraud.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it had reviewed the chat logs and could see no 
errors made by its staff. It said that it was sorry for any undue stress that may have been 
caused, but its staff member had dealt with his enquiries in line with HSBs policies and 
procedures.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ss bank statement didnt show any record of a £19.99 payment 
on 10 June 2022. So he could understand why Mr S was confused by what the adviser said. 
The chat also hadnt provided details about whether the payment was a subscription, or 
recurring payment, which caused uncertainty for Mr S. The chat adviser had also told him to 
contact the fraud team, which caused inconvenience. But as Mr S had been able to confirm 
the same day that the payment was genuine, it had quickly been put right and there was no 
financial loss involved. The investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought that £50 would 
be fair compensation. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He said he expected at least £150 compensation. He said it was about 
his bank having provided incorrect information, inconvenience, distress, poor customer 
service, and the fact HSBC had dismissed his complaint. He said it wasnt about financial 
loss. Mr S said it had lasted more than a few days, but was actually weeks in terms of 
distress and inconvenience, and it had also taken time and effort to report to this service, 
and he felt we hadnt understood the level of his distress. He said he wanted more 
compensation. 
Mr S said he wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of Mr Ss complaint arent in dispute, and Ive set them out above. So my decision 
relates to what compensation, if any, HSBC should pay Mr S. 
When this service considers compensation, we look at two factors: financial loss, and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr S didnt suffer any financial loss, because he had authorised the disputed transaction 
himself.  
Looking at compensation for distress and inconvenience, the events show that Mr S 
disputed the transaction through chat at 12.40am on 20 January. It was closed by the 
adviser at 1.24 am because Mr S hadnt replied, and he picked it up again at 7.16am. He 
was then told to ring the fraud team. That conversation took place early in the afternoon and 
that was when Mr S realised the £19.99 payment had been a genuine transaction. So the 
length of time when Mr S might have been worried that this was fraudulent was relatively 
short.  I dont think that HSBC did anything which meant it could have been resolved more 
quickly. I also find that it was reasonable for HSBC to have told Mr S to ring its specialist 
fraud team, when he disputed the transaction.
Mr S is critical of the chat adviser, who gave him the name of the direct marketing merchant, 
and the registered company name, and said it might have been for a magazine purchase. In 
fact Mr S later realised it was a genuine transaction and told the next adviser that had been 
to buy a toy. But I dont think the chat adviser intended to be misleading, and its possible 
that she said it might have been a magazine in order to be helpful and possibly jog a 
customers memory. The adviser wouldnt have had information about what the payment 
was for, just the recipient organisation. So I dont think she acted wrongly when she 
suggested that it might have been for a magazine. 
It could have been helpful if the chat adviser had said whether it was a one-off payment, or a 
subscription, which might have helped Mr S identify the payment. It could also have been 
helpful to have explained some possible reasons why the payment might have taken so long 
to reach the account  for example if an item purchased had not been available immediately, 
or other reasons  which might have helped Mr S identify the payment.  I consider that the 
£50 compensation recommended by the investigator is very fair for this. 
I recognise that Mr S says he had been scammed six years earlier, and this had an impact 
on him. Im sorry to hear that anyone has been a victim of a scam. But I cant consider the circumstances of that occasion. After Mr S realised the £19.99 payment was genuine, his 
focus switched to the previous complaint, and discussion about that features significantly in 
Mr Ss complaint calls with HSBC in relation to this complaint. The phone recording says that 
Mr S had received a final response to that previous complaint at that time. I dont know 
whether or not Mr S took that complaint further. But either it would have been considered at 
the time, or the opportunity to bring that complaint to this service would have expired some 
years ago. So I cant consider anything about that earlier complaint  for example whether 
HSBC acted rightly or wrongly at that time - in relation to this issue.
While I recognise that anyone who has been the victim of a fraud is likely to be anxious 
about it happening again, I cant agree that a scam six years earlier is a reason why Mr S 
should receive additional compensation for a different issue now. Compensation relates to 
what a bank has done wrong and the impact it has caused. This complaint relates to a 
£19.99 transaction which was resolved as genuinely carried out by Mr S within 24 hours of 
raising it. Although Mr S has argued that the distress lasted much longer because he chose 
to complain and chose to contact this service, I dont consider the distress could reasonably 
have lasted longer than the time during which he thought he might have been scammed 
again. That was around 24 hours.  So I consider that higher compensation here would be 
disproportionate.
Mr S was clearly unhappy and assertive when he spoke to the later advisers about the 
impact hed felt because of the fraud six years earlier. But HSBCs advisers dealt with his 
comments calmly, so I dont consider it would be reasonable to award additional 
compensation for the way HSBC handled Mr Ss complaint.
So I consider that £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman