DRN-2132389
The complaint
Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss M bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Ms credit card application had a section for PPI, which offered her the choice to take it 
out or turn it down. The option to buy PPI was selected, the option to turn it down was left 
blank, and Miss M signed the form to confirm her choices. So I think its most likely that 
Barclays made Miss M aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss M, which means they had to check it was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Miss M was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and covered her for 
much longer. Its worth bearing in mind that if Miss M was made redundant, she wouldve 
needed any redundancy pay-out to cover all her costs, not just her credit card. So her 
redundancy entitlement wouldve only lasted so long, whereas the PPI wouldve covered her 
for up to 12 months in any one claim  and it meant she could effectively protect any pay-out 
or savings and use them for other things. I also understand Miss Ms family may have been 
happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And 
this credit card was Miss Ms sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Barclays had recommended she rely on other individuals to pay it. Overall, it looks like the 
PPI couldve really been useful for Miss M in case she needed to claim.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Miss M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Miss M chose to take out the policy, which indicates 
she wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like Miss M was affected 
by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for her in 
case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss M 
could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about 
the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman