DRN-3339675
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave him 2 
credit card account facilities that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 17 August 2017, Mr C applied for and was given a Mastercard Classic credit card 
account with Capital One with a credit limit of £750. 
On 2 July 2019, Mr C applied for and was given a Luma Mastercard credit card account 
with Capital One with a credit limit of £500. 
In 2021, Mr C complained to Capital One to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr C didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of the increase to the credit on 
the Mastercard Classic and the circumstances of Mr C at the time of each sale. Neither 
party has called the specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here in the 
same detail. 
Mr Cs complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr C has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times just prior to both events but he has been able to provide 
some bank statements from around those times. Capital One has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that Capital One failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr C 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Capital 
One to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were modest and the monthly payments for that 
credit would have been relatively modest and subsequently the accounts were largely well 
managed. And Mr C told Capital One that he earned a good salary at each of the times 
the credit was provided. And whilst I have noted that Mr C had other borrowings at the 
time of each event, and that Mr C has mentioned that he was consolidating another card 
when he took out the Mastercard Classic credit card in 2017, I have noted that the bank 
statements that have been submitted for me to consider, generally show that the income 
and expenditure was balanced and the accounts were showing positive balances. In other 
words, whatever Mr Cs other indebtedness at the time, he appears to have been 
managing his accounts well. And I have not seen evidence of financial difficulties at those 
times to make me think that Capital One would have been put off providing reasonably 
modest credit on these credit cards.   
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Capital One to think that the credit it 
provided Mr C was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Capital One could 
see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr C to know that I have 
noted all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman