DRN-3884808
The complaint
Mr A complains about Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltds customer service regarding a 
debt before they took him to court.
What happened
My understanding is Mr A took out a loan with a company Ill call P in 2012. Mr A wanted to 
complain the loan was unaffordable, but before he could P went into administration. Mr As 
loan was sold to Lantern  this means Lantern are now the legal owner of the debt.
Mr A says he raised concerns with Lantern about the potential mis-sale of the loan but they 
ignored him. Instead, they applied to the courts for a County Court Judgment (CCJ) for the 
outstanding amount  which was granted.
Unhappy with Lanterns actions Mr A contacted our service  and we raised the complaint on 
his behalf in August 2021.
Lantern said they hold one account for Mr A which was sold to them in December 2017. 
They said they accepted a settlement offer of £600, but this amount wasnt paid so they 
instructed their solicitors  who ultimately obtained a CCJ on their behalf. Lantern also said 
they werent told about the dispute with P until after the CCJ had been acquired.
Unhappy with this Mr A asked us to look into things, reiterating hed contacted them multiple 
times before the CCJ was entered about the dispute with P  mainly over the phone. And 
asking for the CCJ to be removed given the poor customer service he received.
One of Investigators considered things  he explained we couldnt direct Lantern to remove 
the CCJ, as a court had decided it should be applied so only a court can remove it. But, he 
felt compensation of £150 was fair for Lantern to pay because of their poor customer 
service.
Mr A accepted this, but Lantern didnt reply, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain our Investigator asked Lantern for information on many 
occasions including:
10 November 2022  asking for information
24 November 2022  asking for information again
1 December 2022  explaining will progress the case without the information if its not 
provided
9 December 2022  issued an outcome awarding the £150 compensation Ive 
referred to above with a deadline of 23 December 2022
23 December 2022  asked for a reply to the outcome with a deadline of 6 January 
2023 and confirmation the case would be passed for an Ombudsmans decision if no 
reply
6 January 2023  as no reply had been received, the case was prepared for an 
Ombudsman and Lantern, along with Mr A, were notified of this
Like our Investigator I cant consider the CCJ or whether it should or shouldnt be applied  
only a court could reconsider this. But, I can consider Lanterns actions up to this point.
Mr A has told us he was in communication with Lantern before the CCJ was issued and did 
tell them hed raised a dispute. Mr A has also said hed raised these concerns over the 
phone with Lantern. If true, Id expect Lantern to have provided Mr A with good customer 
service. 
Given that Mr A said hed primarily raised these concerns over the phone, the only way for 
me to determine if he did or didnt receive good customer service before the CCJ was issued 
is if Lantern provide their information to us  including their contact notes, and recordings of 
phone calls. All of which our Investigator asked for and, as set out above, Lantern failed to.
It wouldnt be right to simply uphold this complaint purely because Lantern havent replied. 
Despite this disappointing lack of reply, Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case  relying on the information I do have.
Here, that isnt as much as usual, but thats only because Lantern havent replied. So, given 
the amount of opportunities theyve had, I think its only fair to go ahead and consider what a 
fair outcome would be.
Having done so, I do agree £150 is fair. Mr A is distressed by the application of the CCJ. I 
cant decide if it should or shouldnt have been granted. But his distress is exacerbated by 
his firm belief he told Lantern about the dispute with P and his thought things should have 
been handled differently.
Mr A has said Lantern took him to court too soon. Im not going to decide on this, because 
its part and parcel of what happened in court. But alongside that hes also raised customer 
service issues about how theyve dealt with his contacts  and this I can look at. 
Mr A has said in his communications with Lantern hes been ignored. Given the lack of 
information from Lantern, Im persuaded by Mr As recollection of whats happened. Because 
of that, Ill be upholding the complaint. I can see our Investigator awarded £150, and in all 
the circumstances of this case I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Lantern Debt 
Recovery Services Ltd to pay Mr A £150 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman