DRN-2436205
The complaint
Miss B complains that she is unable to use her account with HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as 
First Direct, for online banking. 
What happened
Miss B has a current account with First Direct. In March 2020 she complained to the bank 
that she had been unable to make transactions online using the digital secure key and had 
to phone the bank each time. She said this had been going on for seven months. She said 
she hadnt been able to use her account as contracted and wanted First Direct to take the 
additional security it required for transactions off the account. 
Over the next two months Miss B sent several emails asking First Direct to respond to her 
complaint on email. First Direct initially responded by letter. It said her email address wasnt 
registered to her account. It eventually sent a secure email to her online banking. 
In its correspondence it explained that a new two-step process for logging on via Secure Key 
had been introduced. It said as Miss B had a Digital Secure Key she would need her phone 
with her every time. It apologised to Miss B that this had caused her frustration but said it 
wouldnt be reverting to the previous service. It provided referral rights to the ombudsman 
service. 
Miss B complained further about the customer service. In its final response First Direct said 
no bank error had occurred. It said there were no known issues with its online banking 
service that would cause a security code to be rejected. It explained the process for Miss B 
to complete secure transactions again. It acknowledged Miss B had called in each time she 
wanted to make the payment and sent her £25 in compensation for call costs. 
Miss B did not agree with this outcome and brought her complaint to this service. She said 
she had been unable to use her account as contracted. First Direct told this service that the 
problems had arisen with a payment to one particular payee, C; a payment made 
approximately every month. It said Miss B was able to start the transaction online but was 
unable to complete the security steps. The cause of this was not known but there didnt 
appear to be a problem with the account or online banking, so suggested it was user error. 
Our investigator concluded that there was no bank error and recommended to Miss B that 
she contact the Digital Support Team if she was still experiencing issues. Miss B didnt agree 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She said all payments in her online banking 
cannot be made without her calling into the bank. She said it was incorrect that she declined 
help. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss B but, having done so, I wont be asking 
First Direct to do anything further. 
Miss B has asked it to take the additional security off her account. She said she now must 
sign in with additional security via a pin number and this had disadvantaged her. I do 
understand that these additional steps the banks put in place take time and can be an 
inconvenience. In putting this extra security in place First Direct is complying with new rules 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to protect transactions from fraudsters. 
This is ultimately to protect customers accounts and money as well as to protect the bank. 
Its also not my role to interfere with a banks processes. Thats the role of the FCA. So Im 
afraid Im not able to instruct First Direct to remove this Digital Secure Key security process. 
Miss B has told this service that she isnt able to make any online payments without phoning 
the bank and that this involves long phone calls. Where evidence is missing or unclear, I 
must decide on what I believe is likely to have happened. 
First Direct has said that Miss B is having difficulties with one specific payee where she is 
starting the payment through online banking, but the payment isnt being confirmed. It 
provided details of its investigation by one of its Digital Experts. The expert noted that all the 
transactions to the payee, C, are started through online banking. All the details of sort code, 
account number and amount are inputted before getting to the page where a Transaction 
Data Signing (TDS) code is required. First Direct said it cant see exactly what goes wrong 
on this page, but Miss B never gets past it and at no point confirms the payment. It assumes 
this is a user generated error when generating the code on the Physical Secure Key. It said 
as Miss B seems to have no issues generating a log on code there is unlikely to be a 
problem with the Secure Key itself. 
First Direct also said that there were no attempts to make other bill payments online and that 
Miss B calls the bank to make other payments. Im not disputing Miss B when she says she 
isnt able to make any online payments and I understand her frustration and strength of 
feeling in this matter. But as there is no evidence that Miss B is starting other online 
payments using the Secure Key before resorting to calling the bank it does seem likely that 
the problem lies with this particular regular transaction and generating the TDS code.
First Direct has concluded Miss B is not following the instructions to generate a code. It says 
it has invited Miss B to talk to its Digital team. Miss B has said she did accept help over the 
phone from First Direct to reset the Secure Key. 
Again, Im not disputing Miss B when she says she has accepted help, but I havent seen 
any evidence that she has spoken directly with the Digital Team as she was advised to do. 
In its contact notes on 19 May First Direct said Miss B has been having trouble making 
payments for last four months, which coincide with the four telephone payments she has not 
completed in full online to C, and has had to call us to make payments. It said it 
recommended Miss B delete the beneficiary C and re add it. Its not clear to me if Miss B did 
this. Nor is there any evidence that Miss B has contacted the Digital Team when attempting 
a payment so that they can talk her through the process and see what may be going wrong. 
As our investigator noted, copies of Miss Bs bank statements confirm she is able to use the 
account, and I can see shes able to make card payments and has active direct debits and 
standing orders. So, Im persuaded the problem is limited to online payments with payee C, 
and generating the code for the transaction. I understand that the new security system is 
frustrating, but Im satisfied that First Direct has offered to help by providing instructions in its 
correspondence during this complaint on how to generate the necessary code and inviting 
Miss B to speak to their specialist Digital Support Team. It may help if she calls them when she needs to send a payment so they can go through the steps live and complete the 
transaction online during the call with the team. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman