DRN-3720388
The complaint
Mr B complains that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited (Compass) have 
been paid fees it wasnt entitled to from his personal pension plan. He would like the fees 
refunded and compensation for the lost investment growth.
What happened
Mr B was advised to transfer a pension to a firm now called Royal London by his previous 
financial adviser (Westhill). Mr B says he agreed a fee of 0.5% for arranging the transfer. 
And an ongoing adviser charge (OAC) of 0.5% per annum of the fund value. These fees 
would be deducted from the plan by Royal London. And Westhill would provide ongoing 
services and advice, including an annual valuation report. The plan started in July 2013.
Compass acquired the clients of Westhill in May 2016. After then Mr B says he didnt receive 
any valuations or contact until May 2020, when it rang him and asked whether he required 
an ongoing financial advice service. He advised he did not. In November 2021 Compass 
contacted Royal London to remove itself as servicing agent of the plan and stopped the OAC 
payments.
Mr B says having received a letter confirming this from Royal London, he wrote to Compass 
in January 2022. He said it hadnt provided him with any services since it took over from 
Westhill and he asked for the OAC paid since then to be refunded. 
Compass rejected his complaint. It said it had sent Mr B a Welcome letter in May 2016, 
enclosing a questionnaire for him to complete to confirm his ongoing advice requirements. It 
said this wasnt returned and it wrote again in March 2018, saying it had been unable to 
reach him to discuss a review. It said the letters were sent to the address on file as Mr B 
hadnt updated this with it until making his complaint. 
Compass said it didnt have any records of Mr B being provided with ongoing services by 
Westhill. It said it had received copy correspondence from Royal London and called him in 
May 2020, when he didnt want to make any changes. It said its records did include a Client 
Agreement signed by Mr B on 2 October 2012. This said any work would be subject to a fee 
to be agreed in advance but didnt detail any fees. But it said the charges for advice on the 
plan were agreed and confirmed in the policy documents as being 0.5% initially with an 
ongoing fee of 0.5% p.a. for any ongoing services that Westhill may provide.
Compass said it was sorry that Mr B was disappointed by the lack of communication, but 
that it had tried to contact him, and he couldve contacted it if he required advice. It said 
since the transfer from Westhill Mr Bs plan had been subject to its Essential proposition 
which had a fee of 0.5% p.a. And, that this basic service didnt automatically give access to 
an adviser for regular reviews, which were charged at a higher fee of 0.75%. 
Compass said that the fees paid initially to Westhill and then to it related to the initial setting 
up of the original policy and consequently it was unable to agree to your request for a full 
refund of fees paid from May 2016. But it said as a gesture of goodwill it was prepared to 
offer an ex-gratia payment of £500 to settle the complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into, and she decided to 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said the plan had been arranged after the Retail Distribution Review (RDR). 
This had abolished ongoing commissions on new plans. Meaning the OAC couldnt continue 
unless Mr B agreed to it, which he hadnt, and services were provided in return, which hadnt 
been. She said Compass wasnt entitled to keep the OAC received since May 2016 and 
should refund it to Mr B. And, that it should undertake calculations to establish what 
investment return had been lost due to the charges. Or as a simpler alternative, preferred by 
Mr B, to add interest of 8% per year simple to each of the monthly OAC payments to date. 
Compass didnt agree. It made or repeated a number of further points including. That Mr B 
had been an employee of Westhill. That hed never updated his address with it. The original 
Client Agreement was completed pre RDR and the initial charge was so low because an 
ongoing charge was to be paid. That Mr B was aware of the ongoing charge but made no 
attempt to contact either it or Royal London to cancel it. And it didnt agree that it hadnt 
provided any service as effectively its Essential service charged at 0.5% had been 
provided. And that in these circumstances it considered the £500 already offered to Mr B 
was fair.
Our investigator said Compass hadnt provided any new evidence in support of its 
arguments. She said that the adviser charging document generated by Royal London when 
the plan was taken out clearly stated that the ongoing fee of 0.5% was in respect of ongoing 
service your financial adviser will provide. She said she felt Compass was in breach of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules in respect of OAC. 
As Compass doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 21 February 2023; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning to uphold the complaint. 
Im surprised Compass has tried to argue that it was entitled to receive these ongoing fees 
from May 2016. I think it is clear that these fees didnt arise from any pre RDR business that 
had been arranged. They were adviser charges for ongoing services, as set out in the plan 
documents from Royal London. Theres no evidence that any services were provided to Mr B 
by Compass, and he never agreed to its Essential service in any case.
The rules on OAC are clear and set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in the Conduct of 
Business (COBS) rules. These are:
COBS 6.1A.22 R 06/04/2016 RP
A firm must not use an adviser charge which is structured to be payable by the retail 
client over a period of time unless (1) or (2) applies:
1. the adviser charge is in respect of an ongoing service for the provision of 
personal recommendations or related services and:(a) the firm has disclosed that service along with the adviser charge; and
(b) the retail client is provided with a right to cancel the ongoing service, which must 
be reasonable in all the circumstances, without penalty and without requiring the 
retail client to give any reason; or
2. the adviser charge relates to a retail investment product  for which an instruction 
from the retail client for regular payments is in place and the firm has disclosed that 
no ongoing personal recommendations or service will be provided.
To comply with these rules after it acquired the client bank of Westhill, I think Compass 
should have obtained Mr Bs agreement about the services it would provide and what the 
charges would be for them. It didnt do this. 
When it didnt receive a response to the Welcome Letter and questionnaire from Mr B I think 
Compass should have made further enquiries. If it couldnt obtain Mr Bs agreement to 
ongoing charges, it should have told Royal London to stop paying them. But on its own 
evidence it didnt attempt to contact Mr B again until nearly two years later in March 2018, 
again without response. It made no further contact attempt until May 2020 when it did speak 
to Mr B but failed to formalise the situation then. 
But in November 2021 Compass decided to remove itself as servicing agent with Royal 
London and the OAC was stopped. Contrary to the arguments it has made since there would 
be no reason for it to have done this at this time if there was an agreement in place with Mr 
B. So, I dont think the further arguments it has made to justify keeping the fees made are 
valid, so Ill only consider them briefly here.    
That Mr B changed address is irrelevant as I think the responsibility here was with Compass. 
His phone number was unchanged, but Compass attempted just two calls in four years. And 
Mr B had updated his address with Royal London which was on copy correspondence 
provided to it. That Mr B may or may not have been employed by Westhill is also irrelevant. 
Compass has also argued theres no evidence services were provided by Westhill, 
presumably as justification that it also received fees for providing no services. I dont think 
this is relevant as it should have obtained Mr Bs agreement in any case. But, from the 
evidence available I think it more likely than not that Westhill was providing services to Mr B. 
This is demonstrated by the portfolio valuation report produced dated 15 December 2015 
which it provided to him. That also means that the Essential service that Compass says Mr 
Bs portfolio was subject to wasnt comparable to that provided by Westhill. 
So, I dont think Compass has treated Mr B fairly or reasonably as it wasnt entitled to take 
the OAC. However, I think it is necessary to expand on the proposed method of 
compensation to ensure it is fair for both parties.
I asked Mr B for some further details. He confirmed that the plan is still in force and that he 
intends to take benefits from it once his complaint is resolved. Although he should note that 
he can take his benefits immediately if he wishes as it wont impact the compensation due to 
him. He also confirmed he will be a basic rate taxpayer after he takes the benefits.
Putting things right 
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr B back into the position he would have 
been in, had it not been for Compasss error. Our investigator suggested that this be in the 
form of a refund of the charges with the addition of interest at 8% per year simple to date. 
Normally, our service would ask Compass to determine whether Mr B has suffered a loss by calculating the notional value of the pension if the OAC charges hadnt been taken and 
subtracting the current value of the pension from this notional value. If the answer is 
negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. 
It's likely that calculating the notional value would be more complicated and time consuming 
than the alternative 8% per year simple interest method. In view of both Mr Bs age and that 
he waiting to take benefits from his plan I think its fair that this matter be resolved promptly. 
Adopting the simpler approach may assist in this and Mr B is happy with this method. The 
sums involved are relatively small and this simpler process may reduce costs for Compass 
compared to undertaking notional value calculations, which would also require a significant 
amount of information to be provided by Royal London, which may not be possible. 
When awarding compensation for losses under pension plans it is necessary to reflect the 
taxation position of the pension, otherwise its possible that too much compensation would 
be awarded, which wouldnt be fair to Compass. That wasnt mentioned in our investigators 
view, so Ive set out how this should be dealt with below.  
So, I think this is a fair way to approach the matter and if Compass agrees it should be 
possible to promptly resolve the complaint informally at this stage. But if it doesnt think this 
is a fair approach, I will direct it to undertake a notional loss calculation as outlined above. 
At this stage I think the following is fair:
Compass should calculate and pay to Mr B all the charges taken from his plan since 
May 2016, including interest at 8% per year simple from the date each charge was 
taken to the date payment is made to him.
As Mr B is above the age at which tax relievable pension contributions can be made 
and intends to take his benefits from his pension plan immediately, the compensation 
calculated above should be paid to him directly rather than into his pension plan.
As the payment is to be paid directly to Mr B it is fair that Compass make a notional 
reduction to it to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. As 
Mr B hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from the plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  which Mr B has advised will be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. This is an adjustment to ensure 
the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
If either Compass or Mr B dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr B 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint. 
Compass should provide Mr B with a clear and simple calculation showing how it 
arrived at the total figure.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decisionMr B queried the notional tax reduction of 15%. He said it wouldnt be fair if Compass didnt 
have to pay the full amount or alternatively it should pay the tax. But having discussed this 
with our investigator Mr B said he accepted my decision.
Compass said it didnt agree with my decision but would abide by it. And it queried the 
awarding of 8% per year simple to the OAC deducted. It said the OAC payments hadnt 
been deducted out of Mr Bs bank account, so he hadnt been deprived of the use of the 
funds and it asked for the reasoning for this to be clarified. It did however agree that it would 
calculate Mr Cs loss on this basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I dont think Compass was entitled to receive the OAC payments, so Mr B hasnt been 
treated fairly. I think the OAC deducted should be reimbursed and Mr B put back into the 
position he should have been in as closely as possible. 
Compass has expressed reservations about the proposed redress including interest at 8% 
per year simple rather than being calculated on a notional value basis. In the circumstances 
of this complaint, I think this is a reasonable basis to calculate fair compensation as the 
sums involved are relatively small and it expediates resolution of Mr B complaint as he is 
waiting to take benefits from his plan. 
Royal London has said it wouldnt be able to accept a further payment into Mr Bs plan in 
view of his age, so Compass paying the compensation directly to him is the next best 
alternative. Mr B has expressed reservations about the tax adjustment, but this is necessary 
to avoid him being potentially overcompensated where redress is paid to him directly, which 
wouldnt be fair to Compass.
 
Putting things right
To put Mr B back in the position he should have been in:
Compass should calculate and pay to Mr B all the charges taken from his plan since 
May 2016, including interest at 8% per year simple from the date each charge was 
taken to the date payment is made to him.
As Mr B is above the age at which tax relievable pension contributions can be made 
and intends to take his benefits from his pension plan immediately, the compensation 
calculated above should be paid to him directly rather than into his pension plan.
As the payment is to be paid directly to Mr B it is fair that Compass make a notional 
reduction to it to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. As 
Mr B hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from the plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  which Mr B has advised will be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. This is an adjustment to ensure 
the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.Compass should provide Mr B with a clear and simple calculation showing how it 
arrived at the total figure.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited.
I direct Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited to calculate and pay the redress 
as set out above to Mr B and provide him with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the 
total figure.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman