DRN-3904523
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Hearts of Oak Insurance Group (Hearts) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Utmost Life and Pension Limited (Utmost) is now responsible for the advice Hearts gave to 
Mr S. 
What happened
Mr S approached Hearts in April 1990 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand Hearts had offered Mr S the opportunity to have his pension planning reviewed. 
Hearts completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was 31 years old and married. Hed recently started new employment. 
He owned his own home which was subject to a mortgage.
Mr S had built up twelve years service in his previous employers DB scheme. He wasnt 
currently a member of his new employers scheme, and it wasnt recorded that he had any 
other pension arrangements. At the time of leaving his previous employer, it was estimated 
the DB scheme would provide pension of just over £2,000 a year. 
Utmost has confirmed that there isnt anything to show that Hearts assessed Mr S attitude to 
risk. And there isnt a suitability letter, or any other documentation from the time of sale, that 
shows why Hearts thought that the pension transfer was suitable for Mr S. 
In early 1990 Mr S transferred his DB pension benefits into a personal pension with Hearts. 
He transferred £11,587.85 and invested the proceeds in, as I understand it, one of Hearts 
managed funds. 
Mr S transferred his pension away from Hearts in 1992. 
Mr S complained in 2021 to Utmost about the suitability of the transfer advice. He says that 
Hearts didnt fully consider his circumstances. He says he lost the guaranteed benefits in the 
DB scheme and the risk of the personal pension was too high for him. He went on to say that 
he had to pay fees that he wouldnt have had to in the DB scheme and he wasnt provided 
with full information about the transfer. 
Utmost considered Mr S complaint. It thought that that Mr S had brought his complaint too 
late. This was because it had written to him as part of the industry wide personal pension 
review and he had had not responded. He should have been made aware he had reason to 
complain at this time, but he hadnt done this. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. We have considered the jurisdiction of this 
complaint and an Ombudsman has decided that it was brought in time and that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider it. Because of this, Ill just look at the merits of the 
complaint. 
An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Utmost pay compensation. She 
said that the transfer had more risk that it was likely that Mr S wanted to take, and so it 
probably wasnt financially viable. And there was no reason given why the transfer was 
suitable for Mr S in the point of sale documentation. So, she didnt think that it was likely the 
transfer was in Mr S best interests. 
Utmost hadnt commented on what the Investigator said. As no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
The advice was provided by Hearts in 1990. At this time it was a member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). 
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr S with this in mind.
Financial viability 
There isnt a lot of information from the time of the transfer. This is perhaps understandable 
given that it took place a long time ago. I do have a fact find but this is only one page of 
factual information. And I do have some of the illustrations and the transfer values. Utmost 
has been able to provide information about the pension Mr S gave up which was around 
£2,000 at the time of transfer. Mr S, the business and the DB scheme dont have any more 
than this. I dont have the expected DB scheme benefits at his retirement. So, its not clear 
what rate of return would be needed from the new personal pension to match the DB 
scheme benefits (the critical yields) that were calculated, and relied on, at the time. If they 
were. The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are relevant here. The upper limit the 
regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test is 11.9% per year for 33 years to retirement  
which assumed that Mr S took his pension benefits at age 65. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle projection rate 10.75%, 
and the lower projection rate 8%. 
As I said, its not clear what the personal pension would need to grow by to replicate the DB 
scheme benefits. But given that investment returns were generally high, I would have 
expected a correspondingly high critical yield. And given the pension Mr S gave up and what 
it may have grown to, I dont think its unlikely that the transfer may have been made on the 
basis that a reasonable growth rate would have showed that the personal pension could 
provide better benefits than the DB scheme. It may have been financially viable for Mr S to 
transfer. 
But this doesnt mean the transfer was risk free. Mr S was giving up 12 years service in a DB 
scheme. This would have provided an increasing and guaranteed income at his retirement. 
And so far, this was the majority of his retirement provision. Its likely that he would have 
made further provision in the future, but this isnt certain. And any further pension provision 
may also have been in risk bearing investments. So, the DB scheme pension could have 
been important to him and he may have relied on it to meet, at least in part, his retirement 
needs. 
Given the likely higher investment returns likely needed to match the DB scheme, and that 
this was an important part of his retirement provision, I think its reasonable to say that this 
transfer represented a significant risk to Mr S. 
Utmost has said that it isnt aware if Mr S attitude to risk was assessed. It is reasonable to 
assume that Mr S would be willing to take some risk with his pension planning over the time 
he had to retirement. But it doesnt look like Mr S had invested before and he had no means 
to replace this income if his personal pension didnt perform well. So, Im not persuaded that 
he wanted to take, or had the capacity to take, a significant risk with this pension at the time. 
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr S best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr S required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also cant see 
evidence that Mr S had a strong need for a variable income throughout his retirement. There 
is nothing to say that either of these were discussed at the time of sale. 
So, Im satisfied Mr S could have best met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at 65. This is largely because the income from the DB scheme was guaranteed and 
increasing. And was likely to form a significant part of his retirement provision, 
Furthermore, Mr S was only 31 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. He had around 33 years before he was thinking about 
accessing his pension, so I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr S to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would 
be. If Mr S later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, he could have done so closer 
to retirement. 
Suitability of investments
Hearts recommended that Mr S invest in a risk based fund. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr S should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for a higher pension and increased flexibility would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But Hearts wasnt there to just transact what Mr S 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr S 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr S could possibly have 
obtained lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think Hearts shouldve advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against Hearts' 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Hearts advice. I say this because Mr S was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr S retirement 
provision so far. So, if Hearts had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of 
the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
In light of the above, I think Utmost should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. I 
am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Hearts unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Utmost must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
Utmost may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Utmost receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Utmost to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Utmost to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Utmost 
Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman