DRN-4103338
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Euroins AD (Euroins) declined her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Miss S took out a single trip travel insurance policy starting 8 September 2022 and ending 
on 12 September 2022.
She went on her trip, but her baggage was lost by the airline. So, she submitted a claim to 
Euroins.
Euroins declined the claim as it said the responsibility to recover the loss lies with the airline. 
It said this is made clear in Miss Ss policy terms and conditions and the lost baggage would 
be recoverable from the airline.
Unhappy with Euroins response, Miss S brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought Euroins should settle the 
claim under the Personal Possessions and Baggage section of the policy and recover its 
costs directly with the airline.
As Euroins didnt respond to the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2023. My intention was to not uphold Miss Ss 
complaint and I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding the complaint and my reasons for doing so are 
as follows:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
 Ive considered the terms and conditions of Miss Ss policy as this forms the basis of 
her travel insurance contract with Euroins. Page 7 of the policy document sets out 
what is covered and what isnt. Under the What you are NOT covered for section, it 
states there is no cover for any property more specifically insured or recoverable 
under any other source. In the circumstances of this complaint, I can see Miss S has 
informed her airline that an open claim has been started under her travel insurance 
policy. The airline has said Euroins should directly contact it to recover the loss once 
the claim has been settled. I dont agree because its the airline that has lost Miss Ss 
baggage and is therefore responsible for recovering the lost baggage or reimbursing 
her for the cost of the lost items. Euroins isnt responsible for this.
Ive looked at the airlines website and the information it provides on what to do if 
baggage is lost. Its process is clear and in the first instance, Miss S should contact 
the airline to make a claim. While I appreciate that she did contact the airline, she 
also explained there was an open claim with her travel insurance provider and hasnt 
made an outright claim directly with the airline. This is what she is required to do.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Euroins is responsible for the claim in the situation 
here. Once Miss S has had a response from the airline and it has confirmed the 
settlement amount, if there is a difference, Miss S should then contact Euroins 
directly. It is not Euroins responsibility to cover the claim but the airlines, in the first 
instance. I wont be asking Euroins to do anything further.
Euroins did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Miss S responded and didnt agree. She said the following:
Shes made a claim with the airline and their response says they will not be paying 
the claim and so the baggage is not recoverable.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says she is covered for £3,500 
of lost baggage and theres no mention that such baggage would be required to be 
claimed from the airline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on changing the outcome of the complaint. I wont be 
upholding the complaint. My reasons are as follows:
Ive considered the response the airline has provided. It says only one claim can be 
permitted. It isnt standard approach for the insurer to settle liability with the airline. 
While I appreciate Miss S has contacted the airline, this was on the basis of her 
having an open claim with Euroins and the airlines response therefore has been that 
only one claim can be considered. As it stands, the terms and conditions of Miss Ss 
policy states that she is not covered if the claim can be recovered elsewhere. In the 
first instance, Miss S should open a claim with the airline as Ive already said in my 
provisional decision; its process is clear on its website.
I appreciate the IPID states what is covered and I agree there is cover for lost 
baggage. But the terms and conditions also state there is no cover for property that is 
recoverable elsewhere. The airline is ultimately responsible for the baggage that was 
lost while in its care. The duty is for the airline to assess the claim in the first instance 
and the correct process would be to approach the airline first. While Miss S has 
approached it, this is in the context of having an open claim with Euroins.
Taking everything into account, including Miss Ss additional comments, Im not 
persuaded Euroins is responsible for this claim while no claim has been made to the 
airline. Im satisfied the claim hasnt been declined unfairly or unreasonably. It follows 
that I dont require Euroins to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about Euroins AD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman