DRN-2094391
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC won't refund payments taken from her credit card
after she'd asked the bank not to allow them.
What happened
Mrs B booked a holiday for herself and three others through a travel agent, T. T offered its
customers the option of paying for holiday bookings by instalments, so that its they could 
spread the cost of their holiday. Mrs B took up this option and paid a deposit using her
Lloyds credit card; T was to take the remaining sums due from the credit card in accordance
with an agreed payment schedule.
Before they were due to take the holiday, however, two of the party decided they wanted to
cancel. And a few weeks before the scheduled departure date, the other two took the same
decision.
Mrs B contacted Lloyds and asked it not to allow T to take any further payments from her
credit card. At that point, T was - according to the payment schedule - owed around £3,000.
Although Mrs B had asked the bank not to allow any further payments, three further 
payments were made a few weeks later.
When Mrs B complained about what had happened, Lloyds tried unsuccessfully to challenge 
the payments through chargeback - a means of resolving certain types of dispute arising 
from card payments and run by the card schemes. When that was unsuccessful, it re-
debited Mrs B's credit card account.
Mrs B complained to this service that Lloyds had allowed the payments to go ahead, even
though she'd asked the bank to stop them. One of our investigators considered the
complaint and agreed with Mrs B that the bank should have stopped those payments. He
recommended that Lloyds refund them. Lloyds didn't agree, however, and said that it would
have no recourse against T if it did that. It asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, issued a provisional 
decision. In summary, I concluded that Mrs B had authorised the payments to be made and 
that she couldn't therefore withdraw that authority. This was not a case where Mrs B had 
provided a continuous payment authority for the ongoing provision of goods or services; 
rather, she was paying for a service - the holiday - but through a payment arrangement with 
T. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs B didn't. She referred to published 
information about card payments and said that T's terms and conditions allowed 
cancellation. She asked that I review the case again and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, Mrs B's complaint stems from her dispute with T. 
She says that its terms and conditions allowed her and her party to cancel the holiday within 
three months. T however says that, because Mrs B used its low deposit scheme, the full 
amount of the payment was due. But it's not for me to say how any dispute with T should be 
resolved; that may be something that Mrs B can pursue elsewhere. However, the fact that 
the chargeback claim was resolved in T's favour indicates that the chargeback process was 
satisfied the money was due.
Mrs B has as well referred to the rules about continuous payment authorities. A continuous 
payment authority is an ongoing instruction given by a cardholder to their card issuer to allow 
a merchant to take payments in the future. They're commonly set up to pay for memberships 
or subscriptions and allow a merchant to take payments of differing amounts. A cardholder 
may not be able to stop continuous payments without the co-operation of the merchant. If, 
however, they tell the card issuer that they're withdrawing their authority in respect of future 
payments, any payment taken after that notification may be regarded as unauthorised. 
In this case, however, the card payments were not to be used to pay for future or ongoing
services (such as a magazine subscription or gym membership) which could be cancelled in 
respect of goods or services to be provided in the future. T argued successfully in the 
chargeback proceedings that the full amount of the holiday was payable. This was not a 
recurring payment, but a payment arrangement in respect of money that was, according to 
T, already owed. To that extent, therefore, it differed from most continuous payment 
authorities.      
A card payment, once authorised, can't usually be cancelled. In this case, that Mrs B 
authorised a series of payments to pay a known amount arising from a contract for the 
holiday booking. This was not an open-ended contract for which she'd authorised payments 
to be taken as and when they fell due. For that reason, I believe there was little that Lloyds 
could have done to stop the payments, other than by a challenge through chargeback. It 
attempted that, without success. In the circumstances, I don't believe it was unreasonable of 
the bank to re-debit Mrs B's account.
As I have said, though, it's not for me to resolve any dispute Mrs B may have with T, and I 
make no comment on that - save to say that this service's consideration of her complaint 
about Lloyds won't affect any rights she may have against T itself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further to resolve Mrs 
B's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs 
B to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman