DRN-3492271
The complaint
Mr S and Miss S complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money)
unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr S and Miss S bought a timeshare from a business, Business S in March 2008. The cost
of the timeshare was £4,700 and that was funded by a loan taken with GE Money. The
loan was in joint names and set to run for 10 years. However, it seems the loan was
settled early, in around December 2008, but GE Money has been unable to confirm this.
Mr S and Miss S said that when they took out the time-share they were told that they
would be able to book holidays around the world and there would always be availability
for their dates. They say they were also assured the accommodation would be of a high
quality and the membership was akin to an investment.
So Mr S and Miss S said that Business S misrepresented to them at the time of sale the
availability and standard of the accommodation on offer, as they were unable to book the
dates they wanted and the accommodation on offer was of poor quality. Mr S and Miss S
said that had they known what Business S said wasnt right, they would not have taken out
the membership in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened in March 2008, Mr S and Miss S  using a representative
 wrote to GE Money in 2019 to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
GE Money responded to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr S and
Miss S loan due to the time that had passed. As the sale took place many years before the
complaint, GE Money also said that meant the complaint had been brought too late under
the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to
do anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been
brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the
claim.
Mr S and Miss Ss representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint
had been brought in time. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr S and Miss S and GE Money my provisional decision to explain why I think I 
didnt think I should uphold Mr S and Miss Ss complaint. And I said Id consider anything 
else they wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 10 May 2022. GE Money 
responded to my provisional decision. Mr S and Miss Ss representatives did not respond. 
As the 10 May 2022 has now passed I will issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision, which I have included below, explained why I thought Mr Sand Miss 
Ss case should not be upheld. GE Money responded to my provisional decision explaining 
that it had in fact considered the s.140A CCA claim was addressed in its final response 
letter, which is not acknowledged in the provisional decision. I have looked at the final 
response letter issued by GE Money and I can see it has actually addressed the s.140A 
CCA claim in its investigation. 
In the absence of any new information or points from Mr S and Mrs S, my final decision is 
that GE Money did not unfairly turn down Mr S and Miss Ss claim under s.75 and s.140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act and Mr S and Miss Ss case should not be upheld. 
Provisional decision issued on 12 April 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not currently minded to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve
the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
And I want to assure Mr S and Miss S, if I dont address every point thats been raised,
its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said
and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant
and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr S and Miss S said that Business S misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of
the timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if
GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA,
it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make
it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr S and Miss S may have to bring
these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision
Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr S and
Miss Ss claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, aclaimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of
action accrued.
Here Mr S and Miss S brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim
was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr S and
Miss S had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr S and Miss Ss case, thats when they could have
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in
March 2008. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the
misrepresentations of Business S. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made,
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss,
as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on March 2008, so Mr S and
Miss S had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money
about their claim until 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I
think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Based on the information available it seems that Mr S and Miss Ss agreement was paid off
between 2008 and 2009. This is the conclusion our adjudicator reached in their view based
on the evidence available and Ive not been sent anything further. I have seen letters that
show several loans with GE Money were paid off between December 2008 and March 2009
and GE Money no longer has any information about the loans to confirm the exact date. As
Mr S and Miss S have provided no further evidence to contradict the investigators findings, I
see no reason to depart from them.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009]
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim
was made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr S
and Miss S would have to bring an action within six years of March 2009 at the latest. As
they didnt do that, I think they brought their claim too late.
GE Money didnt assess any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have done so, so I
cant say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I
dont think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So I dont think it
needs to do anything further.
Mr S and Miss Ss arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr S and Miss S may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the
limitation period. Mr S and Miss Ss representatives made several arguments why they
dont think our adjudicator is correct about limitation. I will deal with each in term.
I have been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment ormistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud,
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mr S
and Miss Ss representatives havent explained how they think this applies to their claim
that Business S misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare. Based on what
Ive seen so far, I cant see that there was any fraud, concealment or mistake. But, even if I
were to accept that s. 32 applied, I think Mr S and Miss S probably had enough information
about the terms of the agreement relating to the availability and quality of the 
accommodation on offer, to start the clock running not long after he purchased this product
Commission
I have also considered what Mr S and Miss S says about the amount of commission that
might have been paid by GE Money to Business S for arranging the loan  they think GE
Money should have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if
anything, was paid in Mr S and Miss Ss case due to the passage of time.
From what Ive seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low
and of less than 10%. Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a
payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission
paid in these circumstances. And I dont think the levels of commission that are normally
paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have
appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr S and Miss S risked the relationship being
unfair under section 140A.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that
Mr S and Miss S may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA.
But, as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr S and Miss S
might have against the supplier or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set
out in the LA . I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And
I am not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr S and Miss Ss representative says it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this
loan and proper credit checks were not carried out. I cant see that Mr S and Miss S has
provided much by way of further evidence about this in response to the view. But, even if I
were to find GE Money didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id still need
to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr S and Miss S and they lost out as a
result in order to uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr S and Miss S had any affordability issues
during the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time.
So I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
Business Ss authorisation
Mr S and Miss Ss representatives have said that Business S wasnt authorised by the
Financial Conduct Authority to broker the loan at the time it was taken out. That is correct,
as at that time, the regulation of consumer credit was undertaken by the Office of Fair
Trading and Business S was authorised by the OFT at the relevant time. So I dont think
anything has gone wrong with the formalities of how the loan was arranged.
GE Moneys offer for delaysIn its final response letter to Mr S and Miss S I can see GE Money has offered them £100
in recognition of the delay they experienced whilst GE Money was looking into their
complaint. This seems to be a fair offer to reflect the inconvenience caused by the delay. If
Mr S and Miss S would like to accept this offer (if they have not already done so), they can
contact GE Money directly about arranging payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S and Miss Ss complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman