DRN-1498171
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line for Business (Direct 
Line), have mishandled his rent guarantee claim.
Direct Line use intermediaries to administer the legal expenses element of their policy, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be taken as including the acts or 
omissions of those intermediaries.
What happened
Mr P owns various properties and holds a landlord insurance policy with Direct Line, which 
includes cover for rent arrears. He made a claim in March 2019 after his tenant failed to pay 
the rent that was due. Mr P agreed that the tenant could terminate the tenancy early and 
vacate the property, but sought to claim around £5,000 under his rent guarantee cover on 
the basis that his property was not subsequently re-let until 27 June 2019.
Direct Line referred the claim to their panel solicitors on 20 March 2019 who advised that the 
rent guarantee should be paid. So Mr P was informed that his claim would be covered.
However, Direct Line carried out a further review into Mr Ps claim notwithstanding the 
recommendation of the solicitors, and determined that the claim was not actually covered. 
They said that the check-out report showed that the property was left in a good condition but 
had just been poorly cleaned. Direct Line noted that Mr P submitted an invoice confirming 
that the property had been professionally cleaned on 31 March 2019, which was only a few 
days after it was vacated by the tenants. As such, they considered that the property was in a 
position to be let from this date, so they declined to cover Mr Ps rent arrears to 27 June 
2019 when the new tenants moved in.
Mr P was unhappy with this, as he said he was not able to let the property after it was 
cleaned as it required further repairs and redecorating. He said that prospective tenants 
were being put off by the smell as the previous tenants had smoked in the property. 
However, he was unable to substantiate this with any evidence, so Direct Line refused to 
pay the claim. 
Mr P complained about Direct Lines handling of his claim. This includes, but is not strictly 
limited to:
Being told that his claim would be covered only for it to subsequently be declined; 
The solicitors advised him to pay £1,000 of the deposit to the tenants in order to 
expedite them vacating the property;
Direct Lines handling of his claim had been poor and had caused him distress and 
inconvenience.
Direct Line acknowledged that their service had fallen below an acceptable standard, so they 
offered a total of £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. However, they maintained that the claim had been declined correctly, and said that it was Mr P who had suggested paying the deposit to his tenants, rather than the solicitors 
advising him to do this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the policy requirements for 
cover had been met as she didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that the 
property couldnt be let due to it being damaged. And she also considered that Direct Lines 
offer of £500 compensation was fair. Mr P disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me 
to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions set out the requirements for cover under a rent guarantee 
claim:
Rent Guarantee
1.We will pay your rent arrears while your tenant or ex-tenant still occupies the 
property.
 
2.If after vacant possession the property needs damage repaired to enable you to re-let 
it we will pay 50% of your rent arrears for a maximum of three months or until the 
property is re-let, whichever happens first.
Provided that
In both 1 and 2 you have
I.Obtained a satisfactory reference for each tenant and each guarantor from a licensed 
referencing service before the tenancy started; and
 
II.A detailed inventory of the contents and condition of the property (with supporting 
photographs) which the tenant has signed; and
 
III.Kept clear and up to date rental records.
In the circumstances of Mr Ps claim, the tenants vacated the property around a week after 
the claim was registered on 18 March 2019. So the first head of cover under clause 1 is not 
engaged in these circumstances because it only applies where the tenant still occupies the 
property and the rent is at least 30 days in arrears. 
The only other head of cover available in this case then is clause 2, which states that a claim 
will only be indemnified if the property is damaged and required repairs after it had been 
vacated. So Ive considered the evidence available  as well as the submissions by both 
parties  to determine whether these requirements for cover have been met. 
Mr P claims that new tenants were not able to move into the property until three months after 
the previous tenants vacated, as he had to carry out repairs and redecorate. Ive seen a 
copy of the check-out report completed by the property management company, which does 
state that the property was poorly cleaned after the tenants vacated, meaning it required a 
full professional clean. But I cannot see that it makes any reference to physical damage that 
required repairing before the property could be re-let. Direct Line asked Mr P to provide evidence of the damage caused and the quotes for any 
repair works needed  but no such evidence was provided. He did, however, provide an 
invoice for a professional end of tenancy clean on 31 March 2019. So, given that there was 
no evidence of any damage that would prevent the property from being let, it seems that the 
property was able to be re-let as soon as it had been professionally cleaned. 
I appreciate that Mr P may have struggled to find a new tenant straight away. But the policy 
does not provide cover for such a scenario, and will only cover rent arrears where repairs 
are required to enable you to re-let the property. This implies that the damage must be such 
that the property is not considered to be habitable, and so cannot reasonably be re-let until it 
is repaired. But judging by the check-out report, there appears nothing to suggest that there 
was any damage of this kind. So I do not think the conditions for cover under clause 2 of the 
rent guarantee section have been met, as it appears that the property was able to be re-let 
after it had been professionally cleaned, which was only a few days after the previous 
tenants had vacated. So it follows that I do not think Direct Line have acted unfairly by 
declining Mr Ps claim.
However, I appreciate that Mr P was initially told that Direct Line would be covering his 
claim, which he says he relied on to his detriment. He says this confirmation led him to run 
his business more confidently, as he did not believe the claim would eventually be declined. 
But Mr P has not explained how his reliance on Direct Lines promise has caused him any 
financial loss and has not provided any evidence to substantiate the detriment it has caused 
him. So I cannot fairly hold Direct Line liable to pay damages for any financial loss in these 
circumstances, but I do agree that compensation should be paid to recognise the 
miscommunication and loss of expectation experienced by Mr P.
Along with the above failing, there were also several other instances of poor service 
experienced by Mr P. Direct Line have conceded that the level of service they provided did 
fall below an acceptable standard, so they offered a total of £500 compensation. But Mr P 
does not consider that this amount is commensurate to the distress and inconvenience 
caused and submits that further compensation should be paid.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had.
Ive considered the service Mr P received, and its clear that he has been left frustrated. I can 
see, for example, that there were avoidable delays and a breakdown in communication. But I 
have to consider whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. And in order to award further 
compensation to Mr P, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of Direct Line 
have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it 
has in these circumstances.
I appreciate that the experience would have been frustrating, but I think that Direct Lines 
offer of £500 is a proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience suffered. So I will 
not be directing them to award anything further. 
Finally, Mr P has complained that the solicitors advised him to return £1,000 of the deposit to 
the tenants in order to expedite them vacating the property. The solicitors have said that it 
was Mr P who brought up the idea of paying the tenant to leave the property, and said that it 
may be in his best interests to do this if the tenants were not paying rent. They said, 
however, that it was a decision that was ultimately up to Mr P. But even if this were not the 
case and the solicitors had provided poor advice, these concerns should be raised as a complaint against the solicitors or with the Legal Ombudsman, as Direct Line cannot be held 
liable for the quality of legal advice provided by an independent firm of solicitors.  
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line for Business, have made an offer to pay £500. I 
conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
Direct Line should pay this amount to Mr P (if they have not done so already) within 28 days 
of receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Mr P should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mr P and Direct Line as to whether the £500 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman