DRN-3887817
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited delayed providing him with a 
courtesy car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants reimbursement 
of his car hire costs and compensation for his expenses and lost earnings.
What happened
Advantage took Mr Fs car for repairs, but it was unable to provide him with a courtesy car 
for 16 days. Mr F said he was unable to go to work. He took taxis and borrowed a family car 
for a few days. And then he hired a car for four days when his job changed. Advantage then 
provided him with a courtesy car, but Mr F had to make a 400 mile round trip to swap it. Mr F 
wants reimbursement of his hire costs and compensation for his expenses and lost earnings. 
Advantage paid Mr F £100 compensation for his loss of use for nine days until he was able 
to borrow his parents car. But it said it wasnt responsible for his other losses as Mr F didnt 
have business cover on his policy. And it said Mr F hadnt complained to it about having to 
swap the car.  
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Advantage 
wasnt responsible for Mr Fs lost earnings as he could have mitigated his losses. But she 
thought it should have provided a courtesy car. She thought Mr F was commuting and so his 
policy covered his use of the car. She also thought our inquisitorial role permitted us to look 
at Mr Fs related concerns. And so she thought Advantage should reimburse Mr Fs hire 
costs of £265.73 and pay him £200 further compensation for the cost and trouble of having 
to swap the courtesy car. 
Advantage replied that Mr F was travelling to more than one fixed place of work, so he 
required business cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Advantage has told us that Mr F was entitled by his policys terms and conditions to be 
provided with a courtesy car from two days after his car was collected by its approved 
repairer. But it didnt provide this until 16 days later. Advantage paid Mr F £100 
compensation for his loss of use for nine days. But it declined to pay any further 
compensation as it said Mr F was then not covered by his policys terms of use.
I can see that Mr Fs certificate of motor insurance states:
Limitations as to use
What's covered:
 Social, domestic and pleasure use.
 Travelling to and from one permanent place of business or study.
What's not covered:
 Trade, business and professional use and any use connected with the motor trade, hire or 
reward.
Business use isnt defined within the policy booklet, but Advantage has directed us to more 
information on its website. Advantage said that Mr F does not travel to one single permanent 
place of business and therefore the class of use on his policy, which covers commuting, is 
not valid. It said Mr F required business use, as he does not have a single permanent place 
of work.
But I disagree for the following reasons. I consider that Travelling to and from one 
permanent place of business would mean Mr F could drive to and from the location of his 
job. Mr F has explained that he is a contractor and his place of work changes with a new 
contract. Each new project is a new contract for Mr F, not a continuation of a role with one
company. So Im satisfied that Mr F has one specific location for each job. 
If I were to follow Advantages reasoning, this would mean that a policyholder could only 
travel to one fixed location of business for the term of the policy. So any policyholder who 
had commuting cover and changed their job during the term of the policy would need 
business cover, as theyd now be driving to a different location of business. But I cant see 
that the policy requires this. 
I consider that Mr F is covered by his policy to commute to his place of work. I think 
Advantage was responsible for providing Mr F with a courtesy car whilst his car was being 
repaired. But it didnt do this. I think Mr F reasonably mitigated his losses at first by using 
taxis and borrowing a car. And I cant reasonably hold Advantage responsible for his loss of 
earnings at this time as he could have done this sooner. 
But these arrangements couldnt continue when Mr Fs new work place was further away, 
and he had to hire a car for four days for the commute. And I think Advantage should 
reasonably refund Mr F these hire costs he paid in order to get to work. 
Advantage then provided Mr F with a courtesy car. But this had to be returned and replaced 
after some days as it needed an MOT. I think this was reasonably avoidable. But it meant 
that Mr F had the trouble and costs of making an otherwise unnecessary 400 mile round trip. 
Advantage has said that we shouldnt consider this concern as Mr F hasnt complained to it 
first. But Im satisfied that its within our inquisitorial remit to consider concerns that are 
intrinsically linked to the initial complaint. And so Im satisfied that I can consider this here. 
Our Investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mr F £200 further compensation 
for this trouble and cost. And I agree as this is in keeping with the redress recommended by 
our published guidance for similar situations. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr Fs hire car invoice of £265.73 (invoice can be supplied if required).
2. Pay Mr F a further £200 compensation to cover the inconvenience and costs incurred by 
having to make the unplanned journey to swap the courtesy car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman