DRN-2567778
The complaint
Messrs K say the fee of £295 to obtain a consent to let (CTL) from Santander UK Plc for 
their residential mortgage is too high.
What happened
Earlier this month I issued a decision setting out what aspects of this complaint we could  
and couldnt  consider. I said we could only consider whether Santander has the right to 
charge the £295 CTL fee that is laid out in the current tariff of charges.
Our investigator had already told Messrs K that he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld and as Messrs K werent happy with the outcome I now issue this decision as the 
final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Messrs K have a residential mortgage and they let they property out; to do this they need 
CTL from Santander. The current charge for Santander to agree a CTL is set out in the 
Santander tariff of mortgage charges effective from 6 January 2020 document.
That says
If you want to let your property but dont have a Buy to Let mortgage. Youll pay this for
each consent to let agreement, where we agree to you letting out your property for a
set period of time. The fee may vary if the mortgage is on a flexible product and will be
advised by our lettings team once they receive the consent to let application.
It then says the standard fee is £295.
That charge is broadly in line with similar charges made by other lenders so I dont find that it 
is excessive. It is also the same amount that Santander would charge any customer (other 
than those with a flexible product) if they wanted to let out a property that had a residential 
mortgage on it, so Santander isnt treating Messrs K any differently from other borrowers. 
Having considered everything I can find no reasonable basis upon which I should order 
Santander to grant CTL to Messrs K without them paying the £295 fee for that service. For 
that reason I dont uphold their complaint and I make no order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Messrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman