DRN-2811204
The complaint
Ms W complains Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H&T Pawnbrokers (H&T) lent to 
her irresponsibly. She also says that the application of daily interest to her lending has made 
it impossible to repay her loan.
 
What happened
Ms W took two instalment loans between June 2016 and May 2017. Ive included some of 
the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £500 08/06/2016 25/05/2017
2 £1,894.73 25/05/2017 Outstanding
Based on the statement of account provided to us from H&T, as of November 2020 an 
outstanding balance remained on the final loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for H&T to have granted the loans. He thought the 
checks H&T completed went far enough and the loans would have seemed affordable and 
sustainable. He also recognised that there was an outstanding balance to pay for loan 2 and 
reminded H&T that it should treat Ms W fairly if she was having financial difficulties.  
Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators findings. In summary, she has said that:
H&T indicated the repayments for both loans would be over a total of 30 months, but 
she has been making repayments for the last 60 months with an outstanding balance 
still to pay; 
the second loan was only supposed to have been paid over 13 months, but she has 
been paying the loan for 48 months to date; 
the length of the lending is completely irresponsible; 
H&T charge daily interest which is making it impossible to clear the outstanding debt; 
she was offered the second loan to pay off the first loan because H&T knew she
            was struggling financially to make the repayments; 
as a single mother and only working part time, it is extremely difficult to make the 
repayments over a long period of time.
the total amount she is paying compared to the principal lent is irresponsible lending 
and unacceptable.
H&T didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings, but following our assessment and in 
connection with the repayment of loan 2, H&T has said:
Ms W contacted them in December 2018 and then agreed to set up reduced 
payments; 
Ms W was happy to make the reduced repayment and its notes dont mention any 
discussion about interest;
payments under the plan were successful until April 2020  at this point it agreed a 
Covid related temporary suspension of repayments before they started again in July 
2020;
affordability of the reduced payment agreed would have been established as per our 
usual process;
interest was suspended in August 2019.   
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
H&T had to assess the lending to check if Ms W could afford to pay back the amounts shed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. H&Ts checks could have taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ws income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest H&T should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms W. These factors include:
Ms W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms W.
H&T was required to establish whether Ms W could sustainably repay her instalment loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms W was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ws complaint.Loan 1 (£500) was due to be repaid through 17 monthly instalments of around £56. Ms W 
provided evidence of her monthly income of £962.24 and said her monthly expenditure for 
travel phone, housekeeping, utilities/council tax and other expenditure was £242. 
Loan 2 (£1,894.73) was lent the same day that loan 1 was repaid and due to be repaid over 
34 monthly instalments of around £123. I appreciate Ms W says the term ought to have been 
13 months, but I think that was a typo in the final response letter. The credit agreement Ive 
seen does show that she had to make 34 payments of £122.92. By this point, Ms Ws 
income was verified through a bank statement to be around £1,234 and there didnt appear 
to be any significant change in her declared expenses. 
H&T also carried out a credit check for each loan which didnt seem to reveal any significant 
adverse information when loan 1 was lent. But, there was an active judgement for an 
outstanding debt when loan 2 was lent which appears to have arisen after loan 1 was lent. 
Following completion of the checks, from what it could see, H&T felt it prudent to add a 
safety margin to the expenditure Ms W had declared when assessing the affordability of the 
loans. So, for example, for loan 1 it felt that Ms W had around £326 a month disposable 
income. But using this increased expenditure and considering Ms Ws verified income, the 
repayment of the loans appeared to be affordable and sustainable.      
Overall, considering the level of lending, the terms over which the loans were being lent and 
the results of the credit checks, I think H&T needed to gain a full understanding of   Ms Ws 
actual financial position to ensure the loans were affordable and able to be repaid 
sustainably. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of 
outgoings, for example through bank statements. This mightve helped verify all the 
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that H&T 
mightve needed to consider about Ms Ws general financial position. 
I appreciate H&T did ask Ms W to provide some bank statements, the ones it received 
though dont seem to cover whole months. In my view, these statements dont therefore 
necessarily show the full extent of her financial situation. 
Ms W has provided this Service with bank statements, but these have been redacted apart 
from the H&T transactions. She has also not been able to provide a copy of her credit file 
which mightve revealed information about her finances when H&T lent. 
So, whilst I dont think H&T completed enough checks, Ive not seen enough evidence to 
suggest further checks wouldve made a difference. So, I cant fairly say the loans were likely 
to have been unaffordable and unsustainable had checks been properly completed. 
As this is the case, I dont think H&T was wrong to lend either loan.  
Ms W has also said that H&T indicated the term of the two loans together would be 30 
months. But Ive not seen persuasive evidence of this - the term of each loan and the 
number of monthly instalments payable (as set out above) are set out in the credit 
agreements. 
So, I dont think I can reasonably say Ms W was most likely misled about the term of her 
loans. repayment difficulties
Lenders are required to treat their customers fairly and with forbearance and due 
consideration when they are experiencing financial difficulties. For example, a lender might 
freeze interest, defer repayments or reduce them to an affordable level to assist a customer 
to repay their loan. 
When Ms W contacted H&T in December 2018, she explained that she was on maternity 
leave and that her wages had halved. So, understandably, she mentioned being unable to 
afford the regular monthly payment for loan 2 of around £123. 
As a result, H&T agreed to accept a reduced regular payment of around £61. Repayments 
appear to have continued at this level until this Service received the complaint, although 
H&T also agreed a repayment break between April and June 2020 in line with regulatory 
guidance about Covid-19. 
I can also see that H&T stopped adding interest to loan 2 in August 2019. What this means 
is that Ms W will only repay the total amount payable for this loan in line with the credit 
agreement. So, whilst I appreciate Ms Ws concerns about the way interest is added to her 
loan, the loan is taking longer to repay than contractually scheduled because of the lower 
payments that are being made. H&T doesnt appear to have added additional interest to her 
loan unfairly or to the extent that the loan cant be repaid where payments are maintained. 
So, overall, I think, in the circumstances of this case, H&T has taken a reasonable approach 
to Ms Ws financial difficulties through several measures to assist her to repay the loan. I 
would though remind H&T it should continue to treat Ms W fairly if the loan remains 
outstanding. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman