DRN-4250034
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the settlement offered by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) after making a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Js car was stolen so he made a claim to LV, his car insurance provider.
The claim was accepted and ultimately LV offered a settlement for Mr Js car totalling 
£19,500 (£19,000 for the car and £500 for some extras) before excess deduction. Mr K was 
unhappy with the settlement amount, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said LVs 
settlement offer was reasonable, and he thought overall theyd treated Mr J fairly. So, the 
investigator didnt recommend LV do anything further.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr J, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Js insurance policy says that, in the event of a theft and total loss, LV will pay the market 
value of his car. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value
the cost of replacing your car with the same make, model and specification. Age, 
mileage and condition will be taken into account. Well ask an engineer for advice, 
use motor trade guides and other sources to determine the market value at the time 
of the accident or loss. Well consider the amount you could have reasonably got for 
your car if you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft and not the price 
you paid for it.
LV determined the value of Mr Js car using valuations obtained through industry trade 
guides, and their engineer, as outlined in the terms. These resulted in valuations of:
Glasss £18,440
CAPS £17,473
Parkers £16,680
LV initially offered £18,000, but later increased this to £19,000. In addition, they also offered 
£500 as Mr J had had some paint works carried out to his wheels and chrome trim.
Our investigator noted that on some of the valuations, the mileage differed by a minimal 
amount. So, valuations were checked taking this into account, along with listing some factory 
extras. But overall, he was satisfied the settlement offered by LV was already fair. He also 
explained that not all factory extras will increase the price, they may make a car more 
desirable to the buyer over cars without the same specific extras, but they wont always 
increase the value.
Valuations have also been checked on other valuation tools we use, Cazoo and Autotrader, 
which resulted in valuations of £18,445 and £18,900. So, also below the amount LV has 
offered already.
Having considered all the information provided, I think LVs overall settlement offer of 
£19,000 for Mr Js vehicle is reasonable and in line with all the valuations obtained. So, Im 
not going to direct LV to increase this.
I do acknowledge Mr J says he cant replace his car with this amount following research 
online of similar vehicles for sale. But as outlined to Mr J by our investigator, this services 
typical approach when considering complaints about the fair market value of a vehicle is to 
take into account what the market leading motor trade guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that this service generally finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells 
for after negotiation.
LV has used the same industry guides our service typically relies on, and the additional 
valuations obtained also show the settlement amount already offered by LV is in line with 
these. Ive considered the additional information and points Mr J has provided, but this isnt 
sufficient to persuade me the valuation reached by LV was unfair or unreasonable. 
Therefore, I wont be directing LV to increase the settlement amount.Mr J has also said the additional £500 LV offered to take into account the paint works he had 
completed should be increased to £700. This is because he paid this amount when he had 
the work completed around 18 months before, and he says it would cost more than that to 
have the same work carried out now. However, I think the amount offered by LV is already 
reasonable, as the policy provides cover for the market value of the car. The policy terms 
dont provide cover for non-standard features or reimbursing the original financial cost of 
these when they were carried out. And I dont think LV making a deduction for depreciation 
is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not going to direct LV to increase this 
to the original amount Mr J paid some time before.
I also note that LV settled Mr Js claim relatively quickly after the loss occurred, and I think 
the offer they made was reasonable. I do recognise Mr J said he had to wait on hold several 
times during the course of the calls he made to LV about his claim, and to dispute the 
valuation. But with any claim there will be inconvenience, and this didnt impact on the 
overall settlement offered by LV, which for the reasons outlined, I think was already fair. 
Mr J is also unhappy LVs engineer didnt send or discuss all the adverts he looked at online. 
Having listened to the call, the engineer explained hed had to research using a slightly 
different model and some had a lower mileage. However, as I have outlined, I think the 
settlement offered by LV based on the guides was already fair, so I dont think this had any 
impact on the settlement overall.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman