DRN-2942060
The complaint
Mr A complains about how One Insurance Limited have dealt with his claim following an
accident in March 2020.  
What happened
Mr A had comprehensive motor insurance for his car with One Insurance. He was involved in
an accident in March 2020 and made a claim on his policy for the damage to his car. When
he reported the accident, he provided details of the other driver involved and of a witness.
Mr A is unhappy about how One Insurance dealt with his claim. Hes told us the following: -
One Insurance didnt keep him updated about his claim.
One Insurance made some mistakes in dealing with his claim.
There was a delay in One Insurance authorising the repairs to his car and in
releasing his car once repairs had been completed.
One Insurance only completed a limited investigation before agreeing a 50/50 split on
liability and didnt advise him of this immediately.
He wrote to the CEO of One Insurance but didnt receive a reply.
Mr A called One Insurance on 18 May 2020 and asked them to contact his witness. One
Insurance had already done this on 3 May 2020 and received a signed statement from the
witness on 4 May 2020. The witness said that she heard the accident but didnt see the
crash. Mr A wasnt told this, so he believed the witness was still to be contacted.
After the accident Mr A took his car to a local garage and waited for One Insurance to
authorise the repairs. He called One Insurance on 26 May 2020, and again on 1 June 2020,
to chase them about this. The garage also called the insurers on 1 June 2020 seeking
authority to start the repairs. One Insurance authorised the repairs later that day but didnt
tell either Mr A or the garage.
Mr A called One Insurance again on 2 June 2020 saying the garage still hadnt been
authorised to carry out the repairs. It was only after this call that One Insurance sent
authorisation to the garage, and confirmed theyd done this to Mr A.
Mr A called One Insurance on 8 June 2020 to let them know the garage had completed the
repairs to his car. He rang again the following day as the garage were still waiting to hear
that they could release his car. It was then another three days before authority was given to
release the car on 11 June 2020.
On 4 June 2020 One Insurance reviewed the case. Having considered the damage to both
vehicles, they felt this was more consistent with the other drivers account of the accident. So
they made an offer to the other insurers to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. And on 12 June
2020 One Insurance received a similar offer from the other insurers.
Mr A called One Insurance for an update on his claim on 26 June 2020 and was told about
the 50/50 settlement offer theyd received. But he wasnt told that One Insurance had
already decided the case should be settled on a 50/50 basis, or about their offer and the
reason this had been made. Instead he was told theyd consider all the evidence before a
decision was made on the offer.
Mr A called again on 14 July 2020 for an update and was told that someone would get back
to him. His claim file was reviewed, and One Insurance noted that they couldnt see why he
hadnt been told of the decision theyd made on liability on 4 June 2020.
On 15 July 2020 One Insurance sent an email to Mr A advising him that liability had been
settled on a 50/50 basis. Mr A has told us he has no record of receiving this email. One
Insurance have provided a copy of the email, and it was sent to the correct email address.
So it seems the email was sent, but Mr A didnt receive it.
Mr A next contacted One Insurance on 21 September 2020 and told them hed written a
letter of complaint to their CEO, to which he didnt receive a reply. As he hadnt received the
email of 15 July 2020 Mr A still wasnt aware of the 50/50 settlement agreed on liability. He
was told about the agreement reached on liability and One Insurance then confirmed this in
writing.
Mr A then complained to One Insurance about how theyd handled his complaint. They
accepted they could have kept him updated better updated particularly in respect of liability
and offered him £150 compensation.
Mr A wasnt happy with the compensation offered by One Insurance and complained to our
service. Our investigator said we couldnt look at the CEOs failure to respond to Mr A, as
this related to complaint handling, which isnt a regulated activity.
But he considered the case and felt that One Insurance could have kept Mr A better updated
about the progress of his claim, particularly in relation to the agreement reached on liability.
And he also felt there were unnecessary delays with One Insurance authorising Mr As
repairs and the release of his car, once the repairs and been completed. This had meant that
Mr A had to chase them for updates when this shouldnt have been necessary.
Although One Insurance had offered Mr A compensation for the lack of updates, our
investigator didnt think £150 was enough and felt £250 was the appropriate level of
compensation.
Mr A told us hes happy with our investigators opinion. But One Insurance didnt 
respond, so the case came to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 June 2021. In it I said: -
Our service can only consider complaints about regulated activities. So I cant consider Mr
As complaint about One Insurances CEO failing to reply to him, as this relates to complaint
handling which isnt a regulated activity. What I can consider is how overall One Insurance
handled his claim.
When dealing with a motor insurance claim, the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook
(ICOBS) says insurers should:
Handle claims promptly and fairly;Provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress.
After any accident where its necessary to make a claim, theres always going to be a certain
amount of inconvenience. What I need to consider is whether Mr A has experienced more
inconvenience that Id normally expect, as a result of how One Insurance have dealt with his
claim. 
One Insurance have accepted that they could have kept Mr A better informed, especially in
relation to their decision on liability. But Mr A also complains that One Insurance only carried
out a limited investigation before agreeing a 50/50 settlement, about the delay in authorising
his repairs, and the release of his car once the repairs had been completed. So I need to
consider whether overall the £150 offered to Mr A is reasonable.
Its not my role to decide who was responsible for Mr As accident. What I need to consider
is whether One Insurance carried out a reasonable investigation of the accident
circumstances.
When he reported the accident Mr A provided details of a witness to One Insurance. There
was some delay before she was contacted, but One Insurance spoke to her in early May
2020 and she provided a statement. In this she said shed heard, rather than seen the
accident, although she did say she believed the other driver was responsible, as he overtook
Mr A as he was trying to turn right.
In the account he provided of the accident Mr A said he intended to turn right, but he wasnt
familiar with the area and he wasnt quite sure where the entrance he needed was, so he
was driving slowly. The other driver said he was overtaking Mr As car, when it started to turn
right and hit his vehicle. One Insurance considered the damage to both vehicles and felt this
was consistent with the account provided by the other driver.
Based on what Ive seen I think One Insurance considered all the available evidence before
deciding that liability was best settled on a 50/50 basis. But they didnt properly explain the
reasoning behind their decision to Mr A. They didnt tell him theyd made this decision and
proposed a settlement to the other insurers before they received a 50/50 offer from them.
And there was a delay in advising Mr A that liability had been agreed.
One Insurance sent an email to Mr A on 15 July 2020 advising him of the 50/50 agreement
reached on liability. Unfortunately, he didnt receive this, although it was sent to the correct
email address. So it wasnt until Mr A contacted them again in September that he learnt that
liability had been resolved.
One Insurance believed theyd communicated the settlement to Mr A in July, and I cant
blame them for the further delay. But their own notes say that they didnt understand why he
hadnt been told of their liability decision when he called on 4 June 2020. An agreement may
not have been finalised at that point, but if theyd told him they thought a 50/50 split was the
likely outcome, and why, he wouldnt have waited until September 2020 to hear this.
And there were delays in One Insurance approving the repairs to Mr As car and authorising
its release when the repairs had been completed. One Insurance havent provided any
explanation for the delay and it meant Mr A had to make calls to chase them, which
shouldnt have been necessary, and there was a delay in his car being repaired and returned
to him.
Taking everything into account I think Mr A has experienced more distress andinconvenience than Id expect after an accident, as a result of how One Insurance dealt with
his claim. And to put things right they should pay him compensation of £250, inclusive of the
£150 they previously offered him.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr As complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision Mr A has told us that he accepts it, but we havent 
received any comments from One Insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A has indicated that he accepts my provisional decision, and One Insurance havent 
provided a response, I see no reason to change my decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr As complaint against One Insurance Limited. 
And to put things right I require them to pay him £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of how they handled his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman