DRN-3696441
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) when he 
transferred the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr J was a deferred member of a DB scheme in which hed accrued benefits from a previous 
employer. In 2009 his previous employer made a limited time offer to some members of the 
DB scheme, where it would offer an enhanced transfer value, which had an additional 
payment on top of the transfer value of their benefits, if they were interested in transferring. 
As part of the offer, Mr Js former employer would meet the cost of independent advice to 
members about a potential transfer. This advice was provided by a business which has since 
become part of JLT and for which JLT is responsible for answering complaints about. So, to 
keep things simple, Ill just refer to JLT throughout my decision.
In April 2009, Mr J agreed to receive advice from JLT. He completed a fact-find - providing 
JLT with information about his circumstances and objectives. This noted that he was 35, in 
good health, married with two dependent children. He also recorded that he was making 
contributions to another pension, separate to the DB scheme.
Mr J said that his income in retirement from his pension arrangements was unknown  both 
in terms of what hed need and receive. He also said hed like his pension to increase in line 
with inflation and that while a high tax-free cash lump sum would be nice, this wasnt a 
priority for him.
The offer made by his former employer allowed him to add the enhancement to the transfer 
value and invest the total (£20,140) in a new pension arrangement. Or Mr J could take the 
enhancement, less tax and national insurance, (£3,109.82) as cash and invest the transfer 
value (£16,112) in a new pension. Mr J indicated in the fact find that he was interested in 
taking the enhancement in cash.
There were also questions in the fact-find about Mr Js attitude to risk. He said that hed like 
to achieve above average returns but that he had minimal experience of investments and a 
moderate tolerance for volatility in the value of his pension. Based on this JLT concluded 
that Mr J had a medium attitude to investment risk and was a balanced investor.
JLT sent Mr J a report outlining its recommendation (often referred to as a suitability report). 
The report was dated 10 June 2009. But in call recordings Ive been provided it was 
suggested that this wasnt actually sent to Mr J until early July 2009.
The report said JLT based its recommendation on Mr J intending to retire at 65  the normal 
retirement age of his DB scheme. It said, if Mr J intended to take the enhancement as cash, 
JLT recommended that he did not transfer his pension. But if he were going to reinvest the 
entire value, including the enhancement, in the new pension, JLT recommended that he did 
transfer. The report said the recommendation was based exclusively on whether your 
Critical Yield is achievable on a year-by-year basis. The critical yield being the level of 
growth required of a new pension each year to allow Mr J to be able to purchase pension 
benefits at retirement equivalent to those that he was giving up.
JLT said to match the benefits Mr J would be due at 65 under the DB scheme, assuming he 
took the maximum TFC allowed by the scheme at retirement and a reduced pension, the 
critical yield was 6.7% - if he invested the entire transfer value, including the enhancement. 
Which JLT said it felt could be achievable. But if he took the enhancement as cash and 
invested the remaining value, it said the critical yield was 7.4%, which JLT thought was 
unlikely to be achieved.
In terms of a new pension provider, JLT recommended Mr J transfer his benefits to a specific 
pension provider  noting it had negotiated special terms with that provider, in particular 
reduced management costs, for all members of Mr Js DB scheme that were interested in 
transferring. So, this was the default provider it recommended to all members of the DB 
scheme. JLT also recommended an asset mix to Mr J, that it felt was in line with his attitude 
to risk.
Forms were included for Mr J to complete in the event he wanted to proceed with a transfer. 
The transfer agreement form gave Mr J the option of taking the whole of the enhancement 
as cash, taking part as cash and adding some to the transfer value  with Mr J given the 
option to indicate how much he wanted, or investing the total of the enhancement and 
transfer value in the new pension. But the form made no further reference to JLTs advice.
Mr J signed the transfer forms on 21 July 2009, indicating he wanted to go ahead with the 
transfer and take the enhancement as cash.
JLT wrote to Mr J on 30 July 2009. It acknowledged receipt of his forms, noting hed opted to 
go against its advice. It said it would accept his instruction but took no responsibility for this. 
And I understand the transfer went ahead in line with Mr Js instruction.
Mr J complained to JLT in 2021. He said he had not initiated the advice and had been 
approached by his former employer and JLT and that a transfer had been promoted. He said 
the risks and how much he potentially stood to lose hadnt been made clear, particularly in 
comparison to the enhancement that was offered. He didnt think JLT had acted in his best 
interests when it had given advice. And he said he wouldnt have even considered 
transferring, but for the advice it gave. 
JLT didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had advised Mr J not to transfer if he were taking 
the enhancement as cash and he had proceeded against its recommendation. JLT believed 
it had been clear about the risks and felt that Mr J was keen to transfer, as hed mentioned 
being interested in transferring his benefits to his new employers pension scheme. JLT did 
though say that, while it felt the advice it had provided was suitable, the investment funds 
into which Mr J ultimately transferred were not appropriate based on his circumstances. 
Which it felt had caused him a loss. And it offered to make a payment to address that loss.
Mr J asked our service to consider his complaint as he still felt the advice was unsuitable. 
One of our Investigators looked into it and said he thought it should be upheld and that JLT 
should compensate Mr J for any loss the DB transfer had led to. While he acknowledged that 
JLT had said it didnt recommend transferring if Mr J took the enhancement as cash, the 
Investigator didnt think the reasons for this were as clear as they shouldve been or that 
Mr J was in a position to make an informed decision. He also didnt think the process 
followed by JLT  giving Mr J the option, by ticking a box on a single form, to disregard its 
advice  was balanced or fair. And he didnt think Mr J was truly an insistent client  as he 
felt without that option being given, he wouldnt have asked to transfer. So, if more appropriate advice had been given, the Investigator didnt think Mr J wouldve transferred.
JLT disagreed. It said that it felt it had given a clear recommendation and that Mr J had been 
aware of the risks of transferring and had understood he was acting against JLTs advice. 
JLT said its advice was only about whether to remain in the DB scheme or transfer and it 
wasnt carrying out a full financial review. So, it would not have explored alternative ways 
Mr J could raise a cash sum as part of its advice. And it remained of the view that the advice 
was suitable and the process followed fair.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. Including that JLT had to take reasonable steps 
to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr J. And that it had to obtain enough 
information from Mr J to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer. These 
include, but are not limited to:
COBS 19.1.2R
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme , before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined 
benefits pension scheme;(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, no later than when the key features document is 
provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison and its 
advice.
And COBS 19.1.6G
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
JLT has said it only provided focused advice  which solely looked at whether JLT would 
recommend a transfer based on the information Mr J provided in the fact find and the critical 
yields. So, it hadnt looked into Mr Js wider circumstances, such as other options for raising 
a cash sum equivalent to the enhancement.
But JLT was giving advice on whether to transfer benefits from a DB scheme to another 
arrangement. So, all of the rules Ive referenced apply. And in short, JLT needed to consider 
Mr Js specific circumstances and objectives  which I think reasonably include why he 
mightve been thinking of transferring. Which in this case appears to have been motivated by 
the option to take the enhancement as cash. It needed to assess the options available and 
look at what was in his best interests  which I think would extend to what alternative ways 
of meeting his objectives were available. It needed to provide a comparison of what the 
situation would be if he opted to transfer against what he could expect to receive if he didnt, 
in a clear and understandable manner, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed 
to make sure that Mr J understood all of this information so that he could make an informed 
decision. All while ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The advice
JLT was clear in the suitability report that its recommendation was based exclusively on the 
critical yield and whether this was achievable. Again, the critical yield is the rate of growth 
required for Mr J to have been able to obtain equivalent benefits outside the DB scheme to 
those he was guaranteed under the scheme itself. But there would be little point in Mr J 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. I also dont think this shouldve been the only 
consideration when looking at whether a transfer was in Mr Js best interests. And by only 
focussing on this, I dont think JLT gave Mr J all of the information it shouldve done, so that 
he could make an informed decision.
I dont think there were any other reasons that meant Mr J needed to transfer his benefits or 
that it was in his interests to do so. Mr J indicated he would like a pension that increased 
with inflation. And the DB scheme benefits would continue to escalate until retirement and 
when in payment, so met this objective. Mr J was 35 at the time of the advice  a long time 
from needing or being able to access his pension benefits. His needs in retirement were 
unknown  as noted in the fact find. He didnt anticipate needing to take benefits early  
although that mayve been possible under the DB scheme anyway. And he acknowledged that maximising tax-free cash was not a priority. So, he didnt need flexibility in his pension 
arrangements at the time. Mr J was also married with two children. So, the spouses and 
dependents pension provided by the scheme wouldve been a valuable benefit in the event 
he predeceased them, and I dont think transferring to achieve alternative death benefits was 
in his interests. And Mr J indicated he had little investment experience. So, I dont think he 
had the knowledge or experience to have direct control over the investment of his pension 
and I dont think this is something that he wanted. 
The only reason that seems to have been indicated for potentially wanting to transfer was so 
that Mr J could receive the enhancement as cash. But there was no investigation by JLT into 
why Mr J wanted to take this sum. The fact-find said he was interested in taking this sum for 
investment but there was no further context sought about this or whether this was truly 
needed. And there was nothing recorded about what alternative  other than making an 
irreversible change to his retirement provisions  was available to achieve this. JLT didnt 
ask for any information about Mr Js income and expenditure, or his financial position at all, 
to see if there were other means to obtain this sum. And without having done so, I dont think 
JLT could realistically assess whether accessing this sum was needed or if transferring to 
enable this was in Mr Js interest.
And without all of these things being explored in the suitability report, with JLT explaining 
how they impacted its recommendation, I think the advice given to Mr J was incomplete. JLT 
says it made Mr J aware of the risks involved with a transfer. But disclosing risks isnt a 
substitute for suitable advice or an explanation why taking the relevant risk was appropriate.
I also think the advice itself was not suitable. 
JLT says that if Mr J took the enhancement as cash, it didnt recommend a transfer because 
the critical yield would not be achievable. But if he reinvested the enhancement along with 
the transfer value, it did recommend a transfer. But I dont think transferring was suitable in 
either scenario.
The critical yield to match the benefits Mr J would have been entitled to at age 65 under the 
DB scheme was calculated to be 6.7% if he invested the enhancement and transfer value. 
Or, 7.4% if he only invested the transfer value and took the enhancement as cash.
JLT said in its final response that it calculated at the time of the advice that the maximum 
return Mr J could expect to receive based on his attitude to risk and term to retirement was 
6.7%. Which supports that the critical yield if he took the enhancement as cash wasnt 
achievable. The growth JLT deemed achievable was equal to the critical yield if investing the 
enhancement alongside the transfer value. But again, there would be little point in 
transferring and taking on significant additional risk only to achieve the same benefits - which 
is what these figures suggest was the best that Mr J could hope for. It isnt clear how the 
growth JLT thought was achievable was calculated. But given it said this was the maximum 
it anticipated Mr J might achieve  and this wasnt guaranteed, and growth could have been 
substantially lower  it appears he was unlikely in either scenario to improve his retirement 
benefits. 
I think this is further supported by the discount rates our service was publishing on our 
website at the time, for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension 
transfer was being upheld. JLT says that referring to the discount rate was not required by 
the regulator so has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into account. But I think it is 
a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was 
reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. 
Mr J was 35 at the time of the advice and intended to retire at 65. The discount rate at the time the recommendation was provided to Mr J for 29 years to retirement, as would be the 
case if he retired at 65, was 6.9%. And for further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection 
rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The discount rate was slightly 
above the return the JLT said it felt was achievable. And so, was slightly above the critical 
yield if Mr J invested the enhancement and transfer value. But the difference was not 
substantial. And although JLT said Mr J had a balanced attitude to risk, he said in the fact 
find he only had a moderate tolerance for volatility in pension value, suggesting he may in 
fact have been slightly more cautious - meaning that achieving the level of return required 
consistently was likely more difficult. Taking this into account, I think he was always unlikely 
to achieve retirement benefits of a greater value at retirement as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with his attitude to risk, whether investing the enhancement or not. 
So, I dont agree with JLT that its recommendation to transfer if the enhancement was re-
invested was in Mr Js best interests. And I think he shouldve been advised against 
transferring, regardless of what he did with the enhancement.
It follows that I agree that JLT was correct that transferring if Mr J intended to retain the 
enhancement as cash was unsuitable. But I also dont think the advice provided clear 
enough information for Mr J to make an informed decision. 
It is true that the suitability report said that JLT didnt recommend that Mr J transfer. And the 
report included the critical yields Ive talked about  in percentage terms. But beyond those 
percentages Mr J was given very little information, particularly in clear, monetary terms, 
about the consequences of transferring. A pension is primarily to provide for the pension 
holders income needs in retirement. But despite there being a section in the report 
summarising the existing scheme benefits, there was nothing in that section about the 
annual pension Mr J could expect to receive from the DB scheme.
It was noted on page 18 of the suitability report, much later than the summary of existing 
benefits section, that the DB scheme was expected to provide a tax-free sum of £26,600.90 
and an annual pension of £3,990.10 from age 65. But this wasnt given a great deal of 
prominence  coming after the executive summary of JLTs recommendation, summary of 
how JLT thought Mr J should invest and the what to do next section of the report. 
And at no stage during the suitability report was it stated, in clear monetary terms, how much 
Mr J might receive from a personal pension by transferring  particularly if the critical yields 
were not achieved  so that he could make a comparison. I think this was important 
information that JLT shouldve provided and made sure Mr J understood. It is true that JLT 
said there was a risk that the benefits available at retirement could be less than wouldve 
been available under the scheme. But without some comparison or saying how much less 
this might be, Mr J wasnt, in my view, given sufficient context to make a decision.
And I think this was even more important considering the only objective that Mr J seems to 
have thought about was releasing the enhancement as a cash sum. 
As this had been indicated by Mr J in the fact find, in my view, JLT ought to have included 
information that wouldve allowed Mr J to draw a clear comparison between what he was 
achieving  the cash he was taking through the enhancement  and the impact of this in the 
long term in respect of his pension benefits. Some indication of the potential cost in 
retirement in terms of pension income, and some discussion of the fact that retirement 
income was potentially payable for a long time, with the loss through lower annual retirement benefits compounding over that period of time, with monetary examples, should, in my view 
have been included. As without this, I think it was easy for Mr J to think that transferring 
wouldnt make a big difference to him and the cost mayve been equivalent to the benefit  
which Mr J has told us he thought was the case.
As a result, while I agree that transferring was not suitable, I dont think the advice and 
information given by JLT was clear enough for Mr J to make an informed decision about 
transferring.
Insistent client
JLT says it treated Mr J as an insistent client after he decided to act differently than advised. 
But Im not sure Mr J truly was an insistent client.
As Ive already summarised, I dont think Mr J was provided with all of the information he 
needed in order to make an informed decision about the advice. And without that information 
I also dont think he was in an informed position to decide whether he wanted to be an 
insistent client  as he didnt truly understand the consequences of this.
And I think the process JLT used made it altogether too easy for Mr J to proceed and for it to 
treat him as an insistent client.
The suitability report said if, after reading the recommendation, Mr J wanted to move his 
benefits, he needed to complete the attached forms. Given JLT recommended transferring if 
Mr J was going to invest his enhancement alongside the transfer value, albeit I dont agree 
this was suitable, I can somewhat understand the inclusion of such forms. But on the other 
hand, as hed indicated a preference to take the enhancement as cash previously, I think 
there is also an argument for not providing the forms at that stage, based on the other 
recommendation it made.
Even if the inclusion of a form to confirm agreement with the recommendation was 
appropriate though, I dont think it was appropriate or necessary to include the option to 
ignore the advice given. 
The form sent to Mr J appears to have been a standard template. But I dont think it was 
appropriate to his circumstances. I say this because it gave three options in relation to the 
enhancement  to invest it all, have it all paid in cash or specify how much of the 
enhancement hed like to receive as cash. But given JLT said its recommendation was only 
to proceed if the enhancement was invested, I dont think providing the latter two options 
was required or appropriate.
Mr J had expressed a preference to take the enhancement as cash in the fact find. But JLTs 
role was to provide advice on what was in his best interests - not to facilitate what he 
mightve thought he wanted. There was no indication in the information that Ive seen to 
suggest that Mr J had already thought about disregarding the advice before the suitability 
report was issued. He was an inexperienced investor, seeking financial advice. The option to 
disregard that advice being presented to him, out of the blue, was likely the first time hed 
even thought he could disregard the advice. And the only purpose I think including this 
served was to prompt him to consider doing so. Which I dont think was in his best interests. 
And Im not sure, without this prompting by JLT, that hed have insisted on transferring.
And Mr J simply had to tick a box on the transfer paperwork to say that he wanted to take 
the additional cash amount. Mr J didnt need to do or complete anything else. And on the 
basis of this ticked box, JLT simply sent Mr J what appears to be a templated letter telling 
him it would process the application and transfer his benefits out of the DB scheme, but that it was against its advice. While I acknowledge it wasnt a requirement at the time, given 
Mr Js relative lack of experience, I think it wouldve been important for JLT to ensure he 
understood what he was getting into. And, aside from having explained the reasons a 
transfer wasnt suitable in more detail  as wouldve been appropriate, another good way to 
have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that he understood the 
recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed. But JLT didnt do this, and it 
proceeded to facilitate the transfer. And I dont think this was acting in Mr Js best interests.
Overall, I think JLT made it altogether too easy for Mr J to agree to being an insistent client 
rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer if he 
intended to take the enhancement as cash  which appeared to be his preference.
Would Mr J have acted differently?
While I think there were failings in the advice given and the process used by JLT, I have to 
consider whether Mr J would've gone with a transfer ahead anyway  if clearer advice had 
been given and he hadnt been prompted to consider acting on an insistent client basis.
Ive thought about this carefully. Its clear that the ability to access the enhancement as a 
cash sum played a part in Mr Js decision. And Ive thought about whether hed have always 
sought to access this money. But Ive seen nothing to suggest there was an urgent need for 
this sum or that he couldnt have obtained a similar sum through other means  such as a 
loan  had it actually been needed. So, I dont think his desire to access this amount was so 
great that hed have always sought to do so  particularly if hed better understood the value 
of the benefits he was giving up.
JLT has made reference to Mr J being interested in transferring his benefits to his 
employers new pension scheme. And, in a call recording it has provided this was 
mentioned. But this seems to have been on the understanding that JLT thought a transfer 
was suitable. And I dont think this being mentioned means he would always have 
transferred his pension benefits for this reason. Rather I think this was just potentially a more 
convenient choice for him if the transfer proceeded.
Overall, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr J been provided with more appropriate and 
robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think hed have gone ahead. I 
know JLT maintains that it said the transfer was against its recommendation  which overall 
was in my view correct. But I think the process JLT used directed Mr J, unnecessarily, to the 
insistent client route without having given him sufficient information to make an informed 
decision about this. And I think that swayed him to make a decision  solely based on 
accessing the enhancement  without fully understanding what he was giving up by doing 
so. And if JLT had provided clearer information and reasoning, so that he fully understood 
the long-term implications involved in transferring away from his DB scheme I think he would 
have acted differently and retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Js complaint 
should be upheld and that JLT should compensate him, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its failings. I consider Mr J would have most likely 
remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Mr J has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman