DRN-3317084
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked access to its 
bank account without an explanation  leaving it unable to access funds borrowed under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Mr V is Ds director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
D banked with Lloyds. It applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 shortly after 
the government-backed scheme was launched in May 2020. Lloyds approved the application 
and the funds were drawn down on 21 May. 
Lloyds subsequently reviewed Ds account and Bounce Back Loan application, during which 
time it asked Mr V for information about the business and for further detail behind some of 
the declarations hed made when completing the loan application. While the review was 
ongoing, the bank restricted Ds access to the account. This means the company couldnt 
use the funds of around £40,000 held therein, which Mr V says comprised the remainder of 
the companys Bounce Back Loan.
On completion of its review, the bank decided to withdraw its services from D. It wrote to the 
company on 14 August 2020 to advise that the account would be closed in two months time. 
The account remained restricted.
Mr V complained, but Lloyds maintained its decision. It said it had closed the account in line 
with the terms and conditions. So Mr V referred the matter to us. He wanted the bank to 
reinstate the companys access to the funds held in its account.
During our investigation, Lloyds explained that  following its review  it was no longer 
satisfied that D was eligible for the Bounce Back Loan. 
One of our investigators looked into things and recommended that the complaint be upheld 
in part. He said that Lloyds was unwilling to provide D with a Bounce Back Loan as, 
ultimately, the companys application hadnt satisfied the banks checks  and he thought 
that was reasonable. But he thought the bank had made an error in approving the 
application in the first place. This had then led to the review, restriction and closure of the 
account. While these actions were allowed for under the applicable terms and conditions, 
they had caused D some inconvenience for which he recommended the bank pay £200 
compensation.
Lloyds didnt accept our investigators view. The bank said that it had been entitled to assess 
the Bounce Back Loan on the basis of the information that Mr V had provided initially, as 
applications were self-attested and loan funds had to be released quickly. It had later given 
Mr V the opportunity to provide evidence to support the declarations hed made, but this 
wasnt provided. So the bank didnt think any compensation was warranted. 
Mr V didnt accept our investigators view either, but didnt explain why. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ds complaint earlier this month, explaining why I didnt 
think it should be upheld. I said:
The Bounce Back Loan application process followed principles of self-certification. 
Applicants were required to self-declare that they met the various eligibility criteria and 
provide information about their business  which lenders were not obliged to verify. In 
keeping with this, Lloyds approved Ds application on the basis of the information it 
provided in its application. Having reviewed this application, I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong. 
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds 
having been utilised, Lloyds was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters 
under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong in conducting a review of the loan or the account. It restricted Ds 
access to the account while it did so, in line with the applicable terms and conditions.
When reviewing Ds eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan, Lloyds gave D sufficient time 
and opportunity to demonstrate the companys eligibility, asking a number of questions 
including requests for evidence of its trading activity. It ultimately wasnt satisfied that 
D was eligible and, having considered its rationale, I think this was reasonable. 
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Lloyds was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. 
This included where any of the information provided within the application is found to 
have been misleading, incomplete or incorrect. As the bank had reasonable grounds to 
consider that some of the information provided in Ds application was incorrect, I think 
it was entitled to terminate the loan. 
Lloyds was similarly entitled to close Ds account. It wrote to D with two months notice 
of the closure, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account (although in 
the event, the account remained open for much longer). 
While the account remained open, it was restricted after the bank took the decision to 
close it. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances here. I say this because 
Lloyds is entitled to use any funds held in Ds accounts to reduce or repay any 
amounts D owes to the bank. So I think Lloyds reasonably withheld Ds account 
balance (of around £40,000) with a view to utilising this to reduce the companys 
Bounce Back Loan liability (of £50,000 plus any interest that had accrued). 
In summary, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in its review, restriction and 
closure of Ds account  or in how it has dealt with the companys Bounce Back Loan. 
So Im not intending to require the bank to take any action in response to this 
complaint.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or evidence that wanted me to 
consider before reaching a final decision. 
Lloyds confirmed that it had nothing further to add. Mr V responded to say that he didnt accept my provisional decision, but didnt explain why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided any further information for me to 
take into account, Ive not reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman