DRN-3268279
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted 
irresponsibly by increasing his overdraft limit without conducting a proper affordability 
assessment. 
What happened
Mr N has complained about unaffordable lending relating to overdraft increases. He says a 
proper assessment would have shown he couldnt afford to repay his overdraft.  Halifax 
didnt uphold the complaint. It said all charges were correctly applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. And as Mr N was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our 
service.
Mr Ns complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Halifax ought 
to have realised that Mr Ns overdraft was unsustainable by 4 November 2016 and that 
Halifax shouldnt have allowed any further overdraft increases from this point onwards. 
Halifax disagrees, it says that Mr N was able to eventually clear his overdraft without its 
financial support department and that at the time of the 4 November 2016 overdraft increase 
he had a surplus income and low financial commitments. It says that gambling is a 
recreational activity and Mr N couldve paid his overdraft off easily if he hadnt chosen to 
spend his money on gambling. 
So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges and approving increases in overdraft limits. So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Ns overdraft by a further £200 to £1,600 on 4 November 2016. 
In the three days leading up to this increase Halifax had already agreed £1,200 worth of 
increases and a cursory look at Mr Ns account statements show increasing amounts of 
gambling in the months leading up to this and very little  if any  other transactions. So I 
think it could be reasonably concluded that this is what the additional funds from the 
requested limit increases were for and I think this means that Halifax ought to have realised 
Mr N was in no position to sustainably repay what he already owed within a reasonable 
period of time, let alone increased amounts. 
It makes no difference that Mr N eventually was able to eventually pay off his overdraft, as 
this couldnt have been known at the time of the 4 November 2016 increase  and Mr N 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and Halifax shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. Halifaxs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing. 
So, having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that Halifax should not have 
agreed to increase Mr Ns overdraft limit and instead treated Mr N with forbearance. As 
Halifax didnt react to Mr Ns overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. And this means that it should put things 
right.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Re-working Mr Ns current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, fees
and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increases from 4 November 
2016 onwards are removed. This means that from 4 November onwards interest can 
only be charged on the first £1,400 of any overdrawn balance. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr N to arrange a suitable repayment plan for
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr N
credit file, it should backdate this to 4 November 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and
returned to Mr N along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should remove
any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman