DRN-3993343
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly shared information about his account balance 
with his local council. He explains that as a result, the council took a large direct debit 
payment without his consent, causing him financial hardship.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are now well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr G says his local council told him TSB had shared information about his account 
balance. The council reassessed Mr Gs liability for council tax. Mr G says the money 
that was in his account was not savings and the council had made a mistake. 
On 25 October 2022, the council claimed a payment of over £1,150 from Mr Gs 
account by direct debit. Mr G explained this left him with hardly any money to live on. 
Mr G says the payment was taken without his consent because hed cancelled the 
direct debit mandate and had not authorised TSB to pay a new amount of money to 
the council. He considers TSBs actions have directly caused him a loss.
TSB said it had not made a mistake and that no-one from Mr Gs local branch had 
disclosed any information about his account. It said there was no record of Mr Gs 
request to cancel a direct debit. 
Mr G said TSB had lied. He suggested a member of staff had looked at his account 
balance, noticed his reduced council tax payments and then made a judgment that 
he was committing fraud without the full facts. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 April 2023 setting out why I didnt consider TSB had 
done anything wrong. I have reproduced my provisional findings here:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr G feels very strongly about this situation. Hes told us that he is unwell, and
I do appreciate this matter is causing him a lot of stress at an already difficult time. But this
service is unable to liaise with the council on his behalf. Its important to point out that the
only thing I can consider is TSBs actions.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr G, but having looked at everything, Im currently minded to
conclude that TSB has treated him fairly. Ill explain why.
Sharing information with the council
TSB has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to
customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only apply when an account is opened.
Mr G is concerned that TSB has been inconsistent and that it has handled the matter with a
lack of transparency. Hes suggested that a member of TSBs staff contacted the council
about his account balance and the bank is now trying to cover this up. But from what I have
seen, TSBs head office responded to a written statutory information request instigated by
the council. As TSB was complying with an official request to share information about Mr Gs
account, I am unable to say it did anything wrong.
Mr G feels TSB lied to him and that what the bank has done is not right. But the bank was
under no obligation to tell him when it received a request for information, nor did it need to
proactively confirm to him what information it had provided, as much as he might have
wanted to know.
The direct debit payment
A direct debit is effectively an agreement between Mr G and the council for collecting due
payments. The council is responsible for collecting the direct debit in accordance with the
advance notice of payment issued to Mr G. Mr Gs account statements show he had been
paying his council tax by direct debit, so Im satisfied that hed set this arrangement up to
begin with and knew that it was in place.
Mr G says the disputed payment should not have been made because hed cancelled the
direct debit instruction. Hes also explained that he did not fill in or return the direct debit
mandate form that was enclosed with the councils recent letters. TSB says it has no record
of any cancellation and that it would have sent a confirmation letter if the existing direct debit
mandate had been cancelled in branch.
As part of my investigation, I have requested extracts from the banks records. Having
looked carefully at the banks records, the direct debit mandate does not show as being
cancelled until 21 November 2022. There was no new mandate set up. The banks records
show the disputed payment was made using the original direct debit instruction that was first
registered in April 2019.
If the direct debit had been cancelled sooner, or if a new payment instruction had been set
up to make the disputed payment, it would have been recorded in these electronic records.
The evidence Ive seen shows that the disputed direct debit payment was made using the
existing, active instruction. As such, Im not persuaded that the direct debit mandate had
been cancelled before 21 November 2022.
Ive looked at Mr Gs statements and thought about what he said about no payment being
made in September 2022 as proving that the mandate had been cancelled. Mr Gs
statements do show that a regular monthly direct debit payment is made so I can see why
September 2022 stands out as being unusual.
But in the paperwork Mr G has provided to us from his local council, its clear that the council
was reassessing his council tax liability in September 2022. Based on the letters that Ive
seen, I think its more likely than not that a September 2022 payment was not made because
the council was writing to Mr G to give him advance notice that the payment amount was
going to change. Advance notice is required as part of the direct debit scheme and is
typically provided at least ten working days before changes are being made to an existing
direct debit. As the letter outlining the payments the council was going to collect was dated
17 September 2022, the September payment was effectively missed out.
Ive also thought about whether Mr G was entitled to a full and immediate refund of the
payment under the Direct Debit Guarantee. But this would only be applicable if the bank orthe council had made an error, for instance if the payment was taken on an incorrect date or
if the wrong amount was collected. I recognise that Mr G feels strongly that a wrong amount
was taken because he says he does not owe this money. But that is a matter that can only
be addressed by Mr G directly with the council. The underlying dispute does not change that
the payment was taken in line with the advance notification letter the council sent to Mr G.
As I have seen no evidence of a procedural failing by the bank or the council, I dont think a
Direct Debit Guarantee claim had any real prospect of success.
Even if TSB had instigated the claim, if it was later found that there had been no processing
error then TSB would have been able to re-debit the money, which would have left Mr G in
the same position that he is now.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr G cancelled the direct debit or made alternative
arrangements to pay the council before the payment in dispute was debited.
I understand this matter is causing Mr G great concern and that he is struggling to make
headway with his local council. But as I dont consider TSB has done anything wrong in
relation to sharing information or in relation to the direct debit payment, I am unable to fairly
conclude that TSB should have to return the money taken or do anything more in relation to
this matter.
In response, Mr G disagreed. He thought I had favoured TSBs explanation for lying to him. 
He said he would not have taken the time to contact the Financial Ombudsman Service if he 
had been told the truth by TSB and the bank should be made accountable. He said TSB had 
compounded the mistakes the council had made and that he in no way gave TSB 
instructions to re-open his direct debit after hed cancelled it, suggesting they did this at the 
councils request, giving him no say whatsoever. He said the councils chief executive had 
said no further action was going to be taken. He felt TSB were getting away without penalty 
for its behaviour. 
TSB did not respond by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr G has said he feels strongly that TSB is in the wrong. Whilst I note all 
of Mr Gs comments, I remain unable to agree that TSB has treated him unfairly or that its 
actions caused him to incur a loss, for much the same reasons as I have already outlined in 
my provisional decision above. 
Mr G wants TSB to be accountable and penalised for its behaviour. But it remains the case 
that TSB was under no obligation to tell Mr G when it received a statutory request for his 
account information, nor did it need to proactively confirm to him what information it had 
provided. As such, I am unable to agree that TSB acted incorrectly. In addition, this service 
isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr G is adamant he cancelled the direct debit so the disputed payment should never have 
been taken from his account. But this is not reflected in the banks records, and the bank 
statements he provided showing no payment was made in September 2022 are not enough 
to show that the reason no payment was made at that time was because the instruction had 
been cancelled. 
The direct debit mandate does not show as being cancelled until 21 November 2022. There was no new mandate set up at any point, nor do the records show the instruction used to 
collect the disputed payment had been reinstated. 
If Mr G had cancelled the direct debit sooner, I think it is more likely than not that there would 
have been a record of this happening, especially as he uses the branch for his day to day 
banking. From what I have seen, the disputed direct debit payment was collected in line with 
the advance notice that the council sent to Mr G. I have not seen anything to suggest that 
the payment was wrongly collected or that the Direct Debit Guarantee otherwise applies.
I was pleased to read that Mr G has now been able to engage with the council and I hope 
that dialogue will help him to resolve the underlying dispute as to whether he has paid more 
for his council tax than what should have otherwise been due. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. There is no question that this entire 
situation has been very stressful and upsetting for him, but as I have found no error in TSBs 
actions, I am unable to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman