DRN-2228012
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Santander UK Plc when he called to 
cancel his debit card. Mr M feels the advisor he spoke to was rude and insensitive when they 
discussed the transaction history on his account.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said although the process 
might have been a little uncomfortable for Mr M she didnt agree that the advisor he spoke to 
was rude and insensitive. She added that she felt the advisor asked the correct questions 
and blocked Mr Ms debit card straight away. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman review. He said that customer service is 
key and reassurance should be used instead of him feeling blamed for the issues they 
discussed on the phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Mr M was naturally worried since his card details may have been exposed. The adviser 
confirmed a block would be placed on Mr Ms card to secure his account. This was done 
immediately, and a replacement card was sent. The advisor explained that if Mr M needed 
access to his money in the meantime, he could visit a branch with his identification. I think 
this shouldve been reassuring to Mr M that his account was safe.
I understand the points Mr M has made about the importance of customer service and that 
the call wasnt to his expectations. But I dont believe the advisor behaved unreasonably or 
rudely when questioning him about his debit card and the transactions which had been 
made. 
Some of the questions Santander asked Mr M were repeated so I can understand why he 
felt they were insensitive. But these form part of the banks procedures so it could make sure 
the most recent transactions made on the account werent fraudulent. Which is what Id 
expect it to do in the circumstances. These types of questions can put customers on the spot 
about the debit card and the transaction history. But after listening to the call, Im satisfied 
the advisor spoke to Mr M politely and professionally.
I note Santander has arranged to discuss Mr Ms comments with the advisor  even though 
they didnt think the call was handled inappropriately. This shows Santander have 
recognised how Mr M felt by the call and took his concerns seriously.
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr M, but based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman