DRN-4084814
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about the way Santander UK Plc has dealt with fraud on her account.
Whats happened?
On 5 October 2022, £3,783 was fraudulently transferred out of Mrs Bs Santander account 
via faster payment. The fraudulent transaction was brought to Mrs Bs attention when she 
discovered that her account was blocked the next day and contacted the bank. Santander 
reimbursed the fraudulent transaction on 6 October 2022 and paid the interest Mrs B lost out 
on because of the fraudulent transaction (£0.12) into her account on 7 October 2022. The 
relevant account blocks were lifted on 6 October 2022 and new online banking credentials 
were sent to Mrs B via the postal service, which she had to wait to receive before she could 
use online banking again.
In summary, Mrs B now complains that:
Its possible that Santander shouldve prevented the fraud from occurring, enabling 
her to continue using her account in an unhindered way. The bank reimbursed her 
very quickly and she believes this indicates that Santander was at fault.
Santander hasnt divulged details of its fraud investigation so she can determine 
where any fault lies. The bank has said that she was the victim of a smishing attack, 
but she denies facilitating the fraud in any way.
Since the fraud, the bank has patronised her by trying to educate her on fraud and 
scams even though she has been clear that she didnt facilitate the fraud.
She only received an automated call about the fraudulent transaction on 5 October 
2022. Santander did not attempt to use any other means of communication to alert 
her, which would have been reasonable. She has provided feedback to the bank in 
this respect, but it hasnt told her how her feedback will be used to implement 
improvements.
Whilst her financial loss was short-lived, she endured untold stress and anxiety for 
over a week because she wasnt made aware that shed been reimbursed until she 
received a letter confirming the refund via the postal service.
Santander has said that: 
It handled Mrs Bs case in a timely manner, and in line with current processes.
It doesnt share details of its fraud investigations with customers.
It cant confirm whether the feedback Mrs B has provided will be used or 
implemented.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint to this Service about Santander. Overall, he 
didnt think there was anything more he could fairly ask Santander to do to put things right 
for Mrs B.
Mrs B asked for her case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. Shes 
unhappy that this Service hasnt established how the fraud occurred and she thinks the 
investigator has failed to appreciate the immense stress and anxiety she suffered over a     
6-day period, because she was unaware that shed been reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to informally resolve individual disputes 
between consumers and financial institutions. Where a banking error has occurred, and a 
consumer has lost out as a result, we can direct financial institutions to put things right by 
placing the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in but for the error. We can 
also make a money award to put right the emotional or practical impact of a banking error.
We are not the regulator, and we cant require financial institutions to change their policies 
and procedures. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. So, although I 
appreciate Mrs Bs strength of feeling about Santanders procedures/communication 
methods, I cannot direct the bank to make changes in this respect.
It's common ground that £3,783 was fraudulently transferred out of Mrs Bs account on 5 
October 2022. I havent seen any conclusive evidence as to how the fraud occurred but, in 
the circumstances, I dont think its necessary to establish what type of fraud Mrs B fell victim 
to. I dont intend any disrespect in saying this. But Santander has accepted that Mrs B was 
defrauded and reimbursed her in a timely manner, as Id expect it to do if I found that she 
was the victim of fraud that the bank shouldve prevented.
Its possible that Santander ought to have detected and prevented the fraud. But, as Ive 
indicated above, if I found that Santander shouldve prevented the fraudulent transaction 
from occurring, I would direct it to reimburse Mrs B, and its already done that. So, I dont 
think I need to establish whether Santander ought to have prevented the fraud either.
Im sorry to hear about the distress and anxiety this matter has caused Mrs B. But even if I 
were to conclude that the bank ought to have prevented the fraud, I dont think a money 
award for the emotional impact on Mrs B is appropriate in this case. This is because Im 
mindful that the impact on her was predominantly caused by the callous act of a fraudster. 
And I acknowledge that using financial services cannot reasonably always be error free. Im 
pleased to see that Santander took immediate steps to minimise the impact on Mrs B 
quickly reimbursing her in full once the fraud was identified  and that it has apologised to 
her. 
I appreciate that Mrs B did not receive confirmation that shed been reimbursed for a short 
while, and I note that shes said this exacerbated an already stressful situation. But she 
doesnt appear to have taken any steps to minimise the impact on herself. For example, she 
could have contacted the bank for an update if she was very worried or checked her account 
balance (albeit not via online banking as she was waiting for her new credentials) to see if a 
refund had been received. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander has already done enough to reasonably resolve this 
case, and I wont be directing it to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman