DRN-4200297
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M approached Quilter in 2019 to discuss his pensions. Quilter completed a fact-find to 
gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. Mr M was 62, married with 
no financially dependent children. Mr M wasnt working, having suffered from a serious 
medical condition a couple of years earlier, with Quilter noting he was medically retired. And 
he remained in poor health. Mrs M also wasnt working. He and Mrs M owned their home but 
had an outstanding mortgage with a balance of £35,000. They were paying £550 per month 
toward this mortgage, and it had a remaining term of approximately seven years. 
Mr Ms income was comprised of benefits of approximately £850 per month, roughly 60% of 
which was means tested, and a pension that was already in payment, providing around £310 
per month. I understand this pension was guaranteed. Mr M had another DB scheme 
pension that he was in the process of beginning to draw benefits from that would provide him 
a further annual income of £1,553. It was noted he had a daughter living at home, but she 
was independent and paid rent, which contributed to Mr Ms recorded income. Mr and 
Mrs Ms outgoings, including mortgage payments, were said to equal to their income, 
including the rent from their daughter, leaving no disposable income. And it was recorded 
that they were struggling financially and just getting by. 
Quilter says Mr M was interested in transferring the other DB scheme pension he held and 
accessing tax-free cash to clear, or significantly reduce, his mortgage, free up income and 
ensure that Mrs M had somewhere to live in the event of his death. It said Mr M didnt though 
want to take an income from his pensions, as this could impact his benefit entitlement. This 
pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £104,412.15. Quilter noted Mr M 
thought he could live comfortably on an income of £800 - £1,000 per month in retirement, 
after the mortgage was cleared, and noted that his state pension entitlement and other 
pensions, already in payment, would provide this when he became eligible for state pension 
in 2023. 
Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk and deemed him to be a 
risk averse investor. 
On 15 July 2019, Quilter advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension with a specific provider. It recommended he draw the maximum available tax-free 
cash, just over £26,000, and use this, along with the lump sum of approximately £4,600 he 
was expected to receive from his other scheme that he was in the process of drawing 
benefits from, to significantly reduce his mortgage. The expectation was that his mortgage 
repayments would reduce to approximately £90 per month, which were more manageable. 
Quilter then recommended that £65,000 of the remaining value be used to purchase a five-
year annuity, paying no income. This product had a guaranteed maturity value of £68,553 
and would return the full amount in the event of Mr Ms death. This would mean that the 
majority of the pension was on a no risk basis. Quilter recommended that the remaining 
£10,176 be placed in a low-risk flexible pension account, so a small portion of the pension 
was accessible in the case of emergencies.
It said the reasons for this were a transfer provided Mr M the flexibility he wanted, to access 
a greater amount of tax-free cash than the DB scheme would provide, to reduce his 
mortgage, without having to begin taking an income, which could impact his means tested 
benefits. Which would ensure that the property was secured for Mrs M in the event of his 
death. Based on what Mr M had said about his needs, he wasnt going to be reliant on this 
DB scheme for income, as his needs were met by his other means. And the recommended 
strategy safeguarded the value of his pension, which was appropriate to his risk averse 
attitude, ensuring it could be passed on in the event of his death  something which Quilter 
said Mr M was interested in.
Mr M complained in 2022 to Quilter, via his representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. He said that he had no previous investment experience, a low capacity for 
loss and a low attitude to risk when hed received advice. He said the valuable guaranteed 
benefits he was giving up werent explained to him and that he shouldve been advised not 
to transfer.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the recommendation was appropriate to his 
circumstances, needs and objectives. And it ensured that the most important of these needs 
to Mr M, reducing the mortgage to ensure Mrs M had a home in the event of his death, was 
achieved. And it said the risks and implications of transferring were fully explained to Mr M, 
and that hed acknowledged he understood the reasons for the recommendation via email at 
the time.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld.
Quilter disagreed. It said reducing his mortgage and freeing up disposable income was 
essential to Mr M, to ensure Mrs M was not at risk of being homeless in the event of his 
death. So, it still felt the transfer was suitable.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023, explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Quilter carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator). As part of 
this, it was required to produce a transfer value comparator (TVC)  an estimate of what 
sum of money Mr M would need to invest, at the time of the analysis, at a risk-free return to provide equivalent benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. In this case the comparison was 
produced on the basis of benefits being taken under the DB scheme at age 65. Quilter also 
calculated how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield) at age 65.
It was estimated, at age 65, the DB scheme could either pay a full annual pension of £3,774, 
or tax-free cash of £18,533 and a reduced pension staring at £2,779 per year. Mr M was 
being offered a CETV of £104,412.15. But the TVC was calculated to be £159,401.34. 
Essentially the difference would need to be achieved by growth. And the critical yield 
indicated this growth would have to be in excess of 20% per year regardless of whether 
trying to replicate the full pension of the tax-free cash and reduced pension.
Ive considered the regulators standard projection rates, which have remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate being 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2%. And given Mr M was recorded as being risk averse, 
achieving the growth required year on year to replicate the benefits the DB scheme 
guaranteed to provide from age 65 was highly unlikely.
The transfer analysis also looked at the benefits available immediately from the DB scheme. 
At that point, it said Mr M could take an annual pension of £3,453 or tax-free cash of £16,655 
and a pension starting at £2,630 per annum. It said the cost of purchasing an annuity 
providing equivalent benefits, including spouses pension and escalating income, was 
£193,267.18 for the full starting pension or £177,489.53 for the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension. Which was significantly more than the CETV.
So, I think the analysis shows that Mr M was always likely to receive benefits of a lower 
value than those the DB scheme would provide, and that he couldnt realistically have 
replicated these by transferring.
But Im satisfied that the advice to transfer wasnt given on the basis of replicating the 
benefits being given up or improving on them. The suitability report explained If you wanted 
to take your pension benefits in exactly the same format as that being offered by the [DB] 
scheme, then a transfer out would not be a good idea. And it went on to say The transfer 
value is not high enough to replicate this level of income. Rather the advice was on the 
basis that Mr Ms particular circumstances and objectives meant that transferring was 
suitable despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable and should only 
be considered if it can be demonstrated the transfer was in the consumers best interests. Its 
also worth noting though that the FCA has suggested, under certain circumstances, a 
transfer might be suitable if the pension holder is not going to rely on the pension for their 
retirement needs or they have limited life expectancy.
Mr Ms recorded outgoings at the time of the advice were £1,535 per month. £550 of which 
was repayments to his mortgage. Without the mortgage payments therefore, his expenditure 
wouldve been approximately £985. Mr M didnt expect his outgoings to change significantly 
aside from the mortgage and said that, in retirement he expected to need an income of 
£1,000 per month. And I think it was reasonable for Quilter, based on the available 
information, to believe that to be accurate.
I can see that Quilter gathered information about Mr Ms state pension entitlement, which he 
was due to begin receiving at age 66, and his other pension provisions. And these would 
provide an income of approximately £14,000 per year  which was guaranteed and would 
escalate. And Mr M was expected to continue to receive a portion of his benefit entitlement after he began receiving his state pension. But even without those state benefits continuing, 
his stated income needs would be met, and indeed would be exceeded by, his other 
retirement provisions. The DB scheme couldve increased the level of income that Mr M 
received. But I think it was reasonable for Quilter to conclude that Mr M was not going to be 
reliant on the DB scheme it was considering, in retirement. So, it wasnt unreasonable, in my 
view, to think about whether addressing Mr Ms other objectives was in his interests.
While Mr Ms income was said to be meeting his expenditure, Im satisfied on balance from 
the information available that he did have financial concerns and had become reliant on 
support from his daughter, through rent, that was not certain to be sustainable. As hed 
medically retired due to a serious medical condition, his income was unlikely to change. 
Mrs M wasnt working, there is nothing from the time to indicate that was likely to change 
and she was further from receiving state pension than Mr M was. 
The most significant concern for Mr M seems to have been his mortgage  which made up a 
large part of his regular expenditure. Mr M still had an outstanding balance of £35,000 and it 
still had approximately seven years left to run. 
Falling behind with mortgage payments can have serious consequences, including ultimately 
the potential loss of the property through repossession. I havent seen anything to suggest 
Mr M was behind with his repayments. But as Ive mentioned, a portion of his income was 
uncertain to be sustainable. So, there appears to have been the possibility of this becoming 
an issue. And again, Mr Ms income situation seemed unlikely to improve. And Mr M seems 
to have not only been concerned about the payments being sustainable for him but also for 
Mrs M in the event he passed away. Which, given his prior health conditions, I think was a 
reasonable thing for Mr M to be thinking, and concerned, about.
Quilter says, because of this, Mr M was keen to reduce the mortgage as much as possible, 
to make it more manageable and to free up additional income to make sure that his benefits 
and pensions in payment could meet his needs. I think this was a reasonable objective. So, 
Ive thought about whether transferring to achieve this was in his interests.
As Ive said, Mr M was medically retired. And both his and Mrs Ms income situation werent 
likely to improve. Refinancing the mortgage therefore appears to have been unrealistic and, 
in any event, wouldnt actually have improved their situation  as theyd have still had a 
significant debt that required repayment.
The fact find didnt record any significant other savings or assets that couldve been used to 
reduce the mortgage either.
Mr M couldve taken benefits under the DB scheme immediately, including taking tax-free 
cash of £16,655 and a pension starting at £2,630 per annum. This was approximately 
£9,500 less than the tax-free cash he could access by transferring though, so wouldnt have 
reduced the mortgage balance, and in turn the monthly repayments, by as much. Mr M 
would also have been required, because of the fairly inflexible nature of the DB scheme 
benefits, to begin drawing the annual pension as well. Which would likely have impacted and 
led to a reduction in the means tested benefits he was receiving. So, coupled with the 
mortgage payments not reducing as far, would not have alleviated as much pressure on his 
finances.
On the other hand the income from the pension wouldve been guaranteed for the rest of 
Mr Ms life and wouldve escalated while in payment. Mr M though, because of his health 
conditions, had reasonable concerns about what his life expectancy would be. And again, 
based on the information available, I dont think Mr M was reliant on receiving an income 
from this pension.The transfer meant a greater portion of the mortgage could be repaid, meaning the reduction 
in monthly repayments was maximised, making Mr and Mrs Ms finances more sustainable 
and alleviating Mr Ms concerns about the long-term affordability of the mortgage. And it 
gave him the flexibility to defer drawing any income from the pension, so as not to impact his 
means tested benefits. So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think that was 
in Mr Ms interests.
Quilter has said that Mr M was also interested in the alternative death benefits available 
through a personal pension, and the option this provided to potentially leave a lump sum to 
Mrs M and their children. And the death benefits available through a personal pension were 
in a different format  the entire remaining fund would be passed on as a lump sum. Which 
after taking tax free cash and accounting for charges wouldve been around £75,000. 
But while death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die, a pension is primarily designed 
to provide income in retirement and the priority here was to consider what was best for 
Mr Ms retirement.
The DB scheme did also provide death benefits. If Mr M were to pass away before drawing 
any benefits a lump sum equivalent to his contributions or five times the annual pension 
wouldve been provided (which Quilter estimated to be approximately £17,500) with an 
annual spouses pension of 66% of the amount Mr M wouldve been entitled to at that point 
payable to Mrs M. And if he passed away after drawing benefits, the first five years of his 
pension wouldve been guaranteed, followed by a 66% spouses pension. And these benefits 
were guaranteed and would continue to escalate while in payment. Whereas any lump sum 
from the personal pension would also be reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. 
So, I dont think transferring solely to achieve alternative death benefits wouldve been 
suitable. 
But that wasnt the only reason for transferring. And again, based on the information from the 
time, it appeared that Mr M was unlikely to need an income from this pension, so he couldve 
left most, if not all of the transfer value intact as a legacy. And so, the alternative death 
benefits provided couldve been useful, and when coupled with his other objective means I 
dont think the advice Mr M received to transfer was unsuitable in his specific circumstances. 
I also think the recommendation Quilter made about how the funds should be invested post 
transfer was appropriate based on Mr Ms attitude to risk. Im satisfied its assessment that 
Mr M was risk averse was accurate. So, he didnt want to expose his pension to any 
significant risk. But the investment strategy meant the significant majority of the pension was 
guaranteed to achieve a small level of growth. This did mean no income could be drawn. But 
again, the information from the time indicated he didnt have a need to take an income, 
particularly after improving his financial position by reducing the mortgage.
A smaller portion of the pension was invested and so was subject to some risk. But the 
nature of the fund was very low risk. And gave Mr M a contingency in case his 
circumstances changed, and he did require access to some funds from the pension within 
the first five years after the transfer.
I also think Quilter made it clear to Mr M in the information it provided, particularly the 
suitability report, that he was exchanging a guaranteed income  which couldve been drawn 
immediately or several years later  for benefits in an alternative format. And even though 
Mr M was an inexperienced investor, I think this was made clear enough that he understood 
this. And Mr M sent to Quilter an email after it had provided its recommendation, indicating 
he understood this.Taking all of this into account, I think the recommendation Quilter made, based on Mr Ms 
specific circumstances and objectives was suitable. So, based on what Ive seen so far, I 
dont intend to require it to take any further action.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Quilter didnt provide any further comments.
Mr Ms representative said he did not accept my provisional decision. They said Mr M was 
not in arrears with his mortgage, so they disagreed it was in his interests to reduce this by 
accessing his pension. They also said that the benefits the DB scheme provided on death 
wouldve ensured that Mrs M could meet her financial obligations, including the mortgage. 
And that referring to the potential death benefits of the new policy as being around £75,000 
was unreasonable, as this assumed they would be achieved straight away.
Mr Ms representative also said that although rent received from his daughter wasnt 
guaranteed, it was wrong to assume this might cease. They also didnt think the impact 
drawing pension benefits would have on his means tested benefits was significant. And said 
that, reducing the outstanding mortgage could also reduce Mr Ms benefits, as a portion was 
linked to his mortgage repayments.
They also thought it was wrong that Quilter had recommended that Mr M receive ongoing 
advice from it about his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I dont intend to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M was 
behind with his mortgage payments. So, I agree, he doesnt appear to have been in arrears 
at the point of the advice. But Im also satisfied he had genuine concerns, at the time, about 
this potentially becoming an issue both for him and for Mrs M in the event of his death. 
While I note Mr Ms representative doesnt agree, I think it is reasonable to take into account 
that a fairly substantial part of his monthly income  rental payments from his daughter  
was not guaranteed. And that without this, Mr and Mrs M would have an income shortfall. 
So, as there was little prospect of his financial situation changing for the better, I dont think 
Mr Ms concerns were unreasonable or unfounded. And, as the evidence indicates Mr M was 
not going to be reliant on the DB scheme benefits in retirement, I think considering a transfer 
to address his mortgage situation was reasonable in his specific circumstances.
I also dont agree that the death benefits the DB scheme offered meant that Mr M didnt have 
reason to be concerned about Mrs M being able to afford the mortgage in the event of his 
death. The spouses pension the DB scheme wouldve provided  either immediately or if 
Mr M had remained in the scheme and begun drawing benefits  fell significantly short of the 
mortgage repayments, which again were due for a further seven years. And while Mr M did 
have two other pensions  one already in payment and one he was about to begin taking 
benefits from, the spouses benefits from these pension also appear to fall short of meeting the mortgage payments, even when combined with what the DB scheme Quilter considered 
couldve provided, and certainly wouldnt account for any other outgoings Mrs M wouldve 
still had.
Mr Ms representatives have said that the reference to the death benefits the new policy 
would provide is incorrect, because the figure I mentioned assumed them being drawn 
immediately. And it is correct that this wouldve been the immediate benefit after transfer. 
But, given the majority of the pension was invested on a guaranteed basis for five years, this 
value was indicative of what could likely be expected for several years after the transfer. So, 
I dont think Quilter referencing this was unreasonable.
Mr Ms representatives have said that the potential impact on his means tested benefits of 
drawing an income from his pension was likely not particularly significant. And reducing his 
mortgage couldve impacted this anyway. 
As I understand it, any element of Mr Ms benefits that related to housing support wouldve 
been directed to the lender, separate to the income Mr M received. So, reducing the 
mortgage should not have impacted his income. And while the impact of taking a pension 
income on his means tested benefits may have been relatively small, I still think this was a 
reasonable consideration in his circumstances, particularly based on his concerns. And 
again, the tax-free cash available by transferring was around £9,500 more than the DB 
scheme couldve provided. So, the reduction to Mr Ms mortgage, and in turn monthly 
repayments, that could be achieved by transferring was a lot greater. And the sustainability 
of his finances was Mr Ms major concern. 
Quilter did recommend that Mr M utilise its ongoing review service, at an annual cost. Mr Ms 
representatives have said that this wasnt appropriate. But I dont think this was 
unreasonable. It is true that the majority of Mr Ms pension was held in a fixed term annuity 
which guaranteed to provide a set amount after five years. But there was still a portion of 
Mr Ms pension invested. And while this was initially on a low-risk basis, Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives regarding the amount invested couldve been subject to 
change. So, I dont think it was unreasonable to suggest that he may want to review this 
periodically. And I also note the suitability report made it clear Mr M could cancel this service 
at any time if wished.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think I can fairly say that the advice Mr M received was 
unsuitable. So, Im not asking Quilter to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman