DRN-2957228
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ulster Bank Ltd closed his account, and complains about poor 
customer service and racial abuse. He says these were motivated by religious 
discrimination.
What happened
Mr W is a Protestant who lives in Northern Ireland, and a former member of the RUC. He 
had an account with Ulster Bank, and he says that all of their staff are Catholics. He says he 
has been abused and discriminated against as a result, and that branch staff tried to provoke 
him by deliberately giving him poor service during branch visits. The bank closed his account 
in 2019, after giving him 60 days notice, which it says it did because its relationship with 
Mr W had irretrievably broken down. Mr W complained about these matters to our service.
Ulster Bank denied discriminating against Mr W or giving him poor service. It said Mr W had 
harassed its staff to such an extent that a branch had had to call the police about him. It said 
it had been left with no choice but to close his account.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said the account had been closed in line 
with the banks terms and conditions. He did not think that anyone at the bank had 
discriminated against Mr W or had abused him. Mr W did not accept that opinion, and so this 
case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
It has not been possible to find out what the banks staff would have said about the incidents 
of alleged poor service in the branch in March and May 2019, because two members of staff 
have since left, and another does not recall the incidents, it now being over two years later. 
So I do not think I could fairly uphold a complaint about those matters now.
Mr Ws complaint letter about these incidents is dated October of that year, so I considered 
whether the bank erred by not investigating those matters at the time. But the bank closed 
his account in July 2019, and it says this was done in part due to the content and volume of 
correspondence it had been receiving from him. For that reason, it had chosen not to 
respond to his letter. I accept that explanation, and I think it is a reasonable one, in spite of 
the banks duty (normally) to issue a written final response to a complaint. So I have not 
upheld Mr Ws complaint about poor service during his branch visits.
However, the crux of this complaint is the closure of Mr Ws account. The bank has told me 
that the reason it did this was because of his challenging behaviour towards its staff, and 
that the branch staff became so concerned that they reported him to the police. That would 
normally be sufficient reason to close an account immediately, but nevertheless the bank still 
gave Mr W 60 days notice. Its terms and conditions say that the bank may close an account 
for any reason at all if it gives 60 days notice, so it is not strictly necessary for me to decide 
whether the banks allegations are true. The bank did not need a reason, and so I need say 
no more than that, except that I have seen nothing that leads me to conclude that the bank 
made that decision in bad faith.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman