DRN-3930587
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that he has been paying for an account with Experian Limited which he 
thought had been cancelled. 
What happened
Experians records show Mr N held two accounts with Experian. Experian say both accounts
were opened by Mr N on 16 March 2021.
Experian offers different types of accounts and services to customers. Of the two accounts in
question, one account was a CreditExpert account, which incurred a monthly fee of £14.99.
And the other account was an Experian Account, which was free.
Mr N has said that in the process of looking for a further advance on his mortgage he wanted
to check his credit file, and this is why he accessed Experians services. However, his
intention after doing so was to cancel the paid for account.
On 16 March 2021 Mr N approached Experian online to explain he was struggling to access
his account, and that he seemed only able to gain access using an old login with a different
address.
Later the same day Mr N was sent two emails, at different times, confirming that his account
with Experian had been closed.
Experian emailed Mr N on 17 March 2021. They let Mr N know that it appeared hed been
unable to access his subscription due to having a duplicate profile. Experian confirmed they
had removed any duplicate profiles, and gave Mr N his login details.
Experian have said that later on the same day - 17 March 2021 - Mr N accessed his
CreditExpert account.
After this, Mr N didnt access his CreditExpert account again until 15 May 2021. Mr N is
unable to recall why he accessed the account in May 2021, but suggests he may simply
have been doing some housekeeping as the e-mail address on the account was updated.
There is nothing to suggest Mr N accessed the account any further after this date.
It wasnt until 10 November 2021 that Mr N contacted Experian to say he was unhappy that
he was being charged for the CreditExpert account.
Experian didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint as they didnt think they had done anything wrong.
However, as a gesture of goodwill, Experian returned half the payments Mr N had made
since he last accessed the account in May 2021. Experian therefore paid £44.97 into Mr Ns
bank account. Mr Ns CreditExpert account was also cancelled on 10 November 2021, and
closed on 16 November 2021.
Mr N was unhappy with this, as to resolve things he is seeking a refund of all the payments
he made for the account as well as a sum of £25 for the distress and inconvenience the
matter has caused him.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint, and as Mr N strongly disagreed with the
investigator, the matter has come to me to decide. Additional submissions to help better
understand what had happened were also obtained from both Mr N and Experian, which I
reviewed as part of my considerations. I issued my provisional findings to both parties and 
upheld Mr Ns complaint in part. Below is a copy of my provisional findings: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional
conclusions are different to those reached by the investigator and Ill explain why.
From the available submissions, and despite attempts for further clarity, it remains difficult to
know exactly what happened when Mr N opened the accounts in question. And so there
appear to be a number of uncertainties around Mr Ns dealings with Experian.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive reached my conclusions
on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is
most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstance of the
complaint.
It appears accepted by both parties that Mr N opened two accounts with Experian on 16
March 2021, with one being a fee-paying account and the other a free account. Mr N doesnt
recall how this may have happened, and Experian have speculated that opening a second
account may have been accidental on Mr Ns part.
Mr N has queried whether the error of opening two accounts was due to a confusion over
different e-mail addresses he has. However, from the available submissions, its unclear if
this was the cause of Mr N having two accounts, particularly as the submissions show that
Mr Ns accounts had different property addresses registered against them. Due to the limited
evidence available, it is difficult to know what exactly happened, but based on the available
information, it appears most likely Mr N opened the two accounts and used different
information when doing so.
Its not clear to me whether Mr N was initially aware he had opened two accounts or that he
had intended to do so, but he does in his submissions refer to believing that the two e-mails
sent to him on 16 March 2021 were cancelling two different accounts. So I think its
reasonable to say Mr N most likely was aware he had two accounts with Experian.
So it could reasonably follow that when Mr N contacted Experian on 16 March 2021 asking
for help to access his account, he was most likely aware of which account he was trying to
access. Experian have said they understood Mr N was trying to access his CreditExpert
account because the address in the query matched the address held for the CreditExpert
account.
Although Mr Ns query made no mention of a request to cancel either account, he received
two cancellation e-mails on 16 March 2021. The limited contents available to me in these e-
mails makes no mention which of Mr Ns accounts was being cancelled, so I can see why
Mr N may have concluded that both accounts had been closed.
However, when Experians e-mail to Mr N dated 17 March 2021 explained they believed a
duplicate profile for Mr N had prevented him from accessing his account and so they had
cancelled the duplicate profile, Experian also provided login details for the account Mr N wastrying to access.
The login details didnt describe the name of the account they related to, but I think its fair to
say the provision of the login details would have been enough to let Mr N know that he still
had an open account with Experian. Mr N accessed the account on 17 March 2021 and
again on 15 May 2021. Its therefore difficult to accept what Mr N has said about believing
his accounts with Experian were closed.
Furthermore, as part of the CreditExpert account features, Experian would send alerts to
their customers about their accounts and credit file. Experian has said during the time Mr N
held the account he was sent around 20 such alerts via e-mail. In his submissions Mr N has
said he ignored e-mails from Experian thinking they were similar to other organisations
general e-mails he receives for things he has signed up to. So he did not think he needed to
check if he was paying for anything. Mr N does say however, that he received no e-mails
between March and May 2021 (before he updated his e-mail address on 15 May 2021).
Ive considered what Mr N has said about these e-mails, but I think on balance its fair to say
that receiving these e-mails could have reasonably suggested to Mr N that despite thinking
he had closed down his relationship with Experian, this may not have been the case as
Experian was still contacting him and providing him with information. And I dont think it
would be reasonable to hold Experian responsible if Mr N chose not to open these e-mails.
As noted earlier, the CreditExpert account is a paid for account. These payments left Mr Ns
bank account between March 2021 and November 2021  a total of eight payments. Given
these payments were being made for several months, it is difficult to say Mr N would not
have seen these on his statements, or known what they related to given the entries on the
statements were referenced as EXPERIAN UK WWW.EXPERIAN.
Taking this all into account, on balance, I think Mr N more likely than not was aware that he
still had an account with Experian after 16 March 2021 when the cancellation e-mails were
sent to him. Theres nothing to suggest Mr N requested that both accounts be cancelled 
particularly as the query on 16 March 2021 was to gain access to the account. So, on
balance, I dont think Mr N was looking to stop using Experians services at that time. And I
think its more likely than not that he would have been able to see that he was making a
monthly payment to Experian for one of their services.
Mr N questioned the reactivation of the Experian Account on 16 March 2021 and queried
whether a third account was opened. Experian have been unable to explain what happened
here, and I think the reactivation of the Experian Account has added to the confusion around
this time. However, from the submissions Ive seen it doesnt appear that a third account was
opened, only that the Experian Account was reactivated and closed again soon after, which
most likely led to the two cancellation e-mails on 16 March 2021.
In his submissions Mr N has also questioned how clear it was to customers on Experians
website and application process that a payment of £14.99 per month would be payable after
the free trial period for the CreditExpert account. Ive looked at Experians website, and the
website shows that new customers can have a free 30-day trial of this account before
incurring the monthly fee. Clicking through to the next step of the application it confirms
again that a monthly fee of £14.99 applies after the free trial, and that cancellation  without
charge  can be done within the first 30 days.
On balance, I therefore think its apparent on the website that this account carries with it a
monthly charge of £14.99. And so I find it difficult to agree with Mr N that this isnt something
he would have been aware of, particularly as it appears from Experians submissions that Mr
Ns bank account details must have been supplied in order to open the account.That said, I am mindful there was a free trial period available to new customers when
opening a CreditExpert account. And Ive considered whether this is relevant to Mr Ns case.
When contacting Experian for help to access his account on 16 March 2021, Mr N said, I
can only access an old login with a different address. Its not clear whether Mr N was
referring to an old e-mail address or an old residential address. But reference to an old login
suggests Mr N may have held a previous account with Experian. However, Mr N is unable to
recall an earlier account, although he submits he cannot be 100% sure. When asked,
Experian only located the two accounts mentioned in this case and suggested there was no
previous account held by Mr N.
Given the uncertainty as to whether Mr N could be considered a new customer, and the
payments Mr N made for the CreditExpert account include a payment for March 2021 when
the account was first opened, I think it only fair in the circumstances that Experian return the
initial payment made in March 2021 to Mr N with interest.
I understand Mr N believes its unfair to have paid for a service he only used once when he
logged in on 15 May 2021. However, as Ive explained, I think Mr N was more likely than not
aware of the account and that he was paying for it. And while he did only access the account
on one occasion, the account did send him alerts as part of the service. So it does appear
the account was doing what it was set up to do.
Mr N made a total of eight payments while he held the CreditExpert account. Im aware Mr N
approached his bank to suggest he didnt agree for the payments to be made for the
CreditExpert account. And I understand Mr Ns bank used the chargeback process to secure
the return of one of Mr Ns most recent payments. As that relates to a matter with Mr Ns
bank I have not considered this. With Experians goodwill gesture, in total, Mr N has
therefore already received four of the eight payments back.
Overall, I think its fair to say Experian could have been clearer with Mr N about what
account was being cancelled on 16 May 2021, but on balance I think its reasonable to say
Mr N most likely was aware he still had an open account with Experian after 16 March 2021,
and that he knew what this was. So I dont think it is reasonable to ask Experian to return all
the payments to Mr N.
However, the account in question came with a free 30-day trial period for new customers,
and Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr N was ineligible for this. Experian chose to return
half of the payments Mr N made after May 2021, so Im mindful this goodwill gesture does
not represent the March 2021 payment. I therefore think its reasonable to say that as Mr N
paid for the first 30 days, the March 2021 fee of £14.99 should be refunded to him with
interest. Interest should be paid at *8% simple interest, per annum, and should be calculated
from the date Mr N made this payment until the date of calculation.
Lastly, Mr N raised a question about whether his information had been sent to a different e-
mail address when the account was first opened and before he updated his e-mail address
in May 2021. Given this is not something Experian have considered, Mr N would need to
query this with them as a separate matter.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Experian replied to say they disagreed with the outcome reached. Experian said they had 
checked their records and were able to now confirm that Mr N was not a new customer and 
therefore he was not eligible for the new customer free trial period. Experians most recent 
submissions are that Mr N had a 30-day free trial of the CreditExpert service in 2016. Mr N also responded to my provisional decision and offered clarification over certain points. 
In summary Mr N explained how he used the account from which the Experian payments 
came from, and that the statements had been going to his mothers address. He said that 
due to covid he had not been going to that address (in order to shield his mother) so he 
hadnt picked up the statements. Mr N also said this account did not have an online facility. 
Mr N said he did not think his entire relationship with Experian had ended, and was only 
surprised that the account he was logging into was the paid for account, not that he still had 
an account. Mr N said his wish to access the account had been so that he could cancel it  
not to continue using it. Mr N also felt, if e-mails from March to May 2021 were being relied 
upon to show he had awareness of holding a fee-paying account with Experian, it was unfair 
that Experians failure to investigate where earlier emails may have been sent prior to May 
2021, was being used as a reason for this service not to look into this. 
Before reviewing the case again, this service made Mr N aware that Experian had been able 
to find that hed held a previous account with them and because of this I was minded to say 
that Mr N would therefore no longer be eligible for the March 2021 payment to be refunded. 
Mr N replied to say he could not be certain if he was or was not a new customer, so he had 
nothing further to add to confirm or deny what Experian had said. Mr N did however query 
whether in relation to a previous account he made a payment beyond the trial date, and 
whether that would impact this matter given he said he had a history of cancelling trials 
before he would start to be charged.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again, in light of the additional submissions and evidence from 
both parties I have altered the conclusions reached in my provisional decision, and I have 
decided Mr Ns complaint should not be upheld. 
The matters not in dispute are that Mr N opened two accounts; Mr N contacted Experian to 
get access to an account; two e-mails were sent to Mr N on 16 March 2021 to confirm an 
account was closed; and an e-mail on 17 March 2021 was sent to Mr N confirming duplicate 
profiles had been cancelled, and login details were given to Mr N to access an account with 
Experian. 
Its also not in dispute that Mr N accessed the CreditExpert account on 17 March 2021 and 
again on 15 May 2021. But at no other time. And its clear that payments corresponding to 
the monthly payment cost of a CreditExpert account were being paid for from an account 
held by Mr N with the statement reference relating to Experian. 
What is less clear is how and why two accounts were opened; what accounts the e-mails on 
16 March 2021 and 17 March 2021 relate to; and why there are two cancellation e-mails on 
16 March 2021. 
Since my provisional decision, Experians latest submissions now include a screenshot they 
say relates to Mr N holding a previous CreditExpert account with them. Mr Ns name is not 
on the screenshot itself, but I have no reason to question what Experian have submitted  
Mr N himself is unable to be certain of whether he held an earlier account or not, and 
Experian have explained they had been unable to find this previously due to the records 
being on an old system. So I think in the circumstances, its fair to say Mr N was not a new customer. And it follows that I now dont think Experian need to refund the March 2021 
payment to Mr N. 
However, I would note that it is disappointing the communications from Experian to Mr N  
the e-mails on 16 and 17 March 2021 - did not clearly identify what accounts they were 
referring to, as I think its fair to say this has contributed to some of the confusion in this 
matter. 
In my provisional decision I noted that Experian, when reconciling Mr Ns profile, closed the 
Experian Account (the free account) rather than the fee paying CreditExpert account, 
because they had seen Mr Ns query related to the address linked to the CreditExpert 
account rather than an old address. I dont think this was unreasonable, however, as noted 
above, I think it would have been helpful to have clarified with Mr N which account he would 
continue to have access to and that this was a fee-paying account. 
That said, Mr N had previously held a fee-paying CreditExpert account and while Ive 
carefully considered what Mr N has said about the account used to make the Experian 
payments, I think its fair to say this was an account Mr N was responsible for keeping up to 
date with his details, so it would be unfair to hold Experian responsible for this  and I note 
Mr N reasonably accepts his bank account was his responsibility to manage. 
Mr N submitted further commentary about the cancellation of the accounts and what he was 
aware of at the time, and what his intentions had been. Ive considered these points as well 
as what Mr N has most recently queried about his tendency to cancel accounts within a trial 
period, but from the submissions made available to me, in the circumstances, Ive not seen 
enough to persuade me to alter my findings in this case. 
Mr N said he was not surprised he could still log into an Experian account, only that he was 
surprised to be paying for it and that he had needed to access the account in order to close 
it. However, I find it difficult to accept this given Mr N then went on to access the account in 
May 2021 and update his email address to the account, with there being no record of him 
asking for the account to be closed at that time. And because Mr Ns earlier submissions to 
this service had referenced an understanding that both accounts had been closed on 16 
March 2021. 
Ive considered Mr Ns comments about the earlier e-mails from Experian. I would like to 
reassure Mr N that the earlier e-mails were not something Ive solely relied on as part of my 
findings. I say this because I think its more likely than not Mr N was aware of the account 
given that he accessed it in May 2021. In consideration of whether or not Mr N had 
awareness that the account was a fee-paying account, as Ive already noted above, I think 
this was more likely than not something he would have been aware of given he most likely 
requested Experian give him access to this particular account, Experians website sets out 
that the CreditExpert account is a fee-paying account, and payments to Experian were 
leaving a bank account that was his. 
As noted in my provisional findings, if Mr N is concerned that his information has been 
issued to an e-mail account that was not his, this is something he would need to discuss 
separately with Experian as I cannot see that any concerns about sharing his data formed 
part of this complaint. 
I understand Mr N will be disappointed with my findings, but based on the available 
submissions, for the reasons above, I dont think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. So in 
the circumstances of this case, I make no award against Experian Limited. My final decision
For the reasons above my final decision is that Mr Ns complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman