DRN-3489803
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP to switch 
her Personal Pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mrs L held two Personal Pensions with a provider. Both pensions were invested in With-
Profits funds, each with a guaranteed investment return of 3.5%. 
Mrs L had concerns about the stability and future viability of her provider and so considered 
moving her pensions somewhere safer. Portal Financial got in touch with Mrs L and 
arranged for her to switch both her Personal Pensions into a SIPP. 
The transfer took place on 21 February 2014 with £34,528.69 being transferred. The funds 
were invested across several unregulated bonds, unit trusts/open-ended investment 
companies, and cash.
In 2021, Mrs L complained to Portal Financial about the advice it had given her to transfer 
into the SIPP. Portal Financial did not respond to the complaint, and so Mrs L brought her 
concerns to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought the investments recommended were 
unsuitable for Mrs L, and concluded Portal Financial ought to have advised Mrs L to remain 
where she was. She recommended that Portal Financial calculate whether Mrs L had 
suffered a loss, and if so, compensate her for this. She also recommended that Portal 
Financial pay Mrs L £200 compensation for the inconvenience she had been caused by its 
advice. 
Portal Financial did not agree with our investigators recommendations. It said the SIPP met 
Mrs Ls needs because it was low-cost, and it allowed her the option to release tax-free cash 
without committing to receiving an annual income. Portal Financial said its adviser thought 
the performance of Mrs Ls Personal Pensions could be improved upon, when considering 
her attitude to risk and term to retirement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal Financial has not provided this service with its business file, and so my decision has 
been based upon the limited information we hold, and Mrs Ls explanation about her 
situation and requirements at the time. 
At the time of the advice, Mrs L was 51 years old and says she wanted the potential of 
accessing her pension at the age of 55. She lived in a mortgaged property, and was working 
part-time with annual earnings of between £7,000 and £8,000. She had no savings or 
previous investment experience, other than a cash ISA, and says she wanted to keep her 
pension funds safe. 
Given that Mrs L had no personal investment experience and wanted to keep her pension 
funds safe, I think its clear that Mrs L was a low-risk investor. Portal Financial has not 
provided any evidence which would suggest otherwise. 
Despite this, Portal Financial recommended that Mrs L transfer around half of her pension 
funds into illiquid bonds. The bonds invested in various projects, including property 
development in the UK and abroad. They aimed to provide returns of 7-11%. As our 
investigator has said, these returns alone would indicate the investments were high risk.
The FCA has provided guidance on Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS), 
which share similar characteristics to the unregulated bonds. The FCA guidance gives 
examples of good practice in relation to these investments - one such example says that a 
firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS investments within their customers 
portfolio and monitored it on an on-going basis. This level was between 3% and 5% and was 
backed-up by the firms robust and on-going due diligence and monitoring. Therefore, 
unregulated investments are not normally suitable for the ordinary investor and only a small 
proportion of a suitable investors portfolio should be invested in unregulated investments.
The bonds recommended to Mrs L were unregulated and were each dependent upon the 
success of a single business. Their lack of diversity and regulatory control meant they 
carried higher risks than mainstream regulated investments. A number of the bonds 
defaulted which further demonstrates the high level of risk to which Mrs L was exposed. I 
find that the bonds were completely unsuitable for Mrs L.
Also, around 40% of Mrs Ls pension was invested across funds that invested mainly in a 
mix of equities and fixed interest securities. As Portal Financial has not provided this service 
with information relating to any discussions it had with Mrs L around risk, I cannot safely say 
that Mrs L would have understood, or been willing to accept the risks that these funds 
presented. Particularly with regards to the higher risk equities, some of which were invested 
overseas. These funds would have only been suitable for an investor willing to take a risk 
with their money, yet Mrs L says she wanted security for her pension. So I also find that 
these investments were unsuitable for Mrs L.
I appreciate that Mrs L was concerned about the financial stability of her pension provider. 
However, I agree with our investigator that the most appropriate course of action would have 
been for her to remain where she was. She was invested in With-Profits funds which were 
suitable for lower risk investors, and she had a guaranteed investment return of 3.5%. 
Although the provider was no longer accepting new business in 2014, its existing policies 
continued to remain in force and be administered. 
As Ive said, I havent seen any evidence of the discussions that took place between Portal 
Financial and Mrs L at the time. Though even if Mrs L were adamant that she wanted to 
move away from her existing provider, given her cautious attitude to risk, I would have 
expected Portal Financial to recommend appropriate investments which matched this. But in 
the circumstances, I think the most appropriate way to calculate any compensation due 
would be to compare the performance of Mrs Ls current investments with the value of her 
investments had she remained with her previous provider. 
I agree with our investigator that Mrs L was caused unnecessary worry and inconvenience 
as a result of the unsuitable advice she received from Portal Financial. A number of the high-
risk bonds defaulted, and she would have been understandably worried about the impact of this on her pension fund. I think the unnecessary transfer of her pension fund into a SIPP 
has caused disruption to Mrs Ls pension planning.
what should Portal Financial do?
To compensate Mrs L fairly, Portal Financial must:
Compare the performance of the actual value of Mrs Ls investments with the 
notional value if her pensions had remained with her previous pension provider. It 
should pay the difference between the notional value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is 
payable. 
Portal Financial should also pay interest set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portal Financial should pay such amount as may be required into 
Mrs L's pension plan, allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase 
the pension plan value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal Financial is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs L's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs L's marginal rate of tax at 
retirement.
For example, if Mrs L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs L would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount. 
Pay Mrs L £200 for the trouble caused to her and the disruption to her retirement 
planning.
Interest
If Portal Financial considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs L how much it has taken off. Portal Financial should 
also give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
(start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists Notional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
decision8% simple 
per annum 
from date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation not paid 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
My aim is to return Mrs L to the position she would have been in but for the unsuitable 
advice. This is complicated where an investment within the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it 
could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult to know the 
actual value of the investment. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
to arrive at fair compensation. Portal Financial should take ownership of the illiquid 
investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the total payable to Mrs L and the balance be paid as I set out 
above.
If Portal Financial is unable to purchase the investments the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal Financial may wish to require that Mrs L 
provides an undertaking to pay Portal Financial any amount she may receive from the 
investment in the future.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs Ls investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal Financial should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal Financial total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, the 
investments need to be removed. But if Portal Financial cant buy the investments, then 
Mrs L is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP 
fees. So, if Portal Financial cant buy the investments, it should pay an amount equal to five 
years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation 
calculated using a nil value for the investment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Portal Financial Services LLP to 
pay the amount calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide 
details of its calculation to Mrs L in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman