DRN-3203903
The complaint
Mr A complains that Loans 2 Go Limited provided him with a loan that he was unable to 
afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go Limited provided Mr A with the following loan:
Date taken 
outAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableLoan status
15/03/17 £450 18 months £101.95 £1835.10 Debt sold 
on
Mr A got into difficulties with the repayments from May 2017 at which time he was signed off 
work on long term sickness. He paid one full instalment on the loan, then failed to make 
further payments until he reached an arrangement with Loans 2 Go. He made reduced 
payments of £24.63 from December 2017 through to June 2018. The loan was then sold on 
to a third party. Mr A says about £300 is still outstanding.
On referral to this service, our adjudicator said that she thought the checks carried out by 
Loans 2 Go went far enough and didnt think there was anything in the information it
gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to Mr A.
Mr A disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to consider whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr A would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and/or without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. Then taking that into account I have to 
consider whether in the circumstances Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision.
This was a high interest loan, to be repaid over an extended period. So Loans 2 Go should 
have assured itself not only that Mr A was able to make the repayments for the loan out of 
his income but also that it was sustainable over the course of the loan. 
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit check, and obtained two payslips and a bank statement from 
Mr A. Those checks showed that Mr A had a loan for which he was several months behind in 
payments and an outstanding old current account debt. He had two credit card debts of £200 
and £273. Mr A set out in his application that he would be repaying those debts at £50 per 
month each for the higher sums and £7 per month for each of the credit cards. Ive only seen 
a summary of his bank account which showed an overdraft which appeared to have 
increased over the month prior to the loan application.
On the face of it, based on the debts set out in the credit report and Mr As monthly income 
he should have been able to afford the loan repayment talking into account his monthly 
outgoings. However there were indications in Mr As credit record that might have alerted 
Loans 2 Go to carry out further checks. But Mr A hasnt supplied us or Loans 2 Go with any 
documentary evidence concerning his ability to repay the loan when he applied for it. So I 
cant say what any further checks might have revealed. The indications from his account 
notes were that he started to struggle to repay the loan when he was signed off on long term 
sickness in May 2017.
Based on the information provided to Loans 2 Go at the time of taking out the loan I think it 
made a fair lending decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman