DRN-2179015
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund her for a 
failed ATM cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mrs R went to an ATM to make a cash withdrawal. She said she put her card into the ATM 
followed by her PIN and she requested £300. However, the machine didnt dispense the 
cash.  She said she tried again at the same ATM. She requested the same amount and the 
cash was dispensed. She said she checked her account online a few days later and noticed 
that £300 had debited her account twice on the same day. She believed there was a fault 
with the ATM. 
She asked Halifax for a refund.
Halifax made enquiries of the ATM owner. It provided evidence which showed that the two 
withdrawals were made on separate days, on 28 September 2019 and on 29 September 
2019 and at different machines. The owner explained that because both withdrawals were 
made during a weekend, they debited on Monday 30 September 2019. It said its records 
showed that the cash was dispensed and there were no reported faults with the machines. 
Also, the cash in the first ATM was reconciled and there were no discrepancies.
Halifax decided not to refund Mrs R.
Mrs R didnt think Halifaxs decision was fair, so she asked this service to investigate. She 
told this service she wouldve remembered if shed made two cash withdrawals on different 
days because she doesnt go out much. And she said she wouldnt have been able to
withdraw £600 in one day because of her daily withdrawal limit.
An investigator looked into her complaint but decided not to uphold it. She was satisfied with 
the evidence from the ATM owner that the cash withdrawals took place on different days at 
different machines and that the cash was dispensed on each day. 
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators view. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ATMs are not infallible and mistakes do happen. So, where a consumer complains they 
didnt receive cash from an ATM, we will ask for various data from the business. In 
particular, we ask for the journal roll, which is an electronic record of all the transactions that 
day. We will also ask for evidence that the ATM balanced that day or in that accounting 
period. If cash wasnt dispensed, then it would show as a surplus. We also ask for details of 
whether there were any reported errors with the ATM or other claims raised that day, and 
any other relevant information to demonstrate whether there was a technical fault or any 
other deficiency. Where the business is not the ATM owner, we expect it to get the data from 
the owner. We will also consider the consumers description of the physical environment and 
people at the ATM.
This information helps me to reach a conclusion on what is most likely to have happened. 
Ive looked at the extract from the journal roll which was provided by the ATM owner. It 
confirms that the two cash withdrawals happened on separate days. It shows that Mrs Rs 
card was used to withdraw £300 on 28 September 2019 and again on 29 September 2019 
from different machines. Both were owned by the same business. This conflicts with Mrs Rs 
evidence that she tried to withdraw cash twice from the same ATM on the same day.
Errors or declined cash withdrawals are usually recorded on the journal roll. There are no 
errors marked on the extract that Ive seen. Ive noted that Mrs R didnt say whether shed 
noticed anything unusual or suspicious at the ATM. The journal roll also shows that on each 
day, there were other customers who used the same ATMs immediately before and after 
Mrs R. Theres no evidence that there was a fault with the machine. And Mrs R didnt 
mention whether the customer in front had complained about the ATM not working on 28 
September 2019. So, I think I can reasonably infer that the ATM was working that day.
The ATM owner also confirmed that the ATM, which shed used on 28 September 2019, 
balanced on 2 October 2019, meaning there was no surplus. If the £300 hadnt been 
dispensed, then I would expect to see it show as a surplus.
Im afraid I think its more likely than not, that Mrs R made two cash withdrawals on 28 and 
29 September 2019 and that the machines dispensed the cash on each day. I think Mrs R 
was probably confused when she saw both transactions debit her account on 30 September 
2019 and, not surprisingly, she was suspicious but mistaken.
Based on the technical evidence, I consider its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refuse a 
refund. 
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mrs R, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman