DRN-2142490
The complaint
Mr J complains that he has lost money as a result of the way St James's Place UK plc 
(SJP) dealt with his instruction to encash his investment. 
Background
Mr J held an investment in an ISA wrapper with SJP. On 27 February 2020, he gave an 
instruction by email to his advisor to encash his investment and send the proceeds to his 
bank account. He chased the advisor on several occasions over the next few days as he 
hadnt received the funds. When the funds arrived in his account, Mr J received 
approximately £2000 less than he was expecting based on the valuation he saw before 
giving his instruction. 
Mr J raised his concerns with SJP. It responded by saying that the encashment was 
completed at the earliest possible time. It said that Mr J had a direct debit in place to fund his 
ISA each month and at the time he gave his instruction a payment was pending. It said only 
once this payment was complete could a valuation and encashment take place. The direct 
debit was fully processed on 2 March 2020 and the funds were encashed the next day. 
Mr J was unhappy that he wasnt informed of the delays caused by the direct debit despite 
him chasing the encashment. SJP investigated the complaint but didnt think it had made 
any errors in completing the transaction. Mr J was not satisfied with SJPs response and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Js complaint should be upheld. In his opinion, SJP 
acted fairly when encashing the funds in the ISA and in line with Mr Js instructions. Mr J 
didnt accept the investigators view and said that he was never told that the existence of a 
direct debit could affect his ability to encash his investment. He says he would have given a 
different instruction had he known of this issue. He asked for his complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the conclusion that the complaint should not be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr J wanted to encash the funds in his ISA and gave a clear instruction. SJP said it 
completed the transaction as soon as it could and without delay. This was on the third 
working day after Mr J gave his instruction, so Ive considered whether SJP caused an 
avoidable delay when acting on the instruction. 
The transaction did take longer than Mr J expected. But I find the explanation given by SJP 
for the time it took to encash the investment as reasonable in the circumstances. SJP says 
Mr J had a pending direct debit at the time he gave the instruction. The terms of his ISA 
account say if a withdrawal requests is received it will happen at the next valuation point 
after it receives the request. SJP says the pending direct debit meant that it couldnt 
immediately value the ISA and it could only do this when the direct debit process was 
complete, and the new units were applied to the ISA.  As soon as the direct debit was 
complete the new units were purchased and SJP encashed the full ISA value with no delay.  
So I havent found that SJP caused a delay. 
I accept that SJPs advisor could have provided more information to Mr J about the effect of 
the pending direct debit had on his instruction. But I dont think this means that Mr J has lost 
out. He was told the reason for the transaction not completing as quickly as he expected 
within a few days. And there was little more that could be done if he found out sooner given 
the timing of the instruction. So, while I do appreciate Mr Js frustration about not being given 
more information, Im not going to be asking SJP to do anything further here. 
I have noted Mr Js comments about not being made aware of the impact of having a direct 
debit set up would have on his ability to encash his investment. He raised concerns that at 
no time during his association with SJP did it tell him anything about this. He says he would 
have acted differently if this would have been explained to him. He says he would have 
given his instruction before the end of the month to avoid any problems with completing his 
transaction. I understand Mr Js point, but I havent seen anything to suggest that he was 
considering encashing his investment at a specific early point. In his complaint referral to this 
service he explained that on the evening of 26 February 2020 he reviewed his ISA holdings 
and decided to liquidate his portfolio. So, it seems most likely this was the point he made his 
decision to encash. So even if he was aware of the issue of the pending direct debit he still 
would not have been able to encash his investment sooner.  
From the information available, I havent found anything to suggest SJP acted unfairly or 
made mistakes when following Mr Js instruction to encash his investment. I appreciate      
Mr Js disappointment with the value he received but that doesnt mean it was as a result of 
errors by SJP. Im satisfied SJP completed the encashment as soon as practically possible, 
as per Mr Js instructions. I havent found that SJP is responsible for any financial loss Mr J 
believes he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman