DRN-3669917
The complaint
Mr S and the estate of Mrs S complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited turned down a 
claim made under a term life insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs S sadly passed away so a representative of her estate spoke with 
Standard Life to make a claim under her life insurance policy. Standard Life turned down the 
claim saying the policy had ended a week before Mrs S passed away.
The representative of the estate complained to Standard Life saying there had been no 
notification the policy was coming to an end. Standard Life said there was no requirement for 
them to highlight to customers that their life cover was ending. They did however say that in 
this case they had sent a letter about this to Mrs S and her financial adviser several months 
before.
Remaining unhappy the representative of the estate brought the complaint to our service. 
They said the letter about the policy ending was never received by either Mrs S or the 
financial adviser. They went on to say that Mrs S would never have allowed the policy to end 
without another being put in place. Because of this they asked that Standard Life pay the full 
amount of a claim under the policy.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Standard Life had met 
their obligations and acted in line with the terms and conditions which showed the policy end 
date. They also mentioned that a letter about the policy coming to an end was mentioned in 
the first telephone call with Standard Life. 
The representative of the estate disagreed saying the real issue was that Standard Life 
didnt inform Mrs S that the policy was going to expire. They felt there was an obligation to 
ensure proactive communication with consumers. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the passing of Mrs S and whats happened with the policy has added 
more stress and worry for her family at an already difficult time.  
The representative of the estate says that neither Mrs S nor her financial adviser received a 
copy of the letter saying the policy was coming to an end. However Standard Life say they 
were both sent. The receipt, or non-receipt, of this letter forms an important part of the 
complaint for the representatives of the estate. 
Having looked through the available policy documents theres nothing that says Standard 
Life would contact a policy holder as the end of the term approaches. 
So even if a letter wasnt sent, then I would still think that Standard Life acted fairly and 
reasonably as there was no requirement for that to happen. However, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think it most likely that the letters were sent, even if I cant say why they 
werent received.
When first speaking to Standard Life to let them know of the passing of Mrs S the 
representative of the estate mentioned a letter with the expiry date of the policy. They asked 
if there was anything in place and if Mrs S had contacted them. Standard Life said they 
hadnt heard from Mrs S and that since the policy had ended there was no claim to be made.
The representative of the estate says that they were referring to the original policy letter they 
had found. And Ive no reason to doubt thats the case. But what that does mean is that I 
think therefore the original policy documents made the expiry date clear. So even if Mrs S 
didnt receive a letter before the expiry date, the original documents from Standard Life were 
sufficiently clear about the term and when it ended. And having looked at the original policy 
documents I think the end date is made clear.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Standard Life acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mrs S so I wont be asking them to do anything further. I 
know this is an upsetting issue for Mr S and the representative of the estate however I dont 
think Standard Life made any errors in administering the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman