DRN-4088025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay their costs
associated with the repair/ renewal of underground pipes in respect of their claim for
accidental damage to their underground pipes. Whilst noting they are joint policyholders, as
it is Mr K who made the claim, for convenience in this decision I shall refer just to him as
being the consumer.
What happened
Mr Ks propertys drainage system is off mains and consists of a sewage treatment plant
(STP), with drainage into a catchpit and ultimately the treated water flows into a pond in a
neighbouring field.
In February 2021 Mr K made a claim in respect of a blockage in the pipe leading from his
home to the STP. Cracks were found in the pipe and repairs carried out. The pipe was
sleeved. Lloyds paid for the repair.
In April 2021 it was noticed that the lawn was unusually wet in the southwest corner of the
garden. Another area close to the catch pit also appeared to be saturated. Mr K employed
drainage contractors first of all to excavate the areas and then to carry out repairs. The claim
was reported to Lloyds on 24 May 2021.
The contractors found that the (clay) pipe downstream of the catch pit was blocked by roots
and silt. CCTV footage showed there were open joints. The pipe had to be broken into and a
run of 12 m was replaced and sleeved.
From the end of that pipe a UPVC perforated pipe ran down across the neighbours field,
ultimately to a pond. The contractors found this to be blocked with tree roots. They
attempted to remove them but this proved difficult. It was decided that a 16m run of the pipe
would be replaced and put in a different position. This was because the existing pipe couldnt
be located without excavating a large area of the garden, which would have involved
destroying the planting, hedging, and fencing in that area and damaging the tree roots of
some large adjacent trees. The work was completed and the cost of it notified to Lloyds.
Lloyds considered Mr Ks claim. It initially said that it could agree cover for only £216 visible 
accidental damage in respect of the clay pipe. It said the other repairs to this section of pipe
were necessary because each joint along the 12 metres was out of alignment. This
evidenced that the pipe was either laid out of alignment or had gradually bedded into the soil
over the years and the rigid joints had moved as the ground around the pipe had moved with
the seasons. So it said that the damage was gradual (which is excluded under the policy)
and wasnt accidental damage as defined in the policy. It pointed out that, in regard to the
UPVC pipe, the evidence was that this was blocked by tree roots (at least the 16m section
replaced) but no evidence had been shown of physical damage to the pipe.
Lloyds subsequently offered (and paid) the £1,000 limit for the cost of breaking into and
repairing the pipe where there is a blockage in an underground pipe connecting the home to
the main sewer and normal methods of releasing the blockage to restore service are
unsuccessful. Since the home isnt connected to the main sewer Lloyds said this offer was
made in error but said it wouldnt request the return of the money.
Lloyds reviewed the matter when it sent its file to us. It agreed to reconsider the claim for the
12m clay pipe but maintained its decision concerning the UPVC pipe.
Mr K subsequently had an engineer (M) carry out a report.
On review by our Investigator, they said that Lloyds should pay for the cost of both the clay
pipe and the UPVC pipe. This was because they were satisfied that the claim was covered
under accidental damage to services in the policy. As Mr K had had all the repairs done
before Lloyds had an opportunity to review and offer a settlement, they said that it should
pay Mr K the amount that it wouldve cost it to do the same works. They further said that
Lloyds should pay the cost of Ms report, and pay £150 compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Lloyds should pay for the cost of repairing the 
broken section of clay pipe and the associated costs of investigation and reinstatement of 
the lawn. However I said that in my view Mr K hadnt shown that there was physical damage 
to the UPVC pipe., so Lloyds had no liability to pay for the repair and replacement of the 
UPVC pipe.
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings.
Mr K didnt accept those findings. In his submissions he said, in summary:
Part of the repair to the UPVC pipe was to replace a section of the clay pipe, so I should 
therefore allow a further cost, of 20% of the cost of the new UPVC pipe for this (the clay 
pipe section).
The £1,000 paid by Lloyds shouldnt be deducted from the settlement, as that was a 
payment in respect of the UPVC pipe. 
Lloyds failed to carry out any reconsideration of the claim for the section of clay pipe.
He has referred me to what he considers to be legal authority for his contention that the 
blocking of a pipe with roots is physical damage.
He believes that he should be awarded his legal costs because Lloyds acted in breach of 
The Financial Ombudsman Services guidance and in breach of the rules. He believes I 
should make a finding that Lloyds acted in bad faith.
He has provided details of the previously uncalculated costs of hedging and fencing.
He believes I should order Lloyds to pay Ms costs as it addressed the arguments made 
by Lloyds in its final response letter.
He maintains that £150 isnt adequate compensation. He proposes that the award should 
be £2,500 each for himself and Mrs K.
He suggested some changes to my wording.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
the claim
I think that, notwithstanding the large amount of material provided, the issues to be decided
in this case are quite straightforward. That is whether Lloyds should pay the claim for the
repair/replacement of the clay pipe and/or the UPVC pipe under the accidental damage to
services cover in the policy.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force
and is not expected and not deliberate.
Services are defined as:
Underground cables, pipes, drains, tanks, and their inspection covers serving your home
and for which you are legally responsible.
I think both pipes would fall to be considered under this particular cover. I will go on to
decide whether there was accidental damage.
clay pipe
As well as being blocked with roots, Lloyds engineers review of this section of pipe showed
structural damage for part of the run and also displaced joints. Our approach in respect of
accidental damage to underground pipes is that, unless the business can show that an
exclusion applies it is fair to say that there was accidental damage (if it complies with the
definition in the policy). This is because the consumer couldnt be expected to notice any
damage until some evidence of it occurs above ground (here - saturation of certain areas).
As regards Lloyds indication that it wont pay any settlement until Mr K has confirmed
compliance with the Binding Rules, I dont think thats reasonable. The repairs have been
done, and not by Lloyds contractor. It isnt being asked to pay for any upgrade to comply 
with those rules and it is up to Mr K if he needs to carry out any further work to so comply.
I am in agreement with the Investigator concerning Lloyds liability in this respect. It has had
ample opportunity to consider its position, and I see no point in prolonging matters further by
allowing further investigations. I think Lloyds should pay Mr K a cash settlement to cover the
repairs to this pipe. Ill set out below what I think it should pay.
UPVC pipe
I have to revert here to the definition of this in the policy  there must be physical damage to
the pipe (my underlining). The review of the CCTV footage, photos, and reports from both
the contractors and M, show that the pipe was blocked (up to the boundary of the property)
by roots. Whilst a blockage in itself can be damage, it isnt physical damage to the pipe as it
can be fully functional after removing the blockage. I understand the reason why the pipe run
was completely replaced, and no doubt this was a sensible preventative measure. But I bear
in mind that this work was undertaken without any consultation with Lloyds.
Mr K says that a new connection had to be made from the UVPC pipe to the repaired pipe,
which had been broken into in order to clear it, and therefore shortened in the process.However, the end of the UPVC pipe on the property could not be traced in order that this
may be done. And parts of the pipe were dug up during the excavation. Im inclined to think
that if this happened, more care should have been taken and such damage would have been
expected. So I think the issue here, in line with our approach to this or similar definitions in 
policies is whether it can be shown that there was actual physical damage to the pipe. Unlike 
the clay pipe however I dont think that has been shown here. So I dont think that Lloyds has 
a liability to pay for the repair and replacement of the UPVC pipe.
I havent addressed Lloyds other issues here, concerning the foreseeability of root blockage
to a perforated pipe because I dont think theyre relevant. Although I would observe that I
havent seen any indication that that type of pipe is inappropriate for this sort of system.
legal costs
Mr K submits that he is entitled to claim his legal costs based on his own charge out rate. His
justification is that Lloyds deliberately failed to comply with the Financial Ombudsman
Services and industry guidance.
I should remind Mr K that we are an informal complaint resolution service. I would point out
that DISP 3.7.10 of the Dispute Resolution Rules says:
In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers to bring
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service so awards of costs are unlikely to be
common.
As Ive said the case involves two quite straightforward issues concerning two sections of
pipe. Mr K didnt in my view require legal advice to pursue his claim. And we dont award the
consumer their costs for bringing a complaint to us. I would question whether a prudent
consumer would incur £28,000 of costs to pursue a claim for less than £9,000. Theres no
concept of awarding indemnity costs in our approach to cases, and we are not the regulator
so do not make awards to punish businesses. The cases Mr K quotes may be relevant to
court proceedings but not to the Financial Ombudsman Service complaints procedures. 
To the extent that Lloyds may have prolonged the claim if it failed to comply with any
particular rules/guidance, that may be grounds for a compensation award. But every case is
different and I do note here that Lloyds was willing to change its stance when it forwarded its
file to us. And the fact that I have upheld only part of the complaint would justify its stance on
the UPVC pipe.
I dont intend to award Mr Ks legal costs.
premiums
Mr K seeks the return of three years premiums for the same reasons as he seeks to claim
his legal costs. If this meant cancellation of the policies for those three years, that would
leave Mr K uninsured and liable to pay back any claims he had made in those three years. If
he is simply proposing that Lloyds refund the premiums and keep the policies intact, that
would be extra compensation. I will deal with compensation below, but I wont award any
return of premiums.
Mr Ks comments on my provisional findings:
Part of the new UPVC pipe was to replace a section of the clay pipe, so I should 
therefore allow a further cost, of 20% of the cost of the new UPVC pipe for this. 
I have to say that the report from the drainage contractors doesnt make this clear, nor is the cost of the UPVC pipe broken down between materials, labour etc. But putting together the 
evidence I believe that a small section of the clay pipe was broken into and replaced with a 
UPVC pipe which then formed part of the longer run of that pipe. I think the bulk of the work 
concerning that pipe was because of having to replace the blocked old UPVC pipe which I 
have found isnt covered. I assess the cost of this small section of pipe, taking that into 
account to be £200 (inclusive of VAT).
The £1,000 that Lloyds paid was in respect of the UPVC pipe, so shouldnt be deducted 
from the settlement. 
Ill accept that and note that even though strictly speaking the policy term it was paid under 
doesnt apply, Lloyds has not sought to recoup that cost. My revised calculations are set out 
below.
Lloyds failed to carry out any reconsideration of the section of clay pipe.
I think theres been a misunderstanding here. When Mr K sent in his complaint summary to 
the Financial Ombudsman, in March 2022 he said that Full reasons and supporting 
evidence, including photographs, will be provided in a detailed Statement of Case including 
photographs together with a paginated bundle of correspondence to follow.
Lloyds asked for that so that it could review the complaint. As it wasnt forthcoming (and 
wasnt supplied until January 2023) our Investigator asked Lloyds to submit its file. As a part 
of that Lloyds proposed that its claims team be asked to re-open the claim and give 
consideration to the full repair of the (clay pipe) section of the drain. But there was no point 
in it doing that if that proposed resolution wasnt accepted (as indeed it wasnt). But I still 
consider that at that stage Lloyds had changed its stance  the customer services agent 
specifically said that they disagreed with its previous review of this part of the claim.
Mr K maintains that there is legal authority for his assertion that there was physical 
damage to the UPVC pipe.
The case he refers to he has shown us before. It doesnt address the issue of physical 
damage (as opposed to just damage). So I dont think thats relevant. I have made my 
position on this clear in my provisional findings and Ive seen nothing to cause me to alter my 
view on this point.
Mr K believes that his claim for legal costs is justified because Lloyds acted in breach of 
the Financial Ombudsman Services rules and guidance. He asks that I make a finding 
that Lloyds acted in bad faith.
I decline to make such a finding. As far as accidental damage is concerned its still open to a 
business to argue that gradual damage applies and that it was foreseeable. I understand 
from the internal emails that Lloyds disagrees with our position (which weve held for some 
years) that the effects of a blockage can occur suddenly. Ive already set out in my 
provisional findings my views on that point. And Ive not seen any further evidence to 
persuade me that Mr K was justified in seeking his legal costs.
Mr K believes he should be paid the cost of Ms report.
As regards Ms costs I appreciate that Mr K told us he was going to instruct an engineer. But 
he still has to justify the costs of that. Ms findings and summary related exclusively to the 
section of clay pipe (referred to as the downstream pipe), it didnt address whether the 
UPVC pipe should be covered. When Mr K instructed M Lloyds had already offered to 
reconsider the section of clay pipe. So the report didnt add anything new. I wont award the cost of this report.
As regards compensation for distress and inconvenience, Ive already set out my view on 
this in my provisional findings and have seen nothing further to persuade me otherwise.
Lastly, Ive set out the background above as it appeared in my provisional decision. Ive 
amended it to reflect that M didnt carry out a site inspection and to delete the wording 
concerning deducting £1,000. Otherwise I dont see the need to alter it any further.
Otherwise, my provisional findings, apart from where Ive set this out above, havent 
changed and are therefore final and form part of this final decision.
compensation
Mr K will be aware of our guidance on compensation awards. I think that he was put to some
distress and inconvenience in having to argue his claim. But in line with our awards in similar
cases I think £150 is a fair award in this respect.
As for Mr Ks costs, I dont think its in his or Lloyds interests to prolong this further by
arguments over what Lloyds should pay to settle matters. The costs for repairing/replacing 
the broken section of clay pipe appear reasonable to me, and have been paid by Mr K 
including VAT. And Mr K has sent in estimates of the cost of hedging, planting, and fencing.  
I think it reasonable to award the following:
Excavation and repair work for the repaired clay pipe: £ 3,228 inc. VAT
New UPVC section of that pipe:     £   200 inc VAT
Initial excavation, trace, and repair work:     £1,260 inc VAT
Reinstatement of the lawn:     £    420
Lawn dressing for reinstatement of lawn:         £    250
Pump           £      99
Fencing: fence posts     £      36
   wire mesh     £    113
labour:         £    120
Hedging: mature plants and compost     £    510
    labour     £    120 (as per the fencing)1. 
reseeding grass verge     £      50 allowed1
other plants     £    290
Total    £ 6,696
less policy excess:     £    150
less paid on account     £    216.84
Total payable:       £ 6,329.16
1future maintenance (watering etc) not included
I have advised both parties about the extra costs. Mr K has also provided us with an interest 
calculation, he should provide that to Lloyds. I wont set a figure for this as it will change 
depending on when it is paid, Ive set out the formula for calculating this.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs K £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience,
and the total payable set out under compensation above, subject to Mr K providingthe relevant invoices where not already provided.
It should add simple interest at 8% from the dates of payment of the invoices until
reimbursement.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Lloyds to deduct tax from any award of interest. It
must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if they ask
for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide 
the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman