DRN-1812405
The complaint
Ms B complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have unfairly 
declined her claim made under her Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) policy. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
very brief summary here. In 2017 Ms B was in the Republic of Ireland when she suffered a 
fall. She attended a hospital W and was told she had no broken bones. Ms B continued to 
be in a significant amount of pain and says that she later discovered (after following advice 
from her GP) that she did have several fractures. Ms B says her condition worsened due to 
the inaction of W.
In 2019 Ms B made a claim to DAS, she said she wished to pursue W for clinical negligence. 
DAS declined the claim. They highlighted two exclusions to the policy which they say applied 
to Ms Bs claim. Ms B didnt accept this and complained. When DAS maintained their 
position the complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld, she concluded that DAS had acted fairly in the circumstances. 
As she still disagrees, Ms B has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for the essentially the same reasons. Let 
me explain why. Firstly, I cant comment on Ms Bs underlying legal claim against W. I can 
only consider if DAS have acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances when 
declining the claim. 
Ms Bs policy makes clear that an insured incident must have taken place within the 
countries covered. And other than for claims relating to contract disputes and personal 
injury the countries covered are: The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.
Terms like this are common in this type of insurance and I dont think they are inherently 
unfair. DAS only wish to cover clinical negligence in relation to a few specified countries 
which would generally relate to where most of their customers live. Its clear it wasnt their 
intention to offer such cover for when their customers were in different countries not included 
in the above list.
It isnt in dispute that this incident took place within the Republic of Ireland and as such I 
agree with DAS that a claim for clinical negligence which took place there is excluded from 
cover. DAS also detailed that even if the claim werent excluded on that basis, there is a 
further exclusion that would apply relating to a failure to correctly diagnose a condition. I agree that exclusion would also apply, but I wont deal with that in detail as Im satisfied the 
first exclusion is sufficient to fairly decline the claim. 
Ms B raised that she thinks her claim should be considered under the Personal Injury 
section of the policy. This section isnt subject to the same geographical exclusion. Ms B 
says that Ws failure to act and their negligence, whilst not responsible for her initial injuries, 
caused her separate and further injury. I can understand why Ms B says this. But I agree 
with our investigator that I this isnt something her policy provides cover for.
The Personal Injury section of Ms Bs policy under the heading of What we dont cover 
says: Clinical Negligence. I think this makes clear that injuries sustained as a result of 
clinical negligence are excluded from cover under the personal injury section of the policy. 
Again, I dont think this is unfair as DAS have set out a specific section for clinical negligence 
which explains the cover available for that type of claim. I also think the circumstances of this 
complaint mean that it was fair for DAS not to consider Ms Bs claim under the personal 
injury section of the policy. 
I understand this will be disappointing for Ms B. And Id urge her to consider the advice DAS 
gave her about ways to potentially progress her legal claim outside of her policy  if she 
wishes to pursue the matter. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think DAS have acted 
outside the policy terms or unfairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
Ms B also recently told our investigator about issues with regard to who is handling phone 
calls for DAS. This isnt something that has previously been considered to the best of my 
knowledge by DAS or our service, so it isnt something I can comment on here. This is a 
separate issue which Ms B should take up with DAS in the first instance  should she wish 
to. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman