DRN-4100904
The complaint
Mr A has made various complaints about how Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) handled his loan and his 
subsequent complaint concerning finance it provided for a timeshare product.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr A purchased a timeshare product from a company I will call C. It cost 
£8,500 and this was funded by finance provided by a lender I will call H.  The loan was 
settled and subsequently the loan portfolio was sold to Oplo. 
Mr A has made a number of complaints, but for the purposes of this decision I am asked to 
consider if there was an unfair relationship under s.140A Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Mr As initial complaint to this service was made out of time and so I cannot consider the 
issues he raised with Oplo as part of that complaint. These issues have been dealt with 
separately.
He has also referenced s.75 CCA and whether the correct checks were made by the lender 
to ensure the loan was affordable. On the matter of s.75 I have not seen that he made a 
claim to Oplo under that legislation and so I cannot address any complaint since the bank 
has not had the chance to say whether or not it would accept such a claim and why. The 
bank more recently issued a final response letter to Mr A on the matter of affordability, but he 
has not responded to that so it is not an issue I can consider in this decision.  
Mr A has raised a number of concerns about the sale which he says gave rise to an unfair 
relationship. It seems his original concerns were triggered by C going into liquidation. He has 
said the broker failed to disclose any commission it might have received, the sale was 
pressurised and it was sold as an investment.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who having dealt with the matter 
of jurisdiction didnt recommend that it be upheld. He did not consider there was evidence to 
support Mr As claim that there had been an unfair relationship. Nor did he believe there had 
been misrepresentation by C and he noted the agreement referred to commission being paid 
so this had not been hidden. He also touched on the issue of the broker and noted the 
relevant permissions were in place.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
t When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
Misrepresentation
Mr A alleges that the holiday product was mispresented to him. Not having been present at 
the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, but as our investigator has 
pointed out a positive sales pitch by Cs representative is not enough to allow me to 
conclude there was misrepresentation. Furthermore his claim that he was not told about 
commission is undermined by the agreement containing a reference of commission. In short, 
Mr A is asking Oplo to repay him a significant sum of money and it is reasonable for the 
business to be provided with clear evidence in support of that claim. I acknowledge Mr As 
testimony, but in the circumstances I do not consider this is enough to demonstrate 
misrepresentation.
Section140A CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr A and Oplo were 
unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr A could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Oplo anyway.
Mr As alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Oplo assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
Even if that were not the case I cannot see that there was an unfair relationship. There is no 
evidence of misrepresentation and a possible commission payment was not hidden. 
Furthermore, Mr A had a 14 day withdrawal period which he did not use. None of this points towards an unfair relationship.
Finally although the matter of the brokers status has been considered previously I would 
add that I am in agreement with our investigators conclusions.
I have every sympathy with Mr A, but I do not consider his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman