DRN-3816480
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has handled his
claim on his car insurance policy and, in particular, says its cash-in-lieu settlement offer is
unfair.
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged when it was hit by a tree that fell from his neighbours property. He
claimed on his car insurance policy and Admiral accepted the claim.
Mr W is unhappy about how Admiral and its agents have handled his claim. Mr Ws concerns
were, and are, many and wide-ranging. From reading Mr Ws case file, I think his most
pressing concern, however, is that Admiral hasnt offered him a fair cash-in-lieu settlement
for the repairs his car needs. But he also has significant concerns about the service hes had
throughout his claim from Admiral and its agents.
When Admiral responded to Mr Ws complaint in February this year, it listed 20 complaint
points Mr W had raised about how it had handled his claim in the preceding two months or
so. Admiral upheld 10 of them. It agreed to allow Mr Ws no claims discount and reimbursed
him his policy excess of £450. Admiral also offered (and I believe has paid) Mr W:
£120 for the loss of use of his car (this is because Admiral didnt give him the
courtesy car his policy entitled him to for a period of time).
£35 for his car to be valeted.
£25 to reimburse his phone call costs.
£300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
But Admiral said its cash-in-lieu settlement offer of £1,330.76 was fair and reasonable, being
based on the recommendations of an independent assessor and its in-house engineer.
Admiral also didnt uphold Mr Ws complaints about the courtesy car he was given (which he
said was too small for him), about the location of his car (Mr W thinks there was a period
when Admiral lost his car) and about the way it described the tree that fell on Mr Ws car
(one of Admirals independent assessors said the damage it sustained was consistent with a
large bush, rather than a tree).
So Mr W brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt think Admiral
had treated Mr W fairly. From the evidence, our investigator thought Admirals cash-in-lieu
settlement offer was unreasonable. But she didnt think that Mr W was entitled to a bigger
courtesy car, that Admiral had lost Mr Ws car (although she said it had miscommunicated its
location to Mr W) or that the description of the tree was made with any malice or intent to
affect Mr Ws claim.
Our investigator recommended Admiral increase its cash-in-lieu settlement offer to
£6,326.83, being the average of two estimates there are for the repair costs to Mr Ws car.
She also recommended Admiral pay Mr W a further £150 in compensation for the trouble
and upset its cash-in-lieu settlement offer and its miscommunication about the location of his
car had caused him.
Admiral responded to our investigators view by saying it was investigating some new
complaint points Mr W had made. It said some of these overlapped with those forming part
of this complaint. And Admiral said it wanted to send Mr Ws car for further tests, which
might lead to its original cash-in-lieu settlement offer being confirmed or a new one being
offered. Because of this, it didnt accept our investigators view of Mr Ws complaint and so it
was referred to me.
When I looked at Mr Ws case file, I thought it was reasonable for Admiral to carry out the
further tests it wanted, because this might resolve Mr Ws main complaint. Mr W booked his
car in for the tests with a main dealer, as requested by Admiral. For reasons I dont fully
understand (but which certainly werent Mr Ws fault), the main dealer refused to accept
his car and so it was returned to him without any tests having been done.
Admiral said its complaint handler was in discussions with senior management about the
complaint but accepted I might want to make a decision on it.
In my provisional decision of 24 October 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint (as our investigator had) but had reached a slightly different conclusion from her 
about how Admiral should put things right for Mr W.
Mr W has accepted my provisional decision. 
After Id issued my provisional decision, Admiral did a number of things, in the following 
order:
Admiral wrote to Mr W asking him to book his car in again for inspection with his 
preferred repairer. Mr W showed us Admirals letter but didnt respond to Admiral 
about it. 
Admiral then wrote to us saying it didnt accept my provisional decision. It said Mr W 
hadnt responded to its latest request for another inspection. It said that, due to the 
difference between the estimates, the car needed to be reviewed by a main dealer. It 
said this was its independent assessors recommendation and one subsequently 
agreed to by me. It said it needed to ensure the estimates were accurate and in 
relation to the incident. And Admiral said while there may be concerns with how long 
this case has been ongoing, there has also been a lack of contact from the customer 
to help ensure the case moved forward amicably for both parties, and the recent 
issues with the main dealer have not helped the situation.
The day after Admiral wrote to us saying it didnt accept my provisional decision, it 
phoned Mr W and offered to write-off his car. On the same day, it then wrote to Mr W 
offering him a total loss settlement of £8,570, which Mr W told us hed rejected.
The day after Admiral wrote to Mr W offering him a total loss settlement of £8,570, it 
wrote to us again saying that, after a further review of the complaint, it accepted my 
provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr W a cash-in-lieu settlement of £7,681.44. 
It also said please note this makes the vehicle a total loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. In my provisional decision, I explained my reasons for doing so by 
looking at Mr Ws main complaint points in turn, as follows:
The cash-in-lieu settlement offer
Under Mr Ws policy, Admiral can choose how it settles Mr Ws claim. And his policy says if
Admiral deems his car is repairable but its unable to complete or guarantee the repairs, it
will offer him a cash sum to cover the reasonable costs of parts and labour. So Admiral is
entitled to offer Mr W cash instead of carrying out repairs itself. What I have to consider,
though, based on the evidence I have, is whether Admirals cash-in-lieu settlement offer of
£1,330.76 is fair and reasonable.
What makes this issue difficult to decide is that the evidence I have from Admiral on the
damage to Mr Ws car caused by the fallen tree, which is set out in three independent
assessors reports, is contradictory. Ill briefly summarise each report.
The first report
This is the report on which Admiral relied to make its cash-in-lieu settlement offer. Its dated
5 January 2022 and is based on an inspection by an independent assessor that took place
on 30 December 2021.
The report gives a reserve of £1,780.76 (from which Mr Ws excess of £450 (now
reimbursed) was deducted to give Admirals cash-in-lieu settlement offer amount). Among
other things, it says the roof and boot showed dents consistent with storm damage, along
with debris inside the car. It lists a number of new parts, repairs and specialist repairs that
are needed. It says the car had no mechanical issues other than normal serviceable items
and there is pre-incident damage that would cost around £450 to repair. It also concludes
that: if we were to allow what the owner felt was storm damage it would render this vehicle a
total loss.
The second report
This report is dated 24 April 2022, the same date as a second assessor inspected the car.
The report is by a different assessor. But he works for the same independent assessment
company as the assessor who gave the first report. The second report is described as a
post-repair inspection (although, if my understanding is correct, no repairs to Mr Ws car
had (or have) been carried out by Admiral or its agents). It seems likely the assessor who
made this report was unaware of the first report. 
This report doesnt give a reserve for repairs. But it identifies more new parts, more repairs
and more specialist repairs than the first report. It says the car has damage to the right-hand
side, the roof and the boot, as well as suspected suspension damage. It says theres
additional damage to the near side front wing and door and to the rear bumper that Mr W
says wasnt there when the car was first taken to Admirals authorised repairer.
The assessors recommendation is that a new survey is carried out to look at what caused
the additional damage Mr W was claiming for and at whether the suspension issue was
incident-related or due to wear and tear. The report says, given the cars age and mileage,
wear and tear would need to be considered generally.
The assessors final conclusion is that Mr Ws car is not roadworthy because of the distortionto the panels which could fall off, or inadvertently open when used, causing injury to others.
The assessor also notes repair costs have been estimated by an engineer but he hasnt
agreed them. Mr W sent us this engineers estimate, which is £8,131.44. It includes costs for
repairing the nearside front wing and door and rear bumper and investigating the creaking
noise from the suspension.
The third report
This report is dated 30 May 2022. But it gives the same inspection date as the first report, 30
December 2021. It seems this report is an update by the first assessor to his original report,
and followed an email from Admirals in-house engineer, possibly after Mr W disputed the
original findings. I dont know if the first assessor had seen his colleagues second report
when he gave his updated comments on the first report.
This time, the report gives an increased reserve of £4,522.21 (rather than the original
£1,780.76). As you might expect given the increase, it identifies more new parts, more
repairs and more specialist repairs than in the first report. It continues to show pre-accident
damage costing £450 to repair. The report also lists 12 specific areas of additional damage 
presumably issues identified by Mr W, which include the nearside front wing and door and
rear bumper  and gives the assessors view that its unlikely this damage was caused by
the fallen tree. In conclusion, he says he stands by his first report.
From internal notes Ive seen, Admiral asked the second assessor for a full explanation of
the findings in his report, which it describes as putting Admiral in an unwelcome position.
And Admirals in-house engineer notes the second report may have given Mr W the
impression it didnt investigate the claim properly initially  something the engineer doesnt
think is correct.
So far, I havent seen any evidence from Admiral to invalidate the findings of the second
report. If Admiral now has further information on this, please could I see it.
In any case, I believe it was because the conclusions in the second report were at variance
with those in the first, and because the second assessor recommended it, that Admiral
asked for Mr Ws car to be re-assessed. But, as Ive already said, that inspection (scheduled
for earlier this month) didnt take place.
So I have to decide, based on the contradictory evidence I have, what a fair and reasonable
cash-in-lieu settlement offer for Mr Ws claim should be. Given that the first assessor
subsequently increased his reserve in his updated report, I dont think Admirals original offer
of £1,780.76 (reduced to £1330.76 because of Mr Ws excess) was fair.
My starting point therefore has to be the first assessors second reserve of £4,522.21. But
then I have to consider the second assessors report and the repair estimate of £8,131.44,
which I believe was based on it.
Ive already noted the second assessor says he hasnt agreed the costs in this estimate. But,
at the same time, theyre all I have following the second report  which is also when Mr Ws
car was most recently inspected. And the estimate clearly includes costs that Admiral
disputes relate to the fallen tree.
As Ive said, this is difficult. But my current thinking is that a fair and reasonable cash-in-lieu
settlement offer for Mr Ws claim is £7,681.44. Ive reached this figure using the estimate of
£8,131.44. From this amount, Ive deducted £450. This is what the first assessor estimated
were the repair costs for what he calls pre-incident damage.I know this deduction will be contentious for Mr W. He says this additional damage was
caused by Admirals authorised repairer after the incident. But, so far, hes given us no
evidence  apart from his own testimony  to support his view. And both assessors agree
the additional damage isnt related to the fallen tree. So unless Mr W can give me more
evidence to support his view that the authorised repairer caused the additional damage to
his car, I think its fair and reasonable to make this deduction from the settlement amount.
I know Mr W has also said a fair and reasonable resolution to his claim would be for Admiral
to write-off his car. I can see why this would be attractive to him after such a protracted
process to settle his repair costs. But the car would need to be re-inspected to get a write-off
value, which would then need to be agreed by the parties. That would take more time and
could well lead to more disputes. I dont think thats the right thing to do here.
So, as Ive said, based on what Ive seen so far, its my current intention to direct Admiral to
settle Mr Ws claim in the amount of £7,681.44. But I must emphasise to Mr W and Admiral
that further evidence from either of them could change my provisional findings on this part of
Mr Ws complaint.
The location of Mr Ws car
In her view on Mr Ws complaint, our investigator sets out the timeline of events that led to
Mr W believing Admiral had lost his car, so I dont need to repeat that timeline here. Im
satisfied the car was actually with a main dealer at the relevant times and not lost. But there
were at least two times when poor communication by Admiral led Mr W to believe it didnt
know where his car was. This has clearly been upsetting and worrying for him and I think its
fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr W compensation for this, as Ill set out below.
The description of the tree that fell on Mr Ws car
I know Mr W is upset Admirals first assessor described the damage to Mr Ws car as having
been caused by a tree of a kind but more in keeping with a large bush, not a typical tree.
Im not sure I know what a typical tree is. But the photos Mr W has sent us of the tree
before it fell leaves me in no doubt that it was a tree, although thickly covered in ivy as well.
I dont think the assessors description was malicious. I think he probably referred to the
large bush to back up his findings that the damage it caused to Mr Ws car it wasnt as
extensive as Mr W said. In that sense, I dont think it affected the assessment of the claim.
The courtesy car
Mr Ws policy didnt entitle him to a like-for-like replacement for his own car and said it would
typically be a small hatchback. So I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about the courtesy car
he was given initially.
I note, though, that Admiral has since upgraded Mr Ws courtesy car to one thats more
comfortable for him. And I believe its most recently said hell be able to keep the car  even
though hes taken out a new car insurance policy with another insurance company  until his
own car is repaired. I think thats fair and reasonable, especially since Mr W has been
unable to drive his car for a number of months following the second assessors finding that it
wasnt roadworthy.
Putting things right
Ive already said my current view is that a fair and reasonable settlement amount for Mr Ws
claim is £7,681.44. I believe Admiral has already paid Mr W its initial settlement offer(£1330.76). If Im right (and please could Admiral or Mr W confirm it), Admiral can deduct
this from the final settlement amount.
I also believe Admiral has already paid Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience its
caused him. I think a further award of £150 is fair and reasonable for the additional distress
and inconvenience Admiral has caused Mr W. This is firstly because he had the stress of
thinking his car was lost (although I dont think it was). And secondly because Admiral
insisted on maintaining its original cash-in-lieu settlement offer  even when a later report
and a later estimate showed increased repair costs.
Before I conclude this decision, I would like to say my aim in making these provisional
findings is to find a way to bring this claim  and all of Mr Ws complaints about its handling 
to a final close. Mr Ws case file has been difficult to unravel in places. So if Mr W or Admiral
thinks Ive got something wrong  or if Mr W has outstanding complaint points he thinks I
havent dealt with  it is important to let me know before I make a final decision on this
complaint.
As Ive already said, Mr W has accepted my provisional decision.
Admirals final position is that it accepts my provisional decision and agrees to pay Mr W a 
cash-in-lieu settlement of £7,681.44. But, to avoid any further confusion, I think it makes 
sense for me to respond to the points Admiral made in its first response to us, when it didnt 
accept my provisional decision (as Ive outlined them above). 
Admirals letter to Mr W asking him to book his car in for another inspection was sent a few 
days after Id issued my provisional decision. And that decision didnt include any direction 
for the car to be inspected again. Mr W was waiting for a final decision from me on this 
complaint, so Im not surprised he didnt respond to Admirals letter.
When I first looked at Mr Ws case file, it was clear his claim had been ongoing for a 
considerable time  more than I would expect for the type of damage for which he was 
claiming. But I also thought, in fairness to Admiral, I should give it one more opportunity to 
carry out the inspection it wanted of Mr Ws car. I did this hoping a resolution to Mr Ws 
complaint could be agreed by the parties. 
That last inspection didnt happen  from what I can see, through no fault of Mr Ws. 
Admirals assessors have already inspected the car twice and given Admiral three reports 
into the damage it sustained. Admiral didnt take advantage of the opportunity I gave it to get 
a final assessment. At this very late stage and given that Ive already issued a provisional 
decision, another inspection would at the very least further delay the resolution of Mr Ws 
complaint. This doesnt, now, seem to be what Admiral wants anyway. But, for the avoidance 
of doubt, I dont think it wouldve been fair and reasonable and it isnt something Id have 
directed.
To put things right for Mr W, Admiral must pay him a cash-in-lieu settlement amount of 
£7,681.44 in total, together with an additional £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of his claim has caused him. To be clear, the settlement amount 
of £7,681.44 is the cash settlement Admiral must make in lieu of carrying out the repairs to 
Mr Ws car itself (as per the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy). For the avoidance of 
doubt, this cash-in-lieu settlement amount does not represent the write-off value of Mr Ws 
car, so Admiral is not entitled to treat Mr Ws car as a write-off or to categorise it as such.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (which now form part of this 
final decision), I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to 
pay Mr W a cash settlement amount in lieu of carrying out repairs itself to Mr Ws car 
totalling £7,681.44. 
I believe Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already paid Mr W a settlement amount 
of £1,330.76. If thats correct, then this (or any other amount Admiral has already paid Mr W) 
can be deducted from the settlement amount of £7,681.44. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited must also pay interest on the outstanding settlement amount it owes Mr W at the 
rate of 8% a year simple from the date of the claim to the date of payment.*
I also direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr W a further £150 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him (in addition to the £300 it
has already paid him). Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at the rate of 8% a year simple.*
*If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman