DRN-3316111
The complaint
Miss C complains Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided her motor insurance 
policy and declined her claim. 
What happened
In July 2020 Miss Cs son took out a Calpe motor insurance policy on her behalf. He was 
added to the policy as a named driver. He used a price comparison website to find quotes. 
The Calpe policy he selected was then arranged by an insurance intermediary. 
In early February 2021 Miss Cs car was damaged whilst parked outside someone elses 
house. The damage is suspected to have been done deliberately by someone known to 
Miss Cs son. She claimed on the policy for repairs. 
After investigating the claim Calpe wrote to Miss C to explain it had been given incorrect 
information when the policy was set up. It said she had failed to disclose her son, the named 
driver, had a pending motoring conviction. Calpe said if it had been given the correct 
information the policy would have been offered for a significantly higher premium. It said as a 
result, in line with the relevant law, it was avoiding her policy (treating it as though it never 
existed) and retaining the full premium for the policy year. 
Miss C complained to Calpe about the avoidance and its decision to require payment of the 
full policy premium. She also raised concern at the insurer recording her car as a category N 
total loss despite not paying her claim. 
In May 2021 Calpe responded to a complaint from Miss C. It said as the non-disclosure of 
her sons pending conviction was deliberate it was entitled to avoid her policy and retain the 
premium.  So it didnt agree to reinstate her policy or pay her claim. It said her vehicle had 
been inspected by a qualified engineer. They had considered it a total loss category N. It 
said amending records for the vehicle would be incorrect, unethical and not in line with the 
relevant code of practise for insurers.
Miss C wasn't satisfied with Calpes response, so she came to this service. Our Investigator 
felt Calpes decision to avoid the policy and retain the premium was fair. She said the total 
loss marker had been fairly applied. She didn't recommend Calpe do anything differently. 
Miss C didnt accept that assessment, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, I havent responded here to every complaint point or piece of 
evidence provided. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the most significant. But I 
would like to reassure Miss C and Calpe that I have considered everything provided for the 
complaint. 
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). 
I think Miss C did make a qualifying misrepresentation. So Calpe fairly avoided her policy. 
So Im not going to make it reinstate the policy or reconsider her claim. I agree the 
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. So, in line with CIDRA, Calpe is entitled to 
charge her the full premium for the year.  
Miss Cs son was acting on her behalf when he made the insurance application. The 
insurance intermediary passed on the information he provided. When taking out the policy 
online, the comparison site asked:
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/ or have you been disqualified from driving 
(including any pending prosecutions)? 
Details of a conviction were given. But the pending prosecution wasnt declared. 
Calpe says that omission was a misrepresentation. Miss Cs son told Calpe, during the claim 
investigation, he had a future court date for a motoring incident. The incident happened 
before the policy was taken out. So Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation. 
But for Calpe to take any action, like avoid the policy, there needs to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly there must have been a failure 
to take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to be considered when deciding if a consumer took 
reasonable care. One is how specific and clear was the questions asked. Another is any 
relevant explanatory material. 
Ive already set out the question asked. Miss Cs said the word pending might not mean the 
same to one person as it does to another. But I think the question itself is clear and specific. 
I think a reasonable consumer would understand it. It specifically says pending prosecutions 
need to be declared. Im satisfied Miss Cs son was aware of his pending prosecution at the 
time the policy was taken out.  
Ive also considered the documentation sent to Miss C after the sale. On the first page of the 
cover letter it asks her to check the details on the enclosed policy documents are correct. On 
page three is a warning under the heading important notice (in red capital letters.). Beneath 
that in capitals it says Failure to answer honestly and reasonably, when asked, may leave 
you with no cover and a claim not paid. The section goes on to warn its important to check 
the information is accurate and complete to the best of your knowledge and belief. 
The statement of insurance has a section for motoring convictions. It says, Please show 
below any unspent convictionspending convictions who you or any other person 
who will drive have incurred in the last five years. Miss Cs sons conviction is shown, but 
the pending prosecution isnt. Im satisfied Calpe wanted to know about the pending 
prosecution. It seems Miss Cs son was aware of his pending prosecution. So considering 
the circumstances, including the question asked and information provided, Im satisfied there 
was a failure to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. For there to be a qualifying misrepresentation Calpe also needs to show that without the 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover - or would have only done so on different 
terms. Its provided underwriting criteria and an explanation to show what would have 
happened if it had been told of the pending prosecution. Im satisfied it would still have 
offered cover  but on different terms. That means there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
As Calpe would have offered cover, CIDRA only allows it to avoid the policy if the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Miss C says her sons misrepresentation was 
a genuine mistake. But on balance I think it probably was deliberate or reckless. 
Ive seen the witness statement he gave to Calpe. It explains the pending prosecution 
relates to an incident about six months before the policy was taken out. That incident seems 
to be linked to a few other significant events. Considering their nature Im satisfied he was 
aware of his pending prosecution at the relevant time. Having considered the question 
asked, I think its most likely he understood he needed to declare it but chose not to. 
So Calpes view that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless seems reasonable. 
And that means its decision to avoid the policy was made in line with CIDRA  and seems 
fair to me. 
I acknowledge Miss C may not have been aware of the pending prosecution. However, her 
son was acting on her behalf when he arranged the policy. So I need to consider his actions 
when providing the information for the application. She feels Calpe could have checked 
databases to ensure the information was accurate. But I wouldnt expect it to have to do that. 
Its reasonable of Calpe to rely on the information its provided by policyholders or their 
representatives. 
Miss Cs complained about Calpe requiring the policy premium to be paid in full. When a 
misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless CIDRA allows insurers to retain the full policy 
premium  even when the policy is avoided, a claim is declined and there would otherwise 
be time left on cover. Ive considered the circumstances of this complaint, but I cant say 
Calpes decision to require Miss C to pay the full premium is unfair. 
Miss C say she cant understand why her car has been registered as a category N total loss 
- when Calpe avoided the policy and declined the claim. Looking at the claim records I can 
see the total loss decision was made about a week before the avoidance. Calpe, having 
learned of the pending prosecution continued to process the claim whilst the implications of 
the new information were considered. That seems fair and reasonable to me.  
According to Miss C the repair costs Calpe used to reach its total loss decision were 
exaggerated  totalling about £11,500 excluding VAT.  Shes provided an estimate for 
around £7,800. In response to Miss Cs estimate Calpes engineer said the estimate doesnt 
detail all the damage. 
I can see certain items, listed in Calpes engineers estimate, arent clearly listed in Miss Cs. 
These include cosmetic work to the roof and boot. She says there was no visible damage to 
those areas.  Miss Cs estimate isnt detailed. I cant know what work is included. But from 
photos of the car I can see damage to both the roof and the boot. Im not persuaded by what 
Miss Cs provided that Calpes estimate is exaggerated or includes unnecessary repairs. So 
I cant say it used unfair or unreasonable repair costs when deciding on the Category N total 
loss.  
Calpe didnt agree to remove the Category N marker after it decided to refuse the claim. It 
says removing it wouldnt be accurate or ethical. It says its acted in line with regulatory 
requirements by registering a total loss. Having considered the relevant code of practice and Calpes explanation I cant say its decision not to amend the record is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Miss C suffers from health conditions. I understand this experience has unfortunately caused 
her distress. I accept its been unpleasant for her. However, I cant say thats been a result of 
any mistakes on unfair treatment on Calpes part. So Im not going to require it reinstate her 
policy, pay her claim or do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman