DRN-3483382
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2015, Mrs G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs G decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Gs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs G to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs G or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it still offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
at the sales meeting on 26 June 2015, the salesperson had not shown Mrs G the 
quotation document on which Shawbrook and the adjudicator had relied  which is 
dated 10 July 2015  and Mrs G had never read it;
instead, the salesperson had shown her a quote dated 26 June 2015, which is the 
same date as when she signed the loan agreement;
the salesperson had then emailed this quote to Mrs G the next day, 27 June;
the June quote had shown that the system would pay for itself, contrary to what the 
July quote shows;
Mrs G had not had a reason to suspect that the July quote would be so different;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law, and 
therefore sending Mrs G the second quote after the first was not enough.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision, dated 19 April 2022, which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs G could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement, dated 26 June 2015, and two different versions of the 
solar quote. One quote (titled System Performance and Returns) is dated 26 June 2015  
the same date as the loan agreement  and the other is dated 10 July (titled Your Personal 
Solar Quotation). Ive considered these three documents in detail and whether they support 
the alleged representations made by P.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. In summary, the June 
quote suggests that the system would be self-funding, and the July quote does not. (I will 
return to the relevant differences in more detail later.)
The first question for me to decide is which one induced Mrs G to enter into her contract 
with P?
Which quote did Mrs G rely on?
As I have said, the June quote is dated 26 June, the same date as the loan agreement. 
I have seen an email from P to Mrs G, dated 27 June, with the subject heading Solar 
Quottaion (sic). The email was sent by the salesperson named on the June quote, and it says: Good afternoon [Mrs G], It was very good to meet you. Please find attached our 
quotation. So this is clear evidence that the sales meeting had already taken place, and that 
the quote dated 26 June was emailed to Mrs G by P the next day.
Because I had only received this evidence from the CMC and not from Shawbrook, I showed 
the email and the June quote to Shawbrook and asked it to ask P to verify if the quote was 
authentic  and for any comments Shawbrook might have.1 Shawbrook did not reply. So 
I have no reason to doubt the authenticity of this evidence. And I accept that Mrs G was 
shown this quote at the meeting, that she received a copy of it the next day for her to read in 
her own time, and that she relied on it when deciding to buy the system.
As I shall set out below, the June quote shows that the system would be self-funding.
A second quote, dated 10 July, was subsequently generated. The July quote shows that the 
system would not be self-funding. (This is the quote on which our adjudicator relied when 
she gave her opinion.) That quote has been signed by Mrs G on page 23, so I infer that she 
did receive it. But I have been shown no evidence to demonstrate that she was alerted to the 
fact that it contained significantly different estimates about the systems likely performance 
and financial returns to the corresponding information given in the original quote. And in 
particular, this quote has not been signed on page 11, immediately below the key 
information (I shall return to this later). So that reinforces my view that this new information 
was not brought to Mrs Gs attention.
The differences between the two quotes  which are significant  and the reason why a 
second quote was generated, have not been explained.
For all of these reasons, I am satisfied that the 26 June quote formed a central part of the 
sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact which induced Mrs G to enter into her contract with P   and that she did 
not rely on the 10 July quote or realise that it was substantially different to the quote she had 
already seen.
FIT payments
Mrs G has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the June quote and considered whether 
this supports what Mrs G has said, and then compared it with the July quote.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs G could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs G could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £465.25.
1 That was on 22 March 2022. The adjudicator sent Shawbrook the same evidence again on 28 April.
The June quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs G could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £420.50 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mrs G, the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £1,046.74. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mrs G entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £90.66. (This is slightly incorrect; 
the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £90.69, but the difference  3p  is far 
too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £90.66, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives 
a positive figure for every year of the loan, except in the first year, where it shows a small 
shortfall of only £3.44 a month (on average).
So I think the June quote clearly sets out the income Mrs G could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would be sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments completely from the second year, and would almost be enough 
cover the repayments during the first year as well. Therefore, Im satisfied that she was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the financial returns from the panels 
(save for the small shortfall in year 1).
The July quote shows a very different version of that graph, on page 11. This graph states 
that the monthly repayments will be £89.22, and shows much lower financial returns. Like 
the table above, it then gives an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. But this table gives a negative figure 
for the first nine years of the loan, meaning that the system would not make enough money 
to cover the loan payments in those nine years.
Immediately below the graph is a space for the consumers signature, but this is blank. So, 
as I have explained already, I am currently not satisfied that this new and significantly 
different information was brought to Mrs Gs attention.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs G that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the tables above which set out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the tables are clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the slight 
discrepancies in the monthly payments when compared with the credit agreement).
Im of the view that the June quote makes it clear that the system would be self-funding 
almost from the start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the 
expected income and monthly loan repayments in the first year, but only a small one.
The System Performance and Returns page of the June quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance over 20 years. This shows that it would take 7 years for the overall 
benefits that Mrs G could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system, £8,350.
The total repayable under the loan agreement was £16,324.20. The above table shows that 
during year 12 the overall benefits that Mrs G could expect to receive would meet that 
amount.
So Im satisfied that P told Mrs G in the June quote that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 7 years, and for the loan in about 12 years, as supported by the table above.
The corresponding table in the July quote shows these timescales to be 11 years and 
17 years, respectively.
So in summary, the June quote shows that the returns from the system would generally 
cover the monthly loan repayments, and would cover the entire cost of the loan before the 
end of the 15-year loan term. And the July quote shows quite the opposite.
Im currently satisfied that Mrs G relied on the June quote, and was reasonably entitled to. 
And that her attention was not brought to the very different July quote, and that it was 
therefore reasonable of her not to compare it with the June quote, not having a reason to 
suspect that they would differ, and differ by so much.
So I think that means that Mrs G was misled by what she was told in June, both in writing in 
the June quote and verbally by the salesman, and that she was thereby induced to enter into 
a contract which she would not have entered into had she realised the true position. And that 
this was a misrepresentation by P, for which Shawbrook is liable under section 75.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs G. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2,167 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Gs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,780 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
presently satisfied that P did make untrue statements of fact that induced Mrs G to enter into 
the contract for the system. (I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.)
(Shawbrook is familiar with how redress for misrepresentation of solar panels should be 
calculated, so I wont set that out here. I will deal with that in my final decision, if need be.)
My provisional decision is that I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. Subject to any 
further representations I receive from the parties by [17 May 2022], I intend to order 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things right in accordance with our usual approach in these 
cases.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional findings, so there is no reason for me to depart 
from them, and I confirm them here.
Putting things right
It only remains for me to set out what Shawbrook needs to do next.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Gs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs G from the solar 
panels over the 15 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that  based on the 
figures in the quote dated 26 June 2015, which has been provided to Shawbrook  and she 
keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs G is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs G in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 15 year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Gs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs G have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs G and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs G and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs G accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept  by marking it with option a, b, c, or d.
If Mrs G has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay her the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 
8% a year.
If Mrs G has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs G paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs G receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs G paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs G receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs G first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused, in addition to the 
£200 it has already offered her, which I also direct it to pay, making a total payment of £300 
for her inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022. The CMC may respond on her behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman