DRN-3875593
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited
(MBFS) have raised for damage to the vehicle at the end of the hire purchase agreement
with them in July 2021. 
What happened
Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in June 2018 for a car. It was a four
year agreement, but Mr T decided to end it early after a little over three years. He arranged
this in July 2021 and MBFS sent their agents to collect the car on 26 July 2021. It was
delivered to an inspection site on 27 July 2021 and inspected for damages. There were
twelve items highlighted as being outside of fair wear and tear, and MBFS raised an invoice
for charges totalling £1,511.11. 
Mr T complained about this, and in their final response letter (FRL) dated 21 December
2021, MBFS didnt uphold his complaint. They said all twelve items were fairly charged but
did offer to reduce the total bill by £250 as a gesture of goodwill.
These chargeable items were as follows:
- Wheel left hand front spoke damaged requires an alloy refurb £110.00
- Wheel left hand rear spoke damaged requires an alloy refurb £110.00
- Wheel right hand rear spoke damaged requires an alloy refurb £110.00
- Wheel right hand front rim damaged metal missing requires a replacement £138.50
- Tyre left hand front gouge requires a replacement £102.13
- Tyre left hand rear gouge requires a replacement £102.13
- Bonnet scratched through the topcoat requires a replacement £84.00
- Bumper front scratched through the topcoat requires a refinish £210.00
- Door shut inner left hand front dented with paint damage requires a repair and
  refinish £130.00
- Bumper rear scratched through the topcoat requires a refinish £210.00
- Bumper moulding left hand rear broken requires a replacement £11.35
- Door right hand front scratched through the topcoat requires a replacement £193.00
Total charge £1,511.11.
Unhappy with this Mr T brought his complaint to our service. He told us that the car wasnt
damaged when it was returned to MBFS, and met the vehicle return standards. He proposed
that the damage must have occurred in the time between the car being collected from his
address and being delivered to the inspection site.
The investigator here didnt uphold his complaint. They felt that as the vehicle was collected
around 7pm on the 26 July 2021 and delivered to the inspection site at around 8am on the
following morning, it was unlikely the car had suffered any damage during this time. They
also said that the car had only completed another 67 miles between collection and delivery,
and this appeared to correspond exactly with the mileage between the two locations, so they
had no concerns about this.
When the investigator went through the damages charged for and assessed them, they
concluded that the twelve items charged for by MBFS were all fairly charged, but they also
reviewed some other items mistakenly, which hadnt been charged for by MBFS. This has
caused some confusion here, so I intend to highlight only the items that were deemed
outside of fair wear and tear, and charged for, when I review these below.
Mr T didnt agree with this assessment and felt that there was no evidence to show the
damage was not caused within the time the car was out of his possession and before it was
delivered for the inspection, so he asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2022. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
Mr T signed a hire purchase agreement in June 2018. The terms of the agreement set out
that the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle.
Its clear from the agreement that Mr T was responsible for returning the car in good
condition. Ive considered whether the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.
The first thing Ive considered is Mr Ts argument, that the damage could have occurred after
the car was collected, but before it arrived at the inspection centre. The inspection report
shows that the car was collected on the 26 July 2021 and delivered on the 27 July 2021.
This in itself is not unusual, and the mileage has increased by 60-70 miles, which is around
the distance between the collection address and the inspection centre.
Ive gone on to consider the type of damage caused and the likelihood of it occurring during
this time period. Mr T hasnt suggested that some of the damage was charged fairly, whilst
other parts are unfair and were caused after they had collected the car. He told us when
asking for an Ombudsman to review the case and issue a final decision that there is:
zero evidence to show that the damage was not done within the time that the vehicle was
held with the driver at his house. Damage can be done in the matter of moments and again
they show nothing to prove this otherwise.
I think that this statement doesnt align with the evidence MBFS have provided about the
damage. If there were one or two items of damage being queried, I might consider this
argument, but there are twelve separate items of damage. They are on both sides of the car
as well as front and back, and one of the items damaged is actually inside the left hand front
door shut area and another is on the inside of one of the doors.
The car had travelled 22,234 miles before it was collected from Mr Ts address. It then
travelled a further 67 miles before being inspected. The initial inspection by the collection
agent doesnt include any sections to discuss scratches/dents/issues with the wheels. It
does include a box about the tyres, but Im satisfied this is about ensuring they are legal from
a tread perspective and would not be expected to identify gouges or similar.Neither party can account for exactly what damage was evident at the point of collection,
compared to the point of inspection 67 miles later. That means it falls upon me to decide, on
the balance of probability, what is most likely to have happened. I think its very unlikely that
twelve items of damage would have occurred to the car in a few hours overnight, outside the
collection agents house. Some of the damage, as I will discuss below, is fairly significant,
such as the alloy wheel damage.
I think its far more likely that this damage occurred during the previous 3 years and 22,234
miles travelled by Mr T. Im not persuaded by the argument that the damage could have
occurred after the car was collected.
Ill go on now to look at the items of damage charged for. In doing this, I will consider the
MBFS vehicle return standards (VRS), supplied to Mr T with his agreement and also
available online. Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are
industry standard guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association
(BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a vehicle.
So, I have also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of
the car.
Damage to all four wheels  I will look at the damage together. The BVRLA standards say
any damage to the wheel spokes, fascia, or hub is not acceptable. The VRS say that
damage to wheels that consists of scuffs, chips or scratches exceeding 25mm is outside of
fair wear and tear.
In examining the photos, the left hand front wheel, and left hand rear wheel are extensively
damaged; most of the alloy wheel fascia has damage, so well outside of fair wear and tear.
For the right hand rear wheel, the damage is in several places and clearly totals well over
25mm, and for the right hand front wheel there is also significant damage, with gouges of
metal out of the rim. All of these charges are fair, as the wheels are extensively damaged, 
well outside of what would be considered fair wear and tear.
Damage to left hand front and left hand rear tyres. Both the VRS and BVRLA standards
say that any damage to the tyre sidewalls is outside of fair wear and tear. The photos clearly
evidence gouges in both of these tyres, so I am satisfied that these both fall outside of fair
wear and tear.
Bonnet scratch. The VRS says that any scratching of paintwork that has penetrated to the
base coat and cannot be polished out is outside of fair wear and tear. In the BVRLA
guidelines it talks about any scratches under 25mm being acceptable unless the primer/bare
metal is showing. Ive reviewed the photo of this scratch and am satisfied that it penetrates
to the base coat, and is over 25mm long, so this is outside of fair wear and tear.
Front bumper scratch. The same VRS and BVRLA standards apply here as described
above for the bonnet, with the addition that in the BVRLA standards it specifies that a
maximum number of four scratches on one panel are acceptable. In looking at the picture
provided, there appear to be at least ten scratches evident on the bumper, and many of
these appear to be through to the base coat, certainly more than four. This is outside of fair
wear and tear.
Door shut inner left hand front. MBFS have said this area is dented, but its evident that
its also scratched. For dents, the VRS says minor dents under 13mm are acceptable, this
increases to 15mm in the BVRLA standards. For scratches, the same applies as above
when discussing the bonnet and bumper scratches, so under 25mm is fair wear and tear if
the topcoat is not penetrated. In this instance, the dent is evident but difficult to measure.
However, there are several scratches including two large scratches, well over 25mm,through the topcoat. This is outside of fair wear and tear.
Rear Bumper and Bumper Moulding. This is scuffed and scratched, and the moulding also
appears damaged. VRS say that scuffs of 50mm or less are acceptable, and BVRLA refer to
the 25mm scratch rules already discussed above. The photo provided shows numerous
scuffs and scratches on this panel, well outside of fair wear and tear. Similarly, the bumper
moulding is holed and damaged, well outside of fair wear and tear.
Right Hand front door. The door of the car has suffered scratching to its edge. As above,
the VRS say any scratch which penetrates to the base coat is outside of fair wear and tear,
and the BVRLA standards say 25mm or less is fair provided it doesnt go through the
topcoat. There are several scratches to the inside edge of the door, and the largest of these
appear to well outside of 25mm, and go through the topcoat, so I am satisfied this is outside
of fair wear and tear.
Overall, I am satisfied that all twelve items fall outside of the VRS fair wear and tear
guidelines provided to Mr T when he took out the agreement. Im also satisfied that they fall
outside of industry guidelines for fair wear and tear, provided by BVRLA. As such, I wont be
asking the business to do anything further.
The total charges for these items are £1,511.11. MBFS offered Mr T a £250 reduction to his
total bill as a goodwill gesture when he complained in December 2021, so he may want to
revisit this with MBFS again now to see if this offer is still available.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS accepted the findings of my provisional decision. Mr T did not respond by the 
deadline with any comments about my provisional decision.
As such, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and the reasons for them. 
For the reason laid out in my provisional decision and repeated above, I am not upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman