DRN-4006453
The complaint
Miss B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds proposed settlement of a claim she made 
on a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B holds home emergency insurance with Aviva. When her boiler broke down, she 
made a claim on the policy.
Avivas engineer concluded that repairs to the boiler werent economical, and so Miss B 
would need a new boiler. The terms and conditions of the policy covered the new boiler but 
said Miss B would need to cover the installation costs.
Miss B complained to Aviva. She said the installation costs being quoted were excessive 
and significantly more than shed been quoted privately.
When Aviva rejected her complaint, Miss B referred it to our service. Aviva said that, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it would pay Miss B the cash equivalent of what it would pay for the 
boiler, leaving her to purchase and install this privately.
Our investigator didnt think this was a fair outcome. It was noted that, because of the 
discounts available to Aviva, the amount Aviva was offering wouldnt enable Miss B to 
purchase the boiler. She thought that Aviva should pay the cost Miss B would pay for the 
boiler. Aviva didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some relevant points here arent disputed. The first is that Miss Bs boiler needed replacing, 
as it wasnt economical to repair the broken boiler. Avivas accepted the claim is covered. 
The relevant condition of the policy says:
If it is 7 years old or older we will source and replace your boiler through our approved 
installer and you will be required to pay the installation cost. A survey will be completed and 
an individual quotation will be provided.
It also isnt disputed that Miss Bs boiler was more than seven years old, and that as a result 
shes liable for the installation costs of the new boiler. 
The issue I need to address is whether either of Avivas offers to settle the claim are fair. Its 
said, in effect, that Miss B can choose between using its approved installer (and paying the 
installation costs), or paying her the cash equivalent of what it would pay for the boiler, 
allowing her to purchase the boiler and pay for installation herself.
Weve asked Aviva whether it would supply the boiler to Miss B, allowing her to arrange and 
pay for the installation. Aviva declined to consider doing so.
Avivas position is that the terms and conditions are clear in saying that the only option 
provided by the policy is for its approved installer to be used, and for their costs to be met by 
Miss B. It says that in offering to pay Miss B the cost of the boiler it would incur its acting 
fairly and beyond the limits of cover. 
I dont dispute that the policy condition is clear about the installation costs and use of Avivas 
approved installer. However, I need to consider whether a rigid application of the condition is 
fair in the circumstances. I dont think it is.
The intention of the policy condition is clear, in my opinion. Aviva wont be liable for 
installation costs where the boiler being replaced is more than seven years old. Thats a 
commercial decision of Aviva and not a point of complaint and I use this as my starting point.
The quote for Avivas approved installer is significantly more than Miss B has been quoted, 
and no reasonable explanation has been given for why Avivas approved installers quote is 
so much higher than what Miss Bs been provided.
So its apparent that if Miss B were to use Avivas approved installer, shed be paying much 
more than if she used the one she found. This would be for the installation of the same 
boiler. 
The other option Avivas offered is for Miss B to purchase and install the boiler, and it will 
pay her the amount it would have cost Aviva to purchase the same boiler. Its accepted that 
the amount Aviva would pay for the boiler is more than £500 less than the amount Miss B 
would pay for the same boiler. Aviva has the advantage of discounts which arent available 
to Miss B. 
Choosing either of the above options would lead to Miss B paying more to replace the boiler 
than she should. Im satisfied that the intention of the cover is for Aviva to cover the cost of 
the replacement boiler, with Miss B being responsible for the installation costs. Either she 
accepts Avivas approved installer, and pays a much higher amount for the installation with 
Aviva supplying the boiler, or she purchases the boiler, with Aviva effectively contributing a 
portion of the cost, and pays for the installation. I dont think either option treats Miss B fairly. 
The first option leads her to paying a higher amount for installation, while the second option 
doesnt actually result in Aviva covering the cost of the boiler, which it should do.
The alternative option would have been for Aviva to supply the boiler to Miss B and allow her 
to arrange for installation. By doing so it would be able to limit the cost of the boiler to its 
usual cost, while leaving Miss B free to arrange installation at her own cost. Avivas said it 
wont do that. 
As Aviva has declined to supply the boiler to Miss B without installation, I think that to put 
things right Aviva should pay Miss B the amount shed pay for the replacement boiler, not 
what it would cost Aviva to supply it. By doing so, Aviva is discharging its obligation to cover 
the replacement boiler cost, while leaving Miss B liable for the installation costs.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Aviva Insurance 
Limited must pay Miss B the standard cost of the replacement boiler of the same make and 
model that it originally intended to supply.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman