DRN-4120112
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) failed to make clear the 
terms of a promotion causing her to incur interest charges she wasnt expecting. 
What happened
Mrs S had a credit card account with Creation. She says she was checking her 
February 2022 statement when a promotion popped up on her screen to say Creation was 
offering 0% on all purchases made between 1 February and 30 April 2022. She understood 
this to mean that any purchases she made between those dates would continue to be 
subject to the 0% rate after the promotion ended. So, she decided to use her Creation credit 
card to buy a number of items. In June 2022 she noticed that interest had been charged on 
her purchases. When she called Creation, it credited the interest back to her account. But 
her July and August statements showed more interest had been charged to her account. So, 
she complained.
Creation didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said the terms and conditions of the promotion 
said the offer only applied between 1 February and 30 April 2022 and no interest would 
accrue between those two dates. Interest would then start to accrue on those purchases 
from 1 May 2022. And if a purchase was made on 30 April 2022, interest would be free for 
only one day. Creation also noted that Mrs Ss May 2022 statement showed that the 
promotional purchase rate on her account would end with effect from her next statement. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with this response so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought Mrs S had misunderstood the 
offer and Creation had made it clear that any purchases made in the promotion period would 
be subject to the standard rate of interest after the promotion came to an end. They said 
Mrs Ss May 2022 statement reminded her that the promotional offer would be ending. And 
they noted that Creation had refunded the interest charged in June 2022 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to 
an Ombudsman for a decision. She said she didnt receive any letters from Creation and all 
her communication had been online. She said there was no indication or warning in the 
pop-up message that any purchases she made in the promotion period would be subject to 
the standard rate of interest when it came to an end. And nothing in the pop-up that would 
have made her aware of the terms and conditions that applied to the offer. She also said 
shed interpreted the message in the May 2022 statement as meaning that any new 
purchases would be subject to the standard rate of interest. And when Creation had 
refunded some of the interest, that had reinforced her thinking that the purchases shed 
made were still subject to 0% interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs S. But for the reasons I provide below I dont think Creation has done anything wrong.
Mrs S says there was nothing in the pop-up message she read that indicated that any 
purchases she made in the promotion period would be subject to the standard rate of 
interest when the promotion period ended. But Creation has said that all the promotional 
literature it provided, whether that was by letter or email, on its website or in a pop-up 
message, included the terms and conditions, or a link to them. And Ive seen evidence of 
that. 
Creation has shown me the pop-up message Mrs S would have seen. It has an asterisk next 
to the statement that said 0% on purchases* and then a note below to say that *Terms 
and Conditions apply. The message provided a link to a page with the terms and conditions 
on it. While the message itself doesnt provide the terms and conditions, Im satisfied there 
was enough information in the message to indicate that terms and conditions did apply to the 
promotion  and further information could be found on a separate webpage. So, on balance, 
I think Creation did enough to make it clear to its customers that the promotion was subject 
to its terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions include the following statements: 
For Standard Purchases made between 01 February 2022 and 30 April 2022 no interest will 
accrue between those two dates. Interest will begin to accrue on those purchases from 01 
May 2022. If a purchase is made on 30 April 2022, interest would be free for only one day. 
After this period, the interest rate for Standard Purchases (variable) applicable to the 
account will be charged on any remaining balance of any purchase.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that these terms and conditions made it clear that any 
purchases made in the promotion period would be subject to the standard rate of interest 
after that promotional period ended.
Creation said that Mrs Ss May 2022 statement also notified her that the promotional 
purchase rate on her account would end from the date of her next statement. Mrs S said she 
simply thought this meant that the promotional period would be ending, not that her 
purchases made in that period would be subject to the standard interest rate. And I can see 
why she thought that as the statement doesnt specify what purchases are affected. But I 
dont think the statement was misleading as it was accurate when read in conjunction with 
the terms and conditions of the promotion. And, as Ive said, Im satisfied Creations 
literature did refer to the terms and conditions.
Creation refunded a small amount of interest to Mrs S in June 2022. Its not clear whether 
that was paid in error or whether it was paid as a gesture of goodwill, as Creation told this 
service. But either way, Mrs S has benefited from that payment and, as I havent found that 
Creation has done anything wrong, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman