DRN-4352133
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) in relation to an appointment he scheduled for his boiler to be serviced. 
What happened
Mr K took out a HomeCare policy with British Gas in January 2023. He booked an annual 
service for his boiler to take place on the afternoon of 3 May 2023. On the day of the service, 
Mr K says he received an SMS message on his mobile around midday to advise the 
engineer was on his way. He then received a further message shortly afterwards to say that 
the engineer had been called to an urgent job. Then, after 3pm, Mr K says he received a 
further SMS message to advise the engineer was on his way and should be there soon. 
However, he believes the engineer didnt arrive. 
Mr K complained to British Gas saying that the engineer failed to attend the property at the 
agreed time. British Gas complaints department responded on 23 May 2023, to say the 
engineer had come to the property but no one had answered the door when hed knocked, 
so he concluded no one was at home and left the property. Mr K said the engineer should 
have phoned his mobile number before he left the property. He asked British Gas to provide 
him with evidence that the engineer had actually come to his property, including: a screen 
shot of the front of the property the engineer attended; a screen shot of the attempted call 
being made to his mobile number; and GPS data showing the vehicle in his road.
British Gas didnt provide that information but offered £30 compensation. They said that the 
engineer arrived at 3:40pm and knocked on the door but didnt get an answer. The engineer 
said he remembered seeing a removal van parked two doors down from Mr Ks house. 
British Gas explained that their engineers dont take photographs of properties where no 
access is gained.
Unhappy with British Gas explanation and the offer of compensation, Mr K brought his 
complaint to this service. He explained that while he hadnt been financially affected, he felt it 
was unacceptable for the engineer to not attend his property and imply it was his fault. Mr K 
said British Gas explanations were borderline insulting. Mr K said that British Gas ought to 
pay him £200 compensation and send him a written letter of apology.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. He said that the engineer likely did attend the property on 3 May 2023, but as the 
boiler service wasnt completed until 25 May 2023, Mr K did suffer some inconvenience. 
However, he thought that British Gas offer of £30 compensation was sufficient to make up 
for that. Our investigator also concluded that British Gas werent in breach of their 
agreement as a result of the boiler service not being completed at the agreed time. He also 
explained that we wouldnt expect photographic evidence to be provided to show that an 
engineer had attended a property.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint. He repeated his view that it was reasonable to ask for GPS data or other 
evidence to show the engineer assigned to his appointment actually attended his property. 
He also thinks it unreasonable for an engineer not to phone a person to ascertain their 
location. He referred to the term in the policy document that permits British Gas to charge a 
no-show fee and highlighted that it hadnt been charged, meaning they didnt think he wasnt 
at home. Ive considered these additional points in coming to my decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why.
The job notes from the engineer show that he visited the property on 3 May 2023 and 
includes a comment that there was no answer at 3:40pm. The job notes also show another 
engineer attended the property on 25 May 2023 and completed the boiler service.
On the one hand, Mr K says British Gas engineer didnt attend his property as it has no 
evidence to show otherwise. On the other hand, British Gas have provided the job sheet 
completed by the engineer that evidences he did attend the property at 3:40pm. Where the 
information is contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based on what I think more 
likely than not happened.
Having weighed everything up, including the SMS message sent shortly after 3pm, and the 
job notes provided by British Gas, I think it more likely than not, that the engineer did attend 
Mr Ks property at the agreed time. I appreciate that it would have been frustrating for Mr K 
to have to arrange a further appointment for the boiler to be serviced, but I think the short 
delay that followed, and the inconvenience he was caused, was fairly compensated for by 
British Gas offer of £30.
When sending their file to this service, British Gas explained that Mr K said they should be 
able to provide photographic evidence, evidence that the engineer tried calling him and a 
GPS signal that his van was at his street. However, British Gas doesnt require this 
information to be collected by its engineers so didnt have the information to provide to Mr K.
While I can appreciate why this information might be helpful in persuading Mr K that the 
engineer did keep the appointment, British Gas doesnt agree to provide such information in 
the policy terms and conditions. 
On page 28 of the policy terms under the heading, Visiting You and sub-heading Annual 
service it says: If.you are not at the property when our engineer visits, we wont try again 
and wont refund the cost of the missed annual service. Later it goes on to say: .we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
Mr K had been notified that the engineer was on his way to the property within half an hour 
of when the engineer says he arrived. I have no reason to question the evidence provided by 
British Gas which shows the engineer attended the property at 3:40pm. British Gas then sent 
a further engineer to the property three weeks later and the boiler service was completed. 
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that British Gas acted in line with the policy 
terms and fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman