DRN-2653102
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account called a Select account. He paid a monthly fee for the account and received 
several potential benefits in return. He thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he 
paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mr W has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us its record of his 
account history, which is not in dispute, which shows that:
Mr W opened one of Lloyds fee-free accounts well over 25 years ago, possibly 
as early as 1987,
in July 2002, Lloyds sold him the Select account, which replaced his fee-free 
account and for which it charged him the monthly fee,
Mr W kept the Select account until March 2020, when he switched back to a fee-
free account.
I previously sent Mr W and Lloyds a provisional decision on this complaint. In that provisional 
decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the case and I explained that I 
thought Lloyds had mis-sold the Select account to Mr W. I invited both parties to send me 
any further comments they wished to make before I reached a final decision.
The period of time that I allowed for further comments has now passed. Both Lloyds and 
Mr W have told us that they accept the findings in my provisional decision and have 
nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. As there is 
nothing new for me to consider since I sent my provisional decision, I have reached the 
same conclusion for the same reasons. I am upholding Mr Ws complaint. I have explained 
my decision below. As there is nothing new for me to say, much of what follows is virtually 
identical to what I said in my provisional decision. 
Mr W and Lloyds have both said that that Lloyds sold the Select account to Mr W during a 
meeting or discussion at one of its branches and advised him to buy it. I have no reason to 
doubt this shared view and I have taken it to be correct.
In an advised sale like this, I would have expected Lloyds to check if Mr W needed the 
benefits which the Select account could provide before giving its advice, tell him about 
the accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly, and give him a clear choice to keep 
his fee-free account or buy the Select account.
Obviously, I wasnt present during the meeting in 2002, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyds 
said, or didnt say, to Mr W, or how well it checked his circumstance before advising him 
to buy the Select account. So, I have looked at the evidence that I do have, including Mr 
Ws circumstances at the time, to see if its likely that Lloyds treated him fairly.
In July 2002, the Select account provided a mx of non-banking and banking benefits. The 
main non-banking benefit was use of a car breakdown service, but the account also 
provided other features such as use of a legal helpline and extended warranties on some 
products bought with Lloyds banking services.
Mr W has told us that in 2002 he had a company car and so he had no need for a car 
breakdown service. Lloyds has disagreed. It has said that Mr W may have still wanted 
such a service despite having a company car. I accept this is possible, but it seems very 
unlikely. And I dont think Mr W had a particular need for the legal helpline or any of the 
other non-banking benefits the Select account provided. I dont think that it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to advise Mr W to buy the Select account for its non-banking 
benefits.
The main banking benefits of the Select account concerned interest rates for loans, 
overdrafts and savings, where Lloyds provided cheaper borrowing rates and higher rates 
on savings to customers with Select accounts than it usually offered to customers with fee-
free accounts.
During our investigation into this case, both parties have discussed Mr Ws potential need 
for a loan or overdraft in 2002 at some length. When Lloyds replied directly to Mr Ws 
complaint, it mentioned that he had benefitted from (the) preferential loan rate that came 
with the Select account. However, in its internal investigation documents it noted that Mr W:
did not apply for a loan that we can see until over one year after the upgrade  
this suggests the account was not taken to take a loan.
And that:
The first evidence we can see of an overdraft being on the account was in 2004, 
over two years after the account was upgraded  this suggests the account was not 
taken directly for an overdraft facility
Mr W has also made some slightly contradictory comments about loans and overdrafts. 
Hes said that during the discussion, Lloyds told him he couldnt have a loan or overdraft 
with his fee-free account, only if he bought the Select account. This suggests that he may 
have had some interest in a loan or overdraft, despite not taking either until well over a 
year later. 
However, if Lloyds did make these comments to Mr W, it would have been misleading, as 
Lloyds (and other banks) did provide both loans and overdrafts to customers with fee-free 
accounts. Taking all these factors into account, it seems extremely unlikely that Mr W 
wanted or needed an overdraft or loan at the time Lloyds sold him the Select account. So, I 
dont think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Select account to Mr W for the 
preferential interest rates it offered on loans or overdrafts. Nor have I seen anything to show that Mr W had a sufficiently strong need for the higher savings rate that the Select 
account offered to justify Lloyds advice.
In fairness to Lloyds, Ive also considered if the full range of benefits the Select 
account could provide gave it grounds for its advice. But I dont think the range was of 
sufficient relevance to Mr Ws circumstances for this to be the case.
So, it seems to me that Mr W did not need or want the benefits that the Select account 
provided. I dont think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend it to him. Similarly, I 
doubt that Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the Select clearly and fairly to Mr W, 
as had it done so, then in his circumstances, I see no reason why he would have chosen to 
buy it. This brings me to the question of choice, which has been the crux Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has told us that during the meeting Lloyds said that it was withdrawing fee-free 
accounts and he had to buy the Select account. He has also mentioned that he felt 
forced to buy the Select account.
Once again, I cannot tell exactly what Lloyds said to Mr W. However, in 2002 it wasnt 
withdrawing fee-free accounts from its customers; along with other banks it has continued 
to provide them. It has pointed out that Mr W had another fee-free account which he kept 
for several years and so must have known fee-free accounts still existed. However, the 
other account seems to have been in joint names (I dont know with whom) and after Lloyds 
sold the Select account to Mr W it was only used occasionally, so I dont find Lloyds 
position totally convincing. And as explained above, I havent seen any reason why Mr W 
would have wanted the Select account in 2002. So, I doubt that Lloyds gave him a clear 
and fair choice.
So, in summary, I think that Lloyds gave Mr W unreasonable advice to buy the Select 
account, failed to give him clear and fair information about its costs and benefits, and 
probably denied him a fair and clear choice. I therefore think that Lloyds mis-sold the 
Select account to Mr W. It follows that Lloyds should put things right by paying W 
appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr W, Lloyds should put him into the financial position he would 
have been in if it hadnt sold him the Select account.
It should therefore:
refund Mr W all the fees he paid for the Select account,
add simple interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date Mr W paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
If Lloyds can show that Mr W gained financially from any of the banking services that came 
with the Select account (for example, he may have saved some money when he overdrew 
his account), then it may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation worked out as 
above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation clearly and simply for Mr 
W, so he can follow what it has done.My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold Select account to him. Lloyds should now pay Mr W the compensation I have 
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman