DRN-4257821
The complaint
Miss B complains about financial advice given by Profile Financial Solutions Limited 
(Profile) to transfer her pension.
What happened
Miss B said that she was not given suitable advice by Profile to switch her pension to a new 
provider and had lost out.
Profile said it had provided appropriate advice on the switch, it did assess her personal and 
financial circumstances and her investment experience and attitude to risk. It monitored her 
pension and if appropriate recommended changes to investments. It had done this in 2022. 
It did not uphold the complaint.
The investigator said that the advice to switch suggested a similar attitude to risk in the new 
scheme investment and the charges were 0.73% including an ongoing adviser fee compared 
to 0.875 with the existing scheme so the new scheme had lower charges. The initial advice 
was 1.75% plus a fixed fee of £450. There was no comparison of the impact of the initial 
charge on growth but in a call Profile said it would be recouped over 6 or 7 months if growth 
in the new fund was a good as it had been in the last five years. Miss B had at least 10 years 
to recoup the charges as she was 45. Part of the reason for the switch was the range of 
funds as the current pension only offered one fund. Ongoing adviser charges were lower 
than with the old provider. Profile provided logs to show it attempted to provide these 
ongoing services and advised a change of fund in 2022. Drawdown was given as a reason 
but as she was only 45 there was no need and the old pension also confirmed the fund could 
have been moved to another policy when drawdown was needed. Given her circumstances 
at the time the investigator thought the advice was appropriate. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said that she was not made aware that her pension would drop as 
much as it had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B is represented but for ease I have simply referred to Miss B even though the 
representations may have been made on her behalf by her representative.
Miss B received advice to switch her pension in around 2017 into a personal pension. The 
Financial Regulator set out situations where such transfers would not be suitable. This 
included several situations where for example the new pension was more expensive. There 
was a loss of benefits on transfer, the new scheme did not match their attitude to risk or the 
new scheme had ongoing investment reviews and this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
However the regulator also said it was important to consider the circumstances at the time. 
Miss B was single, with children and a low income with very little financial capacity for loss. 
She was 46 at the time the advice was given with an annual income of between £10,000 and 
£40,000. The transfer value of the pension in spring 2017 was around £ 14,700 including 
around £3,000 of terminal bonus. She was in an Appropriate Personal Pension set up by a 
former employer that was no longer in existence. She was invested in a Unitised With Profits 
fund with a retirement date of 65.
I need to consider if the adviser should have simply put Miss B at ease about her existing 
pension rather than facilitating a switch. As it advised her to switch there needed to be 
reasonable potential for her to be better off to make the advice suitable. The potential to be 
better off needs to be enough to more than compensate for the risk that the consumer might 
end up worse off.  For example if someone had a low attitude to risk, as was the case here, 
there would need to be greater potential for gain, without taking more investment risk.
I have considered the details of the new and old scheme and the review that was 
undertaken.
I can see that the new scheme costs were reported to be cheaper at 0.73% compared to the 
existing charges of 0.875%. Over time and even with similar investment performance in the 
new scheme the lower charges would benefit Miss B. The new scheme is a little cheaper, 
but the difference is not great (0.73 % vs 0.875% which is a difference of just 0.145%). But 
included in the new scheme cost is ongoing advice which cost 0.4%. It seems Miss B has 
received that service as an investment switch was advised
There were no special benefits in the old scheme such as enhanced tax free cash and it 
does not seem there was a market value adjuster applied to the amount transferred. So 
there were no special benefits that would be lost on transfer and which might have made the 
transfer less suitable. 
The old scheme attitude to risk was cautious low/medium and the new was assessed as 
similar. It does seem that the investments in the new and old scheme were both cautious 
and might therefore be expected to deliver lower returns. That means that the potential to 
recoup the cost of advice and deliver hopefully better returns over time would mainly be 
delivered via lower costs with any better investment returns providing additional benefit. 
Based on past performance of the proposed new fund the adviser showed that over the 5 
years prior to the date of the advice the new investment performed much better than her old 
scheme had.  If that performance continued he said it would enable her to recover the cost 
of the advice for the switch within 6 or 7 months. 
Based on this it does seem that there was potential to be better off due to the different 
investment returns and lower cost.
In reality the benefits Miss B could receive might be lower than expected. I note that Miss B 
complains about the fall in value of her fund. But just because a suitable investment does not 
grow as much as had been hoped does not mean the advice was unsuitable at the time. 
The original advice listed reasons for the switch including flexibility such as drawdown. But 
as Miss B had more 20 years to retirement that was not relevant. It also referred to a wider 
range of funds but it seems post transfer she only invested in one, so it does not seem this 
was needed at that time. But this doesnt mean the advice to switch was unsuitable as there 
were other reasons to switch - such as reducing costs.
So on balance I think the advice was suitable. I say that because the new investment offered 
the opportunity of better investment returns (based on past performance) whether it actually 
did deliver those returns. Further the costs were lower and she received ongoing advice. There there was a realistic prospect of recovering the costs of the advice to switch and 
achieve better growth in the future for a similar level of risk. For those reason I do think the 
advice was suitable so I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman