DRN-1874357
The complaint
Mr O complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited have not credited returned items 
to his account; provided poor customer service and reported an incorrect balance on his 
account.
What happened
Mr O opened a shopping account with Shop Direct in September 2017. 
He complained to them in 2019 saying that items had he had returned had not been 
recredited to his account and that hed received poor customer service.
Shop Direct explained that they had provided their final response on these issues in May 
2019 and they insisted Mr O was out of time to refer that complaint to our service. They said 
the rules only allowed him six months in which to do so. 
Our investigator agreed with the business. Mr O had until 4 March 2020 to dispute this view.
As Mr O didnt dispute this the investigator proceeded to consider the outstanding issue 
which hadnt been considered by Shop Direct. That was that the balance of Mr Os account 
had been reported as £2,800 and had jumped from £1,400 without reason.
The investigator didnt think there was evidence that the account balance had jumped. But 
Mr O disagreed so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
As Mr O didnt dispute the investigators view, that we didnt have jurisdiction to consider 
some aspects of his complaint as they were time barred, Ill not consider those issues.
But Shop Direct didnt respond to Mr Os concerns that his account balance had dramatically 
increased so I will consider that aspect of his complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Os account statements for the period in question, but I cant see any 
evidence of the jump in the account balance that hes referred to. The credit limit on the 
account was, at its highest, £1,450 and Ive not seen that the balance exceeded £1,550.
So, it would not be reasonable for me to suggest there is sufficient evidence that Shop Direct 
have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive referred to above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman