DRN-3648143
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the poor customer service he received from ReAssure Limited and the 
delays they caused when he wanted to access pension benefits.
What happened
Mr C contacted ReAssure in October 2020 to encash his pension policy. He wanted to 
receive half of the policys value on 26 February 2021 and the other half in the following tax 
year (i.e. post 5 April). He informed them he was living abroad.
Mr C received his first payment on time, the second payment was made on 19 April. Mr C 
says he expected this to be made on 6 April, at the start of the tax year. 
He says he lost out financially. If he had received the second payment earlier he would have 
invested it in a specific crypto asset which increased significantly in value between 6 April 
and 19 April. He says on 14 April the value peaked, so he might have taken profit at that 
point as his monies would have doubled between 6 April and 14 April.
Mr C is also generally unhappy with the customer service he received. He didnt receive 
answers to his questions, responses were delayed and he received communications by post 
rather than email even though ReAssure knew he was living abroad. He also was incorrectly 
informed there was a free phone number. He had to make lengthy calls which he was 
charged for.
ReAssure accepted they hadnt provided the best service and paid Mr C £215 for the 
troubles caused in relation to the first transfer. They sent a cheque to Mr C which wasnt 
useful to him as he was abroad. Mr C continued to complain and mentioned the significant 
call costs he had to pay to get in touch with Reassure. Subsequently, they paid Mr C another 
£90. 
In February, just before the first payment was made, ReAssure told Mr C he needed new 
forms for the second payment. Despite ReAssure saying they should have been emailed, 
they were again sent by post. Reassure paid Mr C another £200 for the delays and troubles 
he encountered.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and thought ReAssure should pay him an 
additional £150 on top of the compensation already offered due to the continued poor 
service. However, he didnt think ReAssure should pay Mr C any compensation for possible 
financial losses on his investments. He didnt think there was enough evidence to say Mr C 
would have invested in a particular way if funds had been received earlier in April.
ReAssure agreed to pay another £150. Mr C disagreed and thought £2,000 would be a more 
appropriate amount given that ReAssures lack of customer service and that they lied to him 
when they said he would have been given a free phone number which doesnt actually exist.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator issued a view which set out what in detail what happened, so Im not going 
to repeat this again. However, I can assure the parties that I have considered all 
submissions independently and afresh.
Having reviewed all the information available I think its clear (and accepted by ReAssure) 
that the service provided to Mr C was below a standard he could expect.
There were delays in communications and he was repeatedly sent communications by post 
even when it had been made clear that receiving forms by post was time consuming and 
difficult. Also, the process of encashing his funds in two different tax years was not properly 
explained to Mr C from the start and the delay in payment in April could have been avoided.
As the investigator already explained, it isnt this services role to punish businesses for 
mistakes they made. Im considering what impact ReAssures poor customer service and 
delays had on Mr C and what fair and reasonable compensation should be in the 
circumstances.
ReAssure previously paid Mr C £505 in compensation (£215, £90 and £200). The 
investigator raised this by another £150 which ReAssure has accepted. I appreciate some of 
this compensation paid for Mr Cs phone costs and some admin costs. And I can see that 
having to deal with Reassure more than necessary and getting poor service over a 
continued period would have been frustrating and stressful. Ive taken all of this into account. 
But overall, I think the sum of £655 is a fair reasonable amount to compensate him in this 
regard.
I also considered Mr Cs submissions on losing out financially by receiving his April payment 
late. Mr C provided evidence that he was trading in crypto assets and had a large holding in 
the one he said he would have bought at a low and sold at a high price. He also showed 
evidence that he bought another cryptocurrency on 24 April and sold some on 5 May.
Based on the information provided Im satisfied Mr C is actively trading cryptocurrencies and 
I appreciate that if he had received his pension payment in April earlier he could have 
purchased one particular currency at a lower price. However, what someone could have 
done and would have done are two different things. 
I cant know for certain what Mr C would have done. Whilst generally I am able to make 
reasonable assumptions on the balance of probabilities, I dont think there is enough for me 
to say that Mr C would have invested and disinvested in a particular way and when. 
I dont doubt that Mr C now sees this as a lost opportunity. However, I cant ignore that there 
is an element of hindsight here.. He might have invested in the currency he ended up buying 
later in April or even if he bought the asset he now claims he would have bought, he might 
not have disinvested at the time he now sees as most beneficial.
There is simply too much uncertainty for me to ask ReAssure to compensate for possible 
losses here.Putting things right
I think total compensation of £655 is fair and reasonable. Im assuming ReAssure has 
already paid Mr C £505. So they should pay him an additional £150 as soon as possible.
If any previous payments havent been received, these should also be paid.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require ReAssure Limited to pay Mr C the outstanding 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman