DRN-3092671
The complaint
Mrs W has complained to Policy Services Limited, on Mr Ws behalf, that his pension fund 
was inappropriately invested in stocks and shares when it was their understanding that it 
should have been invested in cash pending the conclusion of Brexit.
Mr W felt that he had no choice but to withdraw the entirety of his pension funds in March 
2020 due to the significant falls in financial markets due to the pandemic. He then needed to 
pay a significant amount of income tax on that withdrawal. 
What happened
Mr W had a financial adviser, who Ill call Mr A, who had been a representative of a 
previous firm, which Ill call Firm A. Mr W had been a customer of Firm A through his 
relationship with Mr A, but when Mr A moved to a new firm, which Ill call Firm B on 27 
February 2020, Mr W followed him as a client.
Firm B was unable to service the pension policy which Mr W held with Aegon, and so the 
servicing transferred to Policy Services Limited. But Mr A wasnt a representative of Policy 
Services  rather, he was a representative of Firm B. So Mr A remained Mr Ws financial 
adviser, but as a representative of Firm B. 
Mr W has also complained about Firm A, and in a previous determination by this service, 
has received compensation for what was considered to be its error in having moved Mr W 
from cash into a more stocks and shares based pension fund in July 2019. This liability was 
capped as at 27 February 2020  the point at which Mr W was no longer a client of Firm A.
My understanding is that Mrs W contacted Mr A on 7 February 2020 saying that shed 
thought Mr W had been invested in cash. Mr A emailed Mr and Mrs W on 28 February 2020, 
saying that it was his advice to not switch out of the existing funds as history had 
demonstrated that markets had always done well over the longer term.  
A series of text messages were exchanged on 8 March 2020 between Mrs W and Mr A, in 
which Mr A indicated that neither she nor Mr W needed to worry as, if there had been a 
mistake, then he would put it right for them.
A meeting then took place on 9 March 2020 between Mr and Mrs W and Mr A, following 
which Mrs W sent an email to Firm A saying that they needed to switch their funds back into 
cash as soon as possible.
Policy Services then spoke to Mr A on the same day, advising him that their process for a 
fund switch would involve an adviser completing a full formal advice process with Mr W, and 
that this could take four to six weeks.
Mr A advised Mr and Mrs W that the quicker route would be to cancel Mr Ws servicing 
agreement with both Mr A and Policy Services and Mr W could then carry out the fund 
switch into cash directly with Aegon. This could be achieved in a matter of days.
Further emails were exchanged between Mr and Mrs W and Mr A on 10 March 2020, after 
which Mrs W raised the complaint. Policy Services replied to say that they would ask to be 
removed as servicing agent, but that it was its understanding that Mr A was dealing with the 
complaint.
It said that it couldnt remove Mr A as the representative of Mr Ws pension plan, but that it 
would take five working days for Policy Services to be removed as the servicing agent. Mr 
and Mrs W asked whether this could be actioned quicker, and Policy Services said that it 
had removed itself as the servicing agent and had informed Aegon of this.
It also confirmed that this wouldnt affect how the pension plan was held with Aegon and 
that, once Mr A had also been removed, Mr and Mrs W would be able to request that Aegon 
carry out their instructions directly.
In its response to the complaint, Policy Services said that the decision to switch to cash and 
then fully encash the pension was done directly with Aegon and that Policy Services 
provided no advice on this.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld, saying 
the following in summary:
He didnt consider the text messages to be formal offers of compensation, and they 
were from Mr A himself rather than the business he was representing. He also said 
that hed need to investigate what happened, indicating that this wasnt the end of the 
process.
He was satisfied that Policy Services didnt advise Mr W to switch his pension to 
cash or to entirely withdraw it. Mr A had explained the workaround process to action 
the switch to cash quicker than would have been possible through Policy Services. 
But he also made it clear that Mr W would be acting without advice and on his own 
volition.
He also didnt think that there had been any issue with Policy Services customer 
service. He said it had responded to the enquiries efficiently and removed itself as 
the servicing agent in line with Mr Ws request.
Mrs W said in a subsequent phone call that she was disappointed with the findings, which 
she said stemmed from a feeling that they hadnt been properly compensated for the fund 
switch away from cash in July 2019.
Th investigator explained that this wasnt the responsibility of Policy Services, but of Firm A, 
and as a final decision had already been issued on that matter, it couldnt now be changed.
Mrs W said that they felt they had no choice but to fully encash the pension plan, but the 
investigator replied that they could have waited for Policy Services to provide advice or 
speak to a pensions guidance entity such as The Pensions Advisory Service.
Mrs W said that, due to their losses, they felt they had no choice but to refer the matter to an 
ombudsman for review, and so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has been compensated for the transfer out of cash in July 2019 when he was a 
customer of Firm A, but this loss calculation only ran up to 27 February 2020, at which point 
Mr W effectively moved as a client of Mr A to Firm B, which was a part of a wider network. 
So I need to consider whether there was an ongoing liability for the transfer out of cash in 
July 2019 and which was capped for Firm A in the prior determination. I think there might 
have been, and it might reasonably be concluded that, as Mr W was transferred to the 
advisers new firm, the responsibility for treating Mr W fairly and acting in his best interests 
would have transferred with the adviser to that new firm.
But that new firm wasnt, as far as I can tell, Policy Services. My understanding is that Mr A 
wasnt a representative of Policy Services, which would explain why it was unable to remove 
him as the adviser for the pension plan. Policy Services was used to service Mr Ws policy 
as Firm B was unable to do so. It had no part in, nor ongoing responsibility relating to, Mr W 
not being invested in cash as hed believed to be the case.
Further, Policy Services didnt provide any advice to Mr W relating to which funds he was 
invested in or his decision to withdraw all of his pension funds as a lump sum.
And I agree with the investigator in that Policy Services seems to have responded quickly to 
the request for it to remove itself as the servicing agent so that Mr W could directly instruct 
transactions on the policy with Aegon.
As such, I dont think Policy Services has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman