DRN-1649864
 
The complaint
Mr D says AIB Group (UK) Plc (trading as First Trust Bank) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought the policy when he took out a loan at a meeting in 2001. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy. It provided Mr D with protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment, and included some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. So, on what I 
consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D says he was told he wouldnt get the loan without the cover. First Trust Bank disputes 
this. It cant provide Mr Ds actual application form but thats not surprising given how long 
ago the sale was. It sent in a sample of the loan application form it used around this time and 
I think its most likely Mr D completed and signed a form like this. This gave the option to 
select or decline PPI and the options are set out with equal prominence. Whilst I cant know 
what was said in the meeting, theres nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have 
led Mr D to believe the PPI was mandatory. I have carefully considered Mr Ds comments 
but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what he 
recalls.
So overall, I think its most likely First Trust Bank made Mr D aware he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and he chose to take it out. 
First Trust Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It was up to him to decide given the other ways he had to make his repayments if he 
was sick or lost his job.
However, the bank had to give Mr D enough clear information so he could make an informed 
decision. The cash price of the policy, the interest payable and the monthly cost were shown 
on the agreement Mr D is likely to have signed. And the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. Its possible First Trust Bank didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (like pre-existing medical conditions or certain types of employment contract). 
But Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Mr D says he was entitled to 12 months sick pay but the policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to this and for much longer - up to 24 months. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy 
cover. Mr D said he had savings worth six months salary but the PPI would have allowed 
him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
his future needs.  
Mr D wouldve only got back a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy 
early. And I dont know that the bank made this clear to him. But I havent seen anything 
from the time the policy was sold to suggest he thought hed repay the loan early. So I dont 
think this meant the policy wasnt right for him.
So overall, I think its unlikely Mr D wouldve made a different decision if better information 
had been provided. I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr D has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman