DRN-4066697
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMF.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMF, but I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied and I think they need to put things right for Mr F. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was about 
eight and a half years old and had already completed about 64,000 miles. So, I dont think 
the car would be likely to be entirely fault free, as would perhaps be the case for a brand 
new car.
Ive reviewed BMFs system notes, the photographs Mr F has provided, and the recovery 
invoice. It would have been helpful to have a report from the police or the recovery driver to 
corroborate Mr Fs testimony that theyd suggested the wheel probably hadnt been put on 
properly. But Im persuaded that was likely to be the case because:
The photographs of the inside of the alloy show significant wear that I think would be 
consistent with such a failure.
The tyre was clearly new and that would suggest it had been changed before the car 
was supplied to Mr F. I think that supports his testimony that it was changed before 
the MOT completed, ahead of the sale. The car had therefore driven only about 
2,500 miles since the wheel had been replaced. I think its likely a poorly fitted wheel 
could stay on for a few thousand miles but not for significantly more.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we 
are to assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMF were responsible for 
its quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Im not persuaded that BMF have 
provided such evidence. Whilst they may protest that they werent given a chance to 
inspect and repair the car, I can see from their system notes that Mr F had explained 
hed been in touch with the supplying dealer and hadnt heard back from them. I dont 
think, in those circumstances, it was unreasonable of him to proceed with the repair.
So, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and I think BMF 
should therefore refund the recovery vehicle charge (£340), and the cost of the replacement 
alloy wheel (£315). They should also refund the cost to repair the damaged body panels 
Mr F has evidenced in his photographs, or arrange the repairs for Mr F at their expense. 
On 26 November 2021 a roadside recovery report explained that Mr F needed further 
assistance with his car as there was smoke coming from his brakes. Brakes are, as BMF 
have explained, a wear and tear item, but as the car had passed an MOT the day before it 
was supplied to Mr F I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have smoke coming 
from them only 2,500 miles and three months later. Ive already explained that given the 
limited time Mr F had been in possession of the car the onus was on BMF to demonstrate 
the fault wasnt present at the point the car was supplied. I dont think theyve been able to 
do that, and I dont think this was a simple matter of brakes being worn through wear and 
tear. Its unusual for brakes to smoke and I think BMF should have investigated the issue. 
On the evidence I have Im persuaded, on balance, that the fault was present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr F and that it would be fair to ask BMF to refund that cost as 
well.
Mr F has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to be recovered from busy roads 
on a couple of occasions and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances, I think BMF should pay him £150 in 
compensation.
Mr F has also complained about issues with an electric window and his rear brakes, but 
theyre not issues that BMF have been told about and Mr F will need to raise a complaint 
with them first before this Service can consider any escalation of the matter.
Putting things right
BMF should put things right in the way Ive set out above and detailed below. Theyll need to 
add interest to any refunds as Mr F has been deprived of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Refund the cost of the replacement alloy (£315), the recovery cost (£340), and the 
brake repairs (£341.88), and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay for repairs to the damaged bodywork panels Mr F has evidenced in his 
photographs or arrange them on Mr Fs behalf. If Mr F has already paid for these repairs, BMF should refund that cost and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr F £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman