DRN-2326965
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Dovetail Insurance Services Limited provided him with misleading 
information on renewal of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V took out a home insurance policy through Dovetail, a broker. In 2019 his premium was 
£1,500.
Before the policy was due to renew in July 2020, Dovetail wrote to him with a renewal quote 
from a different insurer for £3,179. 
Dovetail said that Mr V phoned a member if its staff to discuss the quote and it was 
explained to him that Dovetail no longer dealt with his existing insurer, so it might be better 
for Mr V to contact them direct. Mr V disputes that. He says he told Dovetail that hed contact 
his existing insurer direct rather than Dovetail suggesting that he should do that.
Mr V did contact the insurer direct and renewed the policy for £1,512. He complained to 
Dovetail. It didnt agree that it had fraudulently tried to mislead Mr V.
As Mr V still wasnt happy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. He thought Dovetails response was sufficient.
As Mr V didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately there isnt a recording of the telephone call in question, so I cant be sure what 
was said.
I can understand that Mr V found it disappointing that Dovetail didnt explain in the renewal 
letter that his existing insurer wasnt offering renewal through Dovetail as opposed to not 
offering renewal generally. What is clear is that Mr V did contact his existing insurer and as a 
result managed to save a considerable amount on the renewal premium. So fortunately he 
didnt suffer a financial loss since he hadnt accepted Dovetails offer of renewal. 
I appreciate that he had to arrange the renewal himself but he would have had to go to that 
trouble anyway to achieve the saving regardless of whether Dovetail had told him to contact 
the insurer.
Im glad that Mr V found alternative cover that cost much less than hed been quoted by 
Dovetail. I can understand that the renewal process was rather annoying for him but overall I 
dont think its something thats had a significant impact on him. He havent lost out 
financially and any inconvenience was relatively small. Im sorry to disappoint Mr V but in the 
circumstances I dont feel that any compensation is justified.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman