DRN-3006897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about their car insurer U K Insurance Limited because it 
determined that Mr A was at fault for an accident, which they disputed. 
What happened
Mr A had dropped Mrs A off at the bus stop. As he pulled away a collision occurred between 
him and a car driven by a third party (TP) which had been overtaking the bus. Mr A told UKI 
that the TP driver had been careless and driven into him. UKI later obtained a witness 
statement from a passenger in the TPs car. The passenger said Mr A had driven into them. 
Mr A told UKI he felt there hadnt been a passenger in the TPs car. UKI said that whilst the 
passengers testimony would likely be given weight if the matter went to court, Mr As own 
account of pulling out from a parked position was enough to establish that he had been at 
fault. It accepted liability on a without prejudice basis and began settling the TPs claim. 
Mr A complained. He said he knew more about the law than UKI and it was clear from the 
evidence he had provided that he was not at fault. He felt it hadnt taken his evidence into 
account. He was unhappy that, despite his request for it not to do so, UKI had accepted 
liability on his behalf. UKI felt it had handled things reasonably and its decision had been fair. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted UKIs assessment of Mr As own 
statement, and that the policy terms allow UKI to settle matters as it sees fit. He didnt think 
UKI had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs A asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, UKIs terms, as do those of most motor insurers, allow it to settle 
matters as it sees fit. That said we do expect insurers to use the allowance given by that 
term fairly and reasonably. What that means will be different in the circumstances of each 
case. But, effectively, if an insurer completes a reasonable consideration of the claim and 
determines that its prospects for success in defending its policyholders liability for a claim 
arent good, wed be unlikely to say it had acted unfairly and unreasonably in accepting 
liability for the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
Here I can see that UKI:
Gathered evidence, both from its policyholder/Mr A and the TP.
Assessed everything it had been told and gave Mr A time to provide more information if 
he had it. 
Paid close attention to what Mr A himself had said had happened. 
Explained to Mr A why it felt he would be seen as being at fault and it was unlikely it 
could successfully defend him on the basis of the TP being at fault.
Told Mr A, when Mr A had told it that the law was on his side, that there was no case law 
that it was aware of that would support his position that he was not at fault, when he had 
been the one pulling out from a parked and stationary position. 
I note that Mr A didnt provide UKI with further evidence, such as photos which showed there 
was no passenger in the TPs car. I also note that Mr A didnt provide UKI with any case law 
which he felt would support his position. 
I see that whilst Mr A was driving, Mrs A, from her position on the bus witnessed the 
accident. I know Mr A thinks that Mrs As account is more reliable than the TPs witness 
because he thinks there was no passenger in the TPs car. However, I take UKIs point that 
most people would be unlikely to swear to a witness statement and agree to appear in court 
if necessary, if they werent telling the truth. And Mr A hasnt shown that there was no-one in 
the TP car. I think its fair to say that a court would likely place greater weight on someone 
who was unrelated to the driver, like the TP witness, rather than someone who was, like 
Mrs A. Especially when the family member is also the policyholder. I also bear in mind that 
UKI has said Mr As account alone really makes the witness statements irrelevant. As I said I 
havent seen anything from Mr A that makes me think that UKIs assessment of him being at 
fault for the accident, which occurred whilst he was pulling out into traffic from a parked, 
stationary position, is incorrect. 
Im also not persuaded that UKI spoke to Mr A in an unprofessional or biased manner. I think 
it was trying to explain its position which, unfortunately for Mr A, was not agreeable to him. 
I think UKI reasonably assessed all of the evidence and testimony it had been provided. Im 
not persuaded it acted unfairly and unreasonably by moving to settle the claim as it did.
Id add that UKI has confirmed it has settled the matter on a without prejudice basis. As Mr A 
will be aware that means that he can still take action himself to try and establish that he was 
not at fault for the accident. If hes successful then UKI would be able to use that outcome to 
recover its claim outlay from the TP and would be able to amend his claim record 
accordingly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman