DRN-3566837
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a payment he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr G disputes a payment to a retailer of £2,799 on 5 June 2021. He says he realised his 
card was missing and reported this.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payment was made in person and the 
genuine chip on his card was read and the correct PIN entered. Mr G had told it that no one 
else knew his PIN which was unique to his bank card. And the last time he had made a PIN 
verified transaction was on 29 May 2021 at a cash machine. If his PIN had been seen then 
the gap until the disputed payment wasnt consistent with unauthorised use.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There was no plausible 
explanation for how someone could have obtained both the card and PIN. Mr G said that he 
had been at the gym before he noticed his card was missing. But he had a padlock on his 
locker with no signs of forced entry. And as HSBC had shown the last time he had entered 
his PIN was some seven days earlier. If someone had shoulder surfed him then and seen 
his PIN and obtained his card hed have expected immediate use. And if only the PIN had 
been seen then it was unclear how someone could have later obtained the card. Mr G said 
he hadnt written his PIN down or told it to anyone.
There was a balance check on the card at 14:09 that day but no cash taken out. And then 
the payment at 14:53. There was significantly more money in the account and no other 
attempt to make a payment. This wasnt expected behaviour of a fraudster. Although Mr G 
said hed been told HSBC would report this to police there was no record of it stating this.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised   
Mr G wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr G authorise the payment on the account, which could have been by allowing 
someone else to use the card?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely.
Ive seen the audit logs for payments using this card. And Im satisfied that as HSBC says 
the disputed payment was made when the chip on the genuine card was read and the 
correct PIN entered. 
There are several main possibilities as to how this could have happened. One is that as 
HSBC says Mr G authorised the payment. And as Ive referred to that could have involved 
him allowing someone else to use the card. Another is that someone known to Mr G was 
able to make the payment. And the other main one  which is effectively Mr Gs explanation 
- is that an unknown third party used his card.
I know Mr G had expected HSBC to report this to police. Thats not something it would do. 
Even if police had obtained CCTV that wouldnt necessarily resolve whether the person 
using the card was acting with authority or not. And CCTV isnt available here.
Ive listened to recordings of calls Mr G has had with HSBC about this and hes been 
consistent in what hes said. Mr G doesnt know when the card went missing. He had it on 29 
May 2021 for a cash withdrawal when he used the PIN. He thinks he may have had it when 
he paid in a cheque to a branch on 3 June 2021 but hes not sure. He didnt often use the 
card as he used his phone to make contactless payments. It was in a wallet with his driving 
licence. Nothing else went missing. And there was no sign of any forced entry to his locker at 
the gym that day. He has been firm in saying he didnt write the PIN down or tell it to anyone. 
It was a PIN hed set for himself based on HSBCs records. 
On 5 June 2021 a balance enquiry to his account was made at 14:09 which required the 
card and PIN. Mr G had a substantial balance on his account. The distance from that cash 
machine to the store where the payment was made was as I understand it about five miles. 
At 14:53 the payment of £2,799 was made. Mr G was on the phone to HSBC shortly after 
that and his card was cancelled by 15:18. That shows that anyone using the card without his 
authority risked discovery at any time and why its likely as much money would be taken as 
quickly as possible by a fraudster. 
The key issue is how anyone found out the PIN. If the PIN had been seen on 29 May 2021 
then there is no credible explanation for someone waiting to use the card or somehow later 
obtaining it. I think that rules out an unknown third party as most likely involved. 
Mr G doesnt suspect anyone close to him. But if someone had got access to his card by 
taking it from his wallet without him knowing then there is no likely explanation for how the 
PIN was discovered. And this isnt his explanation.
So, Im afraid I dont find it most likely here that the card and PIN were used without his 
authority based on the evidence. And so, I dont have a reasonable basis to require HSBC to 
refund this money. I know he will remain disappointed by this given what is at stake for him.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman