DRN-3642833
The complaint
Ms M complains that IG Markets Limited closed her trades when she had less than 50% 
equity in the account. She claims she should be compensated so that she did not lose more 
than 50% of the equity in her account.  
What happened
Ms M had a spreadbetting account with IG. On 8 August 2021 she had a number of long 
positions open on Spot Silver. As a result of the market moving against her positions at the 
time, the net equity in her account fell below 50%. In accordance with its regulatory 
obligations, IG proceeded to close Ms Ms trades. As a result of the volatility of the price of 
silver at the time, Ms M was left with less than 50% equity in her account by the time IG had 
closed her trades. So she complained. 
IG looked into her complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It provided 
evidence to show how volatile the price of silver was on the day, demonstrating a 10% swing 
in its price within a minute. It explained that it had no obligation to begin closing her trades 
earlier and that the rules did not require it to guarantee shed be left with at least 50% equity 
in her account. It said that the only guarantees were that it would begin closing positions 
when the account equity fell below 50%, and that as a retail investor she could not have a 
negative balance. 
Ms M remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into her complaint, and didnt agree it should be upheld. In short, he considered that 
Ms M was wrong in her interpretation of the rules, and he didnt agree that IGs website was 
misleading. Further, he considered that the evidence showed that her trades had been 
appropriately executed at prices that reflected the underlying market. 
Ms M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She provided detailed 
submissions. In summary she said:
Protections were offered to retail clients were supposed to be greater than 
professional traders. She said in her case she was treated less favourably than a 
professional trader in breach of various rules. 
She said the rules specified that a firm must close retail client positions when their 
funds fall to 50% of the margin needed to maintain their positions but in her case her 
account was allowed to drop far lower than that, effectively wiping out the account 
and the funds deposited. She said that this meant there was no material difference 
between how her account was treated and a professional traders account. 
She said that the volatility of silver wasnt persuasive, because IG had the 
technology in place to close the positions at any level or to restore her balance 
retrospectively. She said that IG breached the clients best interests rule, as well as 
best execution rules. She said that IG didnt give her sufficient warnings of the risks 
associated with the investment and that IG misled her into thinking she couldnt lose 
more than 50% of the equity in her account. 
She had incurred numerous debts in order to ensure she had sufficient margin on the 
account and despite alerting IG to this, it ignored her pleas. 
She raised some concerns about how IG dealt with a chargeback she made to 
recover some of the money, and the way it was now threatening to pursue her for the 
outstanding amount. She alleged various offences under a number of statutes and 
complained that she wasnt being allowed access to her account. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms M for her detailed submissions. I can see this matter has caused her a 
great deal of distress, and she clearly feels very strongly that she has been misled. 
However, I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each 
submission or point she has raised. The purpose of my decision is to focus on the key issues 
on the complaint and explain my reasons for my findings. 
I should also make clear that Ms M has raised a number of issues which she has not 
complained to IG about, and which were not the subject of her referral to this service. I do 
not have the power to make findings on these issues. I only have the power to consider the 
original complaint she made to the service  namely that she understood IGs obligations to 
be that she would not be left with less than 50% equity in her account and, since that hasnt 
happened, she considers IG is responsible for compensating her. 
The relevant rules that govern IGs obligations in this regard are set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook  specifically in the section called Conduct of Business 
Rules (COBS). 
COBS 22.5.13 says:
(1) A firm must ensure a retail clients net equity in an account used to trade restricted 
speculative investments does not fall below 50% of the margin requirement [] 
required to maintain the retail clients open positions. 
(2) Where a retail clients net equity falls below 50% of the margin requirement, the firm 
must close the retail clients open positions on restricted speculative investments as 
soon as market conditions allow. 
COBS 22.5.16 says that firms are required to comply with COBS 2.1.1 (clients best interests 
rule) and COBS 11.2A.2R (obligation to execute orders on terms most favourable to the 
client). 
COBS 22.5.17 says that the liability of a retail client for all restricted speculative investments 
connected to the retail clients account is limited to the funds in that account. 
COBS 22.5.18 clarifies that this means a retail client cannot lose more money than the funds 
specifically dedicated to trading restricted speculative investments. 
In my view the above rules are clear that there is no obligation to refund or take liability for 
losses that exceed 50% of the clients net equity in the account. COBS 22.5.17 and COBS 
22.5.18 would be entirely redundant if that were the case. Instead the rules require firms to take action when a clients net equity falls below 50% of the required margin. This means 
closing a clients position or positions as soon as market conditions allow. But the losses 
sustained as part of that process are not something the regulator has said businesses need 
to take responsibility for. 
I note that Ms M has quoted guidance from the European regulator. That same guidance 
supports what Ive said above. Whilst the introduction of the rule to trigger an automatic 
closure of positions at 50% of the accounts equity is designed to ensure that a consumers 
margin is not reduced to zero, there is nothing in that document that suggests that a 
consumers losses are guaranteed to only amount to 50%. In fact, the document specifically 
makes references to 50% being the trigger for margin close out  and as Ive said above, 
thats what happened in her case. The guidance then goes on to explain negative balance 
protection  that is the requirement that a business, such as IG, compensate consumers for 
any losses which reduce the accounts balance below zero. The rules explain that negative 
balance protection is designed as a backstop for when MCO does not work effectively as a 
result of very sudden price movement. In Ms Ms case the sudden price movement meant 
that the balance in her account was reduced to below 50% - but it was not reduced to zero 
or below zero. 
So insofar as Ms M has made submissions to the effect that she thinks the FCA mandates 
that IG needed to compensate her for any losses over the 50% threshold, Im not persuaded. 
Im satisfied that IG acted entirely within the FCAs rules by taking the action that it did, in the 
way that it did. 
Ms M has also made some comments around best execution and the clients best interests 
rule. In my view she has equally misinterpreted the effect of these rules, because neither of 
them required IG to compensate Ms M for losses her own trading decisions caused. I cannot 
overlook the fact that IG did not cause Ms Ms losses  her own trades, and the fact that she 
thought the price of silver would rise when in fact it fell, is what caused her losses. What 
those rules required IG to do was to ensure that in closing her positions, IG offered her a 
price that was reflective of what was happening in the underlying market. This is what best 
execution means  she needed to be offered the best available price at the time the closeout 
of her positions was triggered. 
I have looked at the times of when her account was flagged as in margin deficit, and when 
her positions were closed  and I have then considered the data IG has provided of the 
prices it was receiving, versus the charts from the underlying market. Taking all this into 
account, Im satisfied IG has acted fairly and reasonably and offered Ms M the best available 
price at the time. The level of equity in her account at this point is not relevant to IGs 
obligations, as long as she did not have a negative balance  which she did not. I note that 
shortly before the closeout Ms M closed a trade out herself  so if she had wanted to limit 
her losses, she couldve decided to close all of her trades at that moment in time. 
Finally, Ive considered whether IG has misled Ms M in any way. Im not persuaded by her 
submissions that IG did not warn her about losses or the risks of spreadbetting. Im afraid I 
do not find her submissions credible. IGs website has many warnings about the high risk of 
losses, including a banner outlining that the majority of IGs clients lose money 
spreadbetting. 
The terms and conditions explicitly say, on the first page after the contents page, that Bets 
carry a high level of risk and can result in losses  and further referred her to IGs Risk 
Disclosure Notice that sets out the risks in detail. Im satisfied there was ample warning to 
Ms M that she ran the real risk of losing money spreadbetting. 
Having looked at IGs statements about what happens when the equity in an account drops below 50%, Im not persuaded by Ms Ms submissions that it misled her. In my view there is 
nothing in the statements IG make which ought to suggest she couldnt lose more than 50% 
of the equity in her account. The only claim IG makes is that standard trading accounts will 
be triggered for position closure when your equity drops beneath 50% of your margin 
requirement. Its clear, particularly in view of the rules I have quoted above, that this means 
positions will be closed once that level is reached  but there is no guarantee or promise that 
losses wont exceed that 50%. 
I note that Ms M has made numerous submissions about a chargeback she initiated and 
which she says she was successful in pursuing. Ive seen no evidence as to why that 
chargeback was successful nor do I consider it in any way relevant to my assessment of 
whether IG acted fairly and reasonably in the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied IG hasnt done anything wrong and therefore 
does not owe Ms M any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman