DRN-3413045
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA France IARD did not fairly compensate her when it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a store card. 
I know that more than one business was involved in the sale of PPI to Mrs B, and that a 
third-party business investigated the complaint on behalf of AXA. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer mainly to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mrs B in a department store at the same time as she applied for the store 
card in 2002.  The PPI policy was underwritten by AXA. The credit was provided by a third-
party business. 
In or around 2013, Mrs B complained to the lender about the sale of PPI. The lender said 
that it didnt think PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs B then complained to this service. Her 
complaint could not be considered at that time. Thats because this service can only 
consider complaints about activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(the FCA). Sales of PPI alongside store cards by a lender were not regulated activities at 
that time. 
Since then, AXA  the insurer  accepted responsibility for sales like this. In 2019, Mrs B 
then complained about AXA. AXA asked the third-party business to investigate the complaint 
on its behalf. After returning the complaint to this service in 2019, AXA agreed to uphold the 
complaint. It offered to refund all of the premiums Mrs B paid for PPI and pay compensatory 
interest on top of those premiums. AXA said Mrs B had only paid £3.08 in total for PPI. It 
offered £5.79 in full and final settlement of the complaint including interest. 
Mrs B did not accept AXAs offer. By way of a letter dated 10 October 2019, Mrs B said she 
thought AXA had only dealt with the commission aspect of her complaint and it had not dealt 
with the mis-sale element. I understand Mrs B sent a further copy of this letter by registered 
post on 21 November 2019 when she did not receive a response. 
For reasons that are unclear to me, AXA did not respond to Mrs Bs correspondence until 2 
September 2020. It said that its offer comprised a full refund of PPI premiums charged to her 
account, as well as any interest charged to those premiums. AXA also said it had paid 8% 
compensatory interest. 
Mrs B did not accept AXAs offer and so she wrote again on 25 November 2020. She 
reiterated her view that the mis-sale element of her complaint had not been dealt with. She 
said that the offer did not cover her postage costs and that she had sent two letters by 
registered post. She sought compensation for the time spent to pursue her complaint. 
AXA responded on 4 December 2020. It said that its offer was in respect of the mis-sale and 
not the commission aspect of the complaint. It reiterated its explanation as to its calculation 
of compensation. 
I understand Mrs B then contacted AXA by telephone in December 2020 to escalate her 
complaint. She called again in February 2021. AXA responded on 17 February 2021 to say 
that its compensation offer was correct and that it did not think a further compensatory 
payment was due to Mrs B for the inconvenience she was put to in pursuing her complaint. 
The matter was passed to our adjudicator. He said Santanders calculation of compensation 
was correct, and that he didnt think AXA should pay anything to Mrs B for the inconvenience 
she was put to in pursuing her complaint. Mrs B did not agree. She said she had spent a 
large amount of time pursuing her complaint, as well as spending money on postage and 
photocopying. She thought her costs in pursuing her complaint amounted to £100 and she 
thought AXA should reimburse her for the same. 
Our adjudicator looked again at the matter. This time, he said he thought Santander should 
pay £25 to Mrs B for the way it had handled her complaint. Mrs B disagreed. She thought 
£100 would be more palatable. She said she thought our adjudicator placed a ridiculously 
low value on the expense and inconvenience she was put to in pursuing her complaint. 
As Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld Mrs Bs complaint to the same extent as our adjudicator. Ill explain why 
below. 
The mis-sale complaint has been determined in Mrs Bs favour, so I dont have to consider 
what happened at the point of sale. I am looking at whether AXA fairly compensated Mrs B 
for the mis-sale. 
Did AXA fairly calculate compensation? 
The first thing Ive considered is whether AXA fairly calculated how much compensation it 
should pay Mrs B. 
In a case such as this, I would expect AXA to refund any PPI premiums Mrs B paid, along 
with any associated interest and charges that were incurred because of the PPI. Id also 
expect AXA to pay 8% simple interest to compensate Mrs B for the time she was out of 
pocket because of the PPI. 
In this case, AXA doesnt know how much Mrs B spent each month for PPI. This isnt 
unusual given how long ago the PPI was sold. Businesses are not required to keep records 
indefinitely. However, AXA does know that Mrs B paid £3.08 in total for PPI. It has refunded 
this amount, along with 8% simple interest. Accordingly, I am satisfied AXAs offer is in 
accordance with what I would expect and is fair. 
Administrative issues
As I said above, our adjudicator thought AXA should pay £25 to Mrs B for the inconvenience 
AXA caused when handling her complaint. Mrs B did not agree with that view and sought an 
award of £100. 
Looking at what happened in that regard, I can see that on 10 October 2019, Mrs B sent a 
letter to AXA in which she said she thought it had only paid her the commission element of 
her complaint. She received no response to that correspondence and chased the matter 
again in November 2019. From the evidence before me, AXA did not respond to that 
correspondence until almost a year later until 2 September 2020. It should not have taken 
AXA such a long time to reply. I can see why Mrs B would have been frustrated at that lack 
of response. 
However, I am satisfied that on 2 September 2020, AXA made its position clear. It said that 
its offer comprised a full refund of the PPI premiums that were charged to her account, along 
with 8% simple interest. In other words, its £5.79 offer was not just about commission. I 
appreciate Mrs B entered into correspondence and made telephone calls to AXA thereafter. But I cant say AXA did anything wrong in that regard. By that point, it had already explained 
that it had refunded all Mrs Bs PPI premiums. I can see AXA responded on more than one 
occasion to reiterate that position. 
As I said above, AXA should have responded to Mrs Bs correspondence of 10 October 
2019 earlier than it did. I turn now to consider what AXA needs to do to put that right. 
In her correspondence to this service, Mrs B said AXA took between eight and nine years to 
bring her complaint to a conclusion and that she estimated her direct costs during that time 
to be in the region of £100. It is not clear to me how Mrs B arrived at that figure, but I accept 
she would have had some costs in bringing her complaint to this service. However, I need to 
make clear that when bringing a complaint to this service, we would not expect the losing 
party to reimburse the costs of the successful party. Put simply, we would not expect AXA to 
reimburse Mrs B for the costs in bringing her complaint. Moreover, I cant say it took AXA 
between eight and nine years to bring the complaint to a conclusion, given that the complaint 
initially was made to the lender, who was not regulated by the FCA in respect of the sale of 
PPI at the point of sale. 
However, if I am satisfied that AXA made a mistake or treated Mrs B unfairly, I can require it 
to make an additional award to Mrs B to compensate her for any inconvenience she was put 
to as a result of that mistake. My role in that regard is not punitive and is designed to reflect 
the impact of the mistake upon Mrs B. 
I accept that Mrs B would have most likely experienced frustration at AXAs delay between 
October 2019 and September 2020. And I can see that she incurred some postage costs in 
chasing a response. I havent been provided with any further information about any direct 
costs arising from the delay or any further impact upon Mrs B. With all of this in mind, I am 
satisfied that our adjudicators recommendation that AXA pay £25 to Mrs B is fair in all of the 
circumstances. 
I know Mrs B sought more than that from AXA and I am sorry to disappoint her. 
My final decision
My decision is that AXA France IARD fairly calculated compensation for mis-selling PPI to 
Mrs B. However, AXA should not have taken such a long time to respond to Mrs Bs 
correspondence of 10 October 2019. It must pay £25 to her to in compensation for that error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman