DRN-1930539
The complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) mis-sold him a finance 
agreement.
What happened
In February 2016 Mr B acquired a second-hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement. 
He borrowed £14,408.62 repayable over 48 months with payments of £229.19 and an 
optional final payment of £8,394.69. The agreement came with a maximum mileage 
allowance of 8,000. Mr B says he likes to change cars every two years and he tried to do so 
in 2018, but discovered he hadnt reached the half way point of the agreement.
Mr B complained to BMWFS, but it rejected the complaint and so he brought the matter to 
this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld in 
part.
He noted Mr B had asked BMWFS to waive the £1,015.48 excess mileage charge. Our 
investigator didnt think this necessary. The agreement signed by Mr B stated: you can 
terminate this agreement at any time before your final repaymentyou will have to return 
the vehicle and pay any arrears and any other sums which have become payable under the 
agreement. Plus, the amount by which one-half of the total amount payable exceeds the 
aggregate of the advance payment and repayments you have paid.
Our investigator thought this made it clear that Mr B would have to pay 50% of the sum due 
plus any other sums such as the excess mileage charge. He also noted that the low mileage 
rate allowed Mr B to pay a lower monthly sum.
He concluded that the paperwork set out the terms of the agreement and these had been 
signed by Mr B. On that basis there were no grounds for upholding his complaint. However, 
he also said that the onus was on the dealer to properly explain the agreement and ensure it 
was what the customer wants. He considered the testimony provided by Mr B together with 
the supporting evidence of his request for voluntary termination indicated that he had 
thought he could change the car after two years. He believed there had been some 
miscommunication and that BMWFS should pay Mr B £200 compensation for this.
He added that he didnt believe Mr B was entitled to any other redress as he had made use 
of the car and had been paying reduced monthly sums for the mileage he had covered. Mr B 
agreed, but said he wanted it noted that when he was trying to end the agreement, he hadnt 
been told that he could increase his monthly payments to offset the increased mileage. Our 
investigator put this to BMWFS which said the customer has the opportunity during the 
course of an agreement to increase the mileage and to pay more, but this was the 
responsibility of the customer.
BMWFS didnt agree with the investigator and said there was no substantial evidence that 
Mr B had been misled. The fact he asked for voluntary termination didnt mean he had 
planned to end the agreement after two years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If one looks at the paperwork which was signed by Mr B it is clear what was on offer and 
what had been accepted by him. He agreed to an 8,000-mile limit and to the monthly 
payments with a sizable balloon sum due at the end. All of this means Mr B had low cost 
motoring up front, but at the cost of excess mileage and the balloon payment. To pay off 
50% of the sum borrowed would mean he would have to either wait beyond two years or 
make a significant payment at the two-year point.
The question is, was he made fully aware of this by the dealer? Mr B is adamant that he told 
the dealer he wanted to change the car after two years and he presumed the deal would 
allow him to do so. If he was able to pay the sizable outstanding sum to clear 50% of the 
sum borrowed he would have been able to do so, but I dont think he expected to be in that 
position. He had the understanding that he would reach the 50% point in two years.
Finance arrangements can be confusing to the layman and it is incumbent on any financial 
institution to make them clear to a customer. I cannot say what was said by the dealer, but I 
am satisfied that Mr B came away with a less than clear understanding of what he had 
signed up to and on balance I agree that compensation of £200 is a fair outcome.
Putting things right
I dont think BMWFS need do anymore as Mr B has had the benefit of reduced payments 
and has not lost out financially. He has simply lost the expectation of being able to end the 
agreement after two years without any more to pay. I would add that I dont think he lost out 
by not opting to make increased monthly payments which was available to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman