DRN-4229306
The complaint
Mr W has complained on behalf of his limited business, B, that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided 
incomplete bank statements which had a knock-on effect on the business. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In summary, Mr W says that the statements he downloaded monthly for Bs account 
have been missing transactions for many years. He discovered this during an audit after 
closing the account and feels this has caused damages for B in excess of £1,700,000.
HSBC explained that their system was showing no issues with the transaction details so 
thought any missing items were likely due to a glitch. As a result, they offered B £500 
compensation. Mr W did not accept this and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator felt that there was an indication that HSBC had made an error which caused 
incorrect statements to be produced, but did not agree that all of the consequential losses  
Mr W had mentioned were as a direct result of the error. They recommended an increase in 
compensation to £1,750 for the inconvenience caused to B.
Mr W disagreed on behalf of B so the complaint was passed to me. I came to a different 
outcome to the Investigator so I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not minded to increase the offer already made by HSBC 
of £500 compensation. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ill firstly focus on the cause of the issue, which is the online statements not downloading 
correctly. The initial problem is that due to the length of time it took Mr W to make a 
complaint on behalf of B, which was around three years, HSBC no longer had any evidence 
of what the online portal would have shown in regards to Bs statements. So this information 
is no longer available to me. 
Because of this, the only evidence I have available is Mr Ws own spreadsheet with the 
transactions he says was missing, as well as statements in a pdf format that Mr W says were 
the downloaded statements and finally the full statements sent from HSBC. Comparing the 
full statements with the transactions Mr W has said were missing, I can see that full pages of 
transactions were missing and these are often the last page or pages of the month.
When Ive then compared this to the statements Mr W says were downloaded from the 
online portal, there is no correlation with the amounts Mr W says are missing. It appears 
there are more transactions missing from the downloaded pages than what Mr W has 
recorded on the spreadsheet. Considering this, it is difficult to see what the error is and how 
it could have occurred.
As the statements provided are inconclusive, Ive considered everything else available to 
me. As previously mentioned, HSBC has confirmed there were no known issues with 
downloaded statements at that time. Considering that this issue appeared to only affect Mr 
W and from what he has provided it appears it was generally the last pages of the month, I 
have to consider the possibility that the initial error has been caused by a user error by Mr 
W. In any event, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that its more likely HSBC has caused 
the initial error of the missing transactions Mr W found during his audit.
I will, however, explain my thoughts on the redress that was recommended and Mr Ws claim 
of consequential losses, for completeness. Even if I were to agree that HSBC was at fault for 
partial statements being supplied to Mr W, I still would have felt that the original offer of £500 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I want to set out that as the complaint has been brought by W which is a limited 
company and therefore a separate legal entity that cannot experience distress. So when 
considering compensation, I am only able to take into account the inconvenience and 
reputational damage caused to the business itself. 
As a limited company, B has a responsibility to keep its own accurate records, through 
invoices, bills and other sources. While it is clear that Mr W has relied on the downloaded 
statements, HSBC has said that paper statements would also have been sent to B. Mr W 
has said the business moved regularly, however, it would be reasonable to expect that B 
should have kept HSBC up to date with their correct address. In any event, I would have 
expected Mr W to realise much sooner that such a large amount of transactions were 
unaccounted for over a ten year span had he been keeping accurate internal records for B. 
With all this in mind, along with the fact that direct losses as a result of an error should be 
relatively foreseeable, I dont agree with the consequential losses Mr W has mentioned. I 
think B has some responsibility for not realising there was an issue sooner and for not 
keeping their own accurate records of their balances. Mr W made the choice to stop trading 
following the audit while he sorted out the issue, however I dont think this was a foreseeable 
consequence of the transactions not appearing on the statements. And this is also true for 
the accounting and legal fees Mr W has cited. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im currently not minded increase the offer previously made 
by HSBC of £500, which they have said it still available to B if they accept it. 
HSBC responded and accepted my provisional findings, and agreed to honour the offer of 
£500 compensation. 
Mr W responded on behalf of B and provided significant amounts of further comments and 
evidence for me to consider. In part, this included information about Bs accountants which 
Mr W felt were unprofessional and did not handle the finances of B correctly. As well as 
further evidence of missing transactions on the statements, highlighting that the printed 
pages had discrepancies which he felt also proved HSBC made the error and not him.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to our service in relation to Bs complaint and 
additional comments and evidence in response to my provisional decision. I appreciate the time he has taken to provide this information. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute 
resolution service and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the points I find to be material 
to the outcome of Bs complaint. This is not meant to be a discourtesy to Mr W and I want to 
assure him I have considered everything he has submitted carefully. 
Mr W has provided additional spreadsheets again to highlight that he feels HSBC caused the 
error and it was not a user error by himself. He has pointed to the print outs he provided  and 
feels they do not have enough page numbers for the transactions they should contain. Ive 
looked over this evidence and having done so, this does not change my initial findings as set 
out in the provisional decision. Namely that the print outs provided do not tally with the 
spreadsheets so it is difficult to see what the error could be and how it occurred. 
In HSBCs initial response to Bs complaint, they could not explain how the missing 
transactions occurred as they had no evidence of them being missing. This was because the 
account had closed almost three years prior so they no longer had access to what the CVS 
download would have shown. They have since looked into it further and their technical team 
have not found any other known issues with CVS downloads and, as mentioned above, their 
system shows all of the transactions for Bs account with none missing. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, where the evidence is unclear and I have two 
differing versions of events, I have to consider everything else available to me. Having done 
so in this case, Ive still not seen enough to persuade me that its more likely the initial error 
was likely caused by HSBC. However, as I said in my provisional decision, even if I were to 
agree with Mr W on this point, I would still have recommended the £500 compensation and 
would not have directed HSBC to increase this.
Mr W has asked for evidence that HSBC sent him full statements in the post. HSBC have 
confirmed that B was also set up for paper statements, and I can see in Mr Ws submission 
to our service that he does not deny that B received paper statements, just that he could not 
rely on them fully as they changed address frequently. As the duplicate statements that 
HSBC has sent our service contain all of the transactions, I think it is more likely that the 
paper statements also would have contained all of the transactions.
I appreciate Mr Ws comments about the accounting firm B used during the period in which 
he says the incomplete transactions were being downloaded on CVS. He feels the 
combination of the accounting firm that Ill call D and the incorrect data from HSBC caused 
the losses he is claiming. I do appreciate that B had problems with D, but I dont think this 
detracts from Mr Ws responsibilities as a director to keep accurate company records for B 
including its financial records. And this is the case even if he used an accounting firm. 
Overall, I think it is reasonable to expect that the significant number of missing transactions 
would be spotted sooner keeping in mind a directors responsibility to keep accurate 
company records.  
As I said in my provisional decision; with all this in mind, along with the fact that direct losses 
as a result of an error should be relatively foreseeable, I dont agree with the consequential 
losses Mr W has mentioned. I think B has some responsibility for not realising there was an 
issue sooner and for not keeping their own accurate records of their balances. Mr W made 
the choice to stop trading following the audit while he sorted out the issue, however I dont 
think this was a foreseeable consequence of the transactions not appearing on the 
statements. And this is also true for the accounting and legal fees Mr W has cited. 
As B is a limited company and therefore a separate legal entity that cannot be distressed, I 
can only take into account the reasonable inconvenience caused to the business and the 
reputational damage. Keeping in mind the limitations above, I agree that the £500 
compensation would be a fair offer had HSBC made the error initially. My final decision
I dont think its more likely that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused the error in relation to the 
missing transactions.
HSBC UK Bank Plc have agreed to honour the original offer of £500 compensation and I 
now direct them to pay this to B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman