DRN-1852052
The complaint
Mr K says esure Insurance Limited didnt deal properly with a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy and that it repaired his car when it should have been written-off.
What happened
On 3 March 2020 Mr Ks car was damaged in an accident. He contacted esure when it was 
in the garage waiting for parts to arrive in order for repairs to be carried out. He was 
concerned about the damage that was done to the radiator during the accident and didnt 
think the car would be repairable. 
On 18 March 2020 esure told Mr K that the repairs would be finished by 24 March 2020, but 
he asked for the work to be stopped. He said he didnt think the car would be safe to drive 
after it was completed. At that point, an advisor told Mr K the work would continue, as the car 
was repairable. But on 20 March 2020 Mr K was sent a cheque to settle the claim. esure 
then realised that it had made an error, as the repairs were almost completed. It stopped the 
cheque, but didnt tell Mr K, although an engineer tried to call him three days later.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He said the policy allowed esure to 
decide how to deal with any claim, so it could choose whether to repair the car or not. He 
thought esure had made it clear to Mr K throughout that the car was repairable. Although it 
made an error in sending him a settlement cheque, he said that was put right quickly.
 
The investigator noted that the cars radiator had been replaced and that there was nothing 
to show it wasnt safe to drive. He thought it was fair that esure had paid Mr K £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. But as Mr K said hed sent his car registration 
document back to the DVLA, he thought it would be fair for esure to cover any costs arising 
from that. esure agreed to do that, subject to evidence.  
Mr K said esure had spent around £5,000 on repairing the car, which was close to its market 
value. As he didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although esure has the right to decide whether to repair a car or not, I thought it was 
reasonable for Mr K to query why esure had chosen to do so in this case. Insurers generally 
dont authorise repairs if the cost of them is likely to exceed around 60% of the cars value.
esure said the cost of the repairs rose when they were well under way, so it made sense for 
them to continue. It said the repairer thought the car was worth £8,000 (as it was unaware it 
had been written-off previously) and the initial repair estimate was just over £4,000. It was 
only after the repair costs rose (when substantial work had been done on the car) that it 
realised the cars pre-accident market value was lower than first thought. At that point, esure 
thought it was too late in the process to stop the repairs.
I think that clarifies the confusing explanation esure had previously provided. The file shows 
that until esures engineer made the error of sending Mr K a cheque, Mr K had been advised 
throughout that the car would be repaired. He made it clear part way through the claim that 
he wanted it to be written-off, but esure was also clear in saying it wouldnt agree to that. 
I can see why Mr K was so concerned that the car might not be safe to drive even when  
repaired. It had sustained a fair amount of damage in the accident - and presumably, he 
knew it had been written-off previously. In my opinion, esure may have decided not to have it 
repaired had it been realised at the start that the cars true pre-accident market value was 
around £5,000. But I dont think that means Mr K has lost out. 
It was always esures decision whether or not to repair the car, as long as it could safely be 
returned to the road, which esure believes is the case. And Mr Ks main concern was the 
damage to the radiator, which was replaced. So although he wasnt happy to have the car 
back, in the circumstances here, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to continue with 
the repairs. As long as they were done to the right standard, I think that should have put him 
back in the position he was in before the accident.
     
Its unfortunate that esures engineer raised Mr Ks hopes by sending him a settlement 
cheque. esure says that was due to the large amount of correspondence on the file and the 
fact that the engineer was working from home at the time. The two valuations for the car may 
also have played a part. But I think esure was entitled to withdraw the settlement offer when 
it realised the engineer had made a mistake. I think its payment of £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience for the error was adequate. Mr K has had no financial loss as a 
result of it (except for the cost of DVLA correspondence, which esure agreed to reimburse).
Although I understand how disappointed Mr K must have been after the offer was withdrawn, 
I dont think hes shown that esure acted unreasonably in relation to his claim, so I cant 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman