DRN-2593323
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her Save to Buy ISA in 2015.
Miss B also complains about the way her mortgage application was handled in 2019.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
In July 2015 Miss B applied for a Save to Buy ISA with Nationwide with an aim of receiving
cashback and incentives when she purchased her first home. Miss B made an initial
payment of £500 and went on to save monthly.
Miss B later moved home and became a local authority tenant. On 12 September 2019 Miss
B completed a decision in principle with Nationwide and was approved for a mortgage. Miss
B says Nationwide should have told her at this point that she didnt qualify for a Save to Buy
mortgage or ISA cashback because of the loan to value (LTV) of her application.
Miss B returned to Nationwide to complete the application in full on 16 October 2019. But
after checking with a central department, the advisor said Miss B didnt qualify for a Save to
Buy mortgage due to the LTV of her application.
The application didnt proceed with Nationwide. Miss B has told us that the experience of
finding out she didnt qualify for the cashback was very upsetting. Miss B says went on to
apply for a Help to Buy ISA and mortgage with another business.
Miss B complained and Nationwide responded on 31 October 2019. Nationwide said Miss B
had been given the relevant product information and terms and conditions when she applied
for the Save to Buy ISA in July 2015 and that the LTV meant her application didnt meet the
criteria for a Save to Buy mortgage. Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. He didnt
ask Nationwide to pay Miss B the cashback but said it should offer £500 in recognition of
way her mortgage application was handled. Nationwide didnt agree and said that when Miss
B took out the Save to Buy ISA in 2015 she was living at a different address. Nationwide
said that she wouldnt have known that she was going to purchase a property under the
Right to Buy (RTB) scheme, and therefore require a lower LTV, when she applied for the
Save to Buy ISA in 2015. Nationwide also said that the Save to Buy ISA literature says that
to qualify for the connected bonuses Miss B would have to take out a Save to Buy mortgage. 
Miss B responded and said she didnt agree with the investigators recommendations and
would accept £1,000 to settle her complaint.
As neither party accepted the investigators view and Nationwide asked to appeal, the
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B says the Save to Buy ISA was mis-sold in 2015 because she didnt qualify for a Save
to Buy mortgage and the associated cashback and incentives in 2019. I accept that in 2015
it was Miss Bs intention to use the Save to Buy ISA funds and incentives for a purchase, but
she agreed to the account terms when she applied. Miss B has told us she wasnt given the
associated terms and conditions or product information but I note the application form she
signed specifically confirms this information was provided. I think its most likely Miss B was
given product information about the Save to Buy ISA before she agreed to proceed.
The Save to Buy ISA account terms say the cash back and incentives will only be paid if a
Save to Buy mortgage is taken out. But when Miss B applied in 2019 she didnt qualify for a
Save to Buy mortgage, so wasnt able to take advantage of the cashback and incentives.
Nationwide has pointed out Miss B purchased her property under the RTB scheme.
Nationwide has also said Miss B moved after she opened the Save to Buy ISA and
subsequently bought that property. I think thats a reasonable point as Miss Bs situation
does appear to have changed between 2015 and 2019. I dont think Miss B could reasonably
have known she would be able to purchase a property under the RTB scheme in 2015 when
she opened the Save to Buy ISA. I note that the RTB purchase was confirmed by Miss Bs
local authority in September 2019.
As Im not persuaded Miss B could reasonably have known that her future mortgage
application would be at a reduced LTV on a RTB basis, I dont think that was a deciding
factor when she applied for the Save to Buy ISA. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I havent
been persuaded that the Save to Buy ISA was mis-sold in 2015.
Ive also looked at how Miss Bs mortgage application was handled in October 2019. The
investigator said the application was handled poorly and asked Nationwide to pay £500 for
the distress and inconvenience caused. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I havent found
grounds to award £500. Ill explain why.
Miss B visited Nationwide on 12 September 2019, shortly after her RTB offer was issued by
the local authority, and completed a decision in principle. The outcome showed Miss B was
approved for a mortgage with Nationwide and she says the branch staff told her the
application would qualify for the Save to Buy ISA cashback and incentive. When Miss B
visited Nationwide again on 16 October 2019 it was found that her application didnt qualify
for a Save to Buy mortgage which meant she couldnt take advantage of the cashback and
incentive. I appreciate the decision came as a surprise and can see it upset Miss B.
I agree that Nationwide delayed giving Miss B the final word on whether she qualified for the
Save to Buy ISA cashback and incentives by around a month, but Im not persuaded that
telling Nationwide to pay £500 is a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Miss Bs mortgage doesnt appear to have been unreasonably delayed. Miss B has told us
she had already considered another lender and was approved for a Help to Buy mortgage. I
agree there was a delay, but I havent found it impacted Miss Bs overall position.
I intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint but reduce the level of compensation. Whilst I agree
Miss Bs complaint should be upheld I think a figure of £100 more reasonably reflects the
impact of Nationwides delay of just over a month and the disappointment caused. Unless
either party responds with new information that changes my mind, I intend to upholdMiss Bs complaint and direct Nationwide to pay her £100 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
I asked Miss B and Nationwide to respond with any new information or points they wanted 
me to consider. Miss B responded to say she had sent us all her information but still felt 
Nationwide had handled the situation poorly which had caused distress and impacted her 
health. Nationwide responded to say it accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss B for the information shes sent us in support of the complaint. I 
appreciate Miss B is disappointed at my decision to tell Nationwide to pay her £100 instead 
of the £500 the investigator originally awarded. I did take everything Miss B told us into 
account when considering how to fairly resolve the complaint. But, for the reasons I set out 
previously, I felt £100 fairly reflected the impact of Nationwides actions in this case. Im sorry 
to disappoint Miss B but I remain of the view that a settlement of £100 is fair in all the 
circumstances.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Miss B £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman