DRN-4210156
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint relates to a secured loan they have with Tandem Home Loans 
trading as 1st Stop Secured Loans. They believe the loan was not affordable and that 
Tandem should have carried out further checks before agreeing to the application. They 
have concluded that had Tandem done appropriate checks it would have identified Mr W 
had a gambling addiction and should have refused to lend. In addition, Mr and Mrs W dont 
believe that Tandem had their home valued.
In settlement of the complaint, Mr and Mrs W want all interest and fees charged to be 
refunded to reduce the capital balance. Going forward, they want the interest suspended to 
allow them to repay the amount borrowed over the remainder of the term with lower monthly 
payments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws loan started in October 2021. They borrowed £50,000 to consolidate some 
debts (just over £21,000) and complete home improvements. The loan was arranged on a 
repayment basis over a term of 25 years. The interest rate was fixed for five years at 12.9%.
A fact find was completed for Tandem to establish Mr and Mrs Ws needs and 
circumstances. They said they wanted to consolidate most of their unsecured debts; the 
exception being a credit card on which they were not paying interest. Tandem calculated that 
consolidation would save Mr and Mrs W around £90 each month compared to the minimum 
payments required to the loans and credit cards. However, as they paid more than the 
minimum, the new loan would save them £225 each month. Taking account of the average 
cost of living and the additional information Mr and Mrs W gave Tandem about their 
outgoings, this meant that after the debts were consolidated and the new loan was in place, 
they would have a disposable income of around £260 each month. Mr and Mrs W told 
Tandem completing the home improvements would add value to the property and would 
improve the quality of the house. 
Tandem responded to the complaint in a final response letter of 7 September 2022. It set out 
the process that was gone through to assess the value of Mr and Mrs Ws property, the 
affordability of the loan and the risks associated with lending to them. Tandem then 
confirmed why it had concluded the application was an acceptable risk and affordable. In 
relation to Mr Ws gambling, it explained that it didnt require bank statements, but even if it 
had seen the statements he provided during the complaint investigation, the information 
contained in them would not have been reason for it to have made further enquiries. Tandem 
was satisfied that there was no evidence from the operation of the loan that there were 
affordability issues and noted that Mr and Mrs W hadnt informed it of any financial 
difficulties. The complaint was rejected. 
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with the response and asked us to look into the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions but didnt say why. They 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially confirm that, while Mr and Mrs W dont believe Tandem had their home 
valued, I have seen evidence that it did. While a surveyor didnt attend their property as 
would have happened when they originally bought it, that type of survey is only one of the 
options available to a lender now. When additional lending is required, it is common for 
lenders to complete a system-generated valuation as this ensures there are no delays in the 
process and it saves the homeowner the cost that is associated with a traditional physical 
valuation. 
Mr W has said he thinks that Tandem should have asked him for bank statements and if it 
had, it would have identified that he had a gambling problem. I would firstly confirm that 
there is no requirement for a lender to obtain bank statements from prospective borrowers. 
However, even if Tandem had asked Mr and Mrs W to provide bank statements at the time 
of the application, I am not persuaded the information they would have contained would 
have raised concerns. As the application was made in October, the statements that would 
have been available would have been August and September 2021. I have examined the 
statements for these months and while they do show payments to gambling sites, the 
amounts and frequency were modest and would not have been sufficient to raise concerns.
Tandem had a duty to lend responsibly. It was required to carry out an assessment of 
affordability in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook. 
I have looked carefully at the assessment Tandem carried out before it approved the loan. It 
took account of Mr and Mrs Ws verified net income, their committed expenditure and basic 
cost-of-living costs. Based on the information available to Tandem, I am satisfied that it was 
reasonable for it to consider the loan was affordable.
Tandem said that the cost-of-living figures used were based on Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data on minimum costs, along with the information Mr and Mrs W provided about their 
outgoings. After taking these costs into account, along with Mr and Mrs Ws committed 
expenditure, there was a disposable income of around £260 each month. I think it was 
reasonable for Tandem to consider this was sufficient disposable income for a family of four, 
bearing in mind that it had already deducted food, clothing, socialising and travel costs. 
While Mr and Mrs W might have spent more than the minimum ONS figures, I consider that 
it was reasonable for Tandem to consider that the disposable income gave them a cushion 
for this. 
There was no requirement for Tandem to carry out an interest rate stress test as the interest 
rate on the loan was fixed for five years. However, Tandem did carry out such a test and 
based on the information it had, it showed the loan was still affordable. 
Overall, I am satisfied it was reasonable for Tandem to consider the loan was affordable and 
lend to Mr and Mrs W the amount it did based on the information it had at the time of the 
sale.
While the lending was affordable, I also need to decide whether the decision to lend to 
Mr and Mrs W was reasonable, based on the information Tandem had at the time. It is not 
for me to interfere in the legitimate lending decisions that Tandem makes, but I can consider 
whether it reached its decision fairly. Mr and Mrs W are right that Tandem needed to have regard for their wider circumstances. 
For example, their payment history with creditors, the amount of credit they had taken and if 
they had taken a lot of credit in a short space of time. However, that assessment should 
always be objective and take into account all the information available, including 
Mr and Mrs Ws explanations of any potential issues. Mr and Mrs Ws credit files were 
showing some defaults, but only one recent one, and missed payments on a utility account. 
However, they provided explanations for those situations which clearly reassured Tandem 
that Mr and Mrs W were not in financial difficulties. In addition, the one credit account that 
was in default was being repaid by the consolidation. 
I would comment at this point that a lender is entitled to rely on the information provided by a 
consumer. It would be inappropriate for a lender to doubt a customer, or potential customers 
integrity without good cause. I dont consider the information Tandem had at the time of the 
application suggested the financial difficulties Mr and Mrs W have now said they were in. I 
am not persuaded that there was any reason for Tandem to decline to lend to Mr and Mrs W 
in 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 July 2023. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman