DRN-1991333
Complaint
Mrs C complains that CIS General insurance Company Limited (CIS) avoided her motor 
insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
Background
Mrs C took out a motor insurance policy with CIS over the telephone. When she was 
involved in an incident with a third party, she made a claim for the damage to her car. 
CIS said shed answered the question it asked about motoring convictions incorrectly. And it 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her 
policy and decline her claim because of this. But it did refund the premium shed paid. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt think we should uphold it. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and they agreed with CIS that it was 
careless. They felt that CIS was entitled to avoid Mrs Cs policy and decline her claim and 
also agreed that CIS was correct to ask its broker to return the premium shed paid.
Mrs C doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Mrs C initially said shed made an honest mistake in not fully disclosing her convictions, but 
later said she hadnt understood that she needed to let CIS know about them all as she 
hadnt been asked a clear question. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIS thinks Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
told it shed only had one driving conviction (a TS10 - a traffic offence) in the last five years. 
 
Ive listened to the call Mrs C made when she bought the policy. I recognise the policy was 
taken out under stressful circumstances as her previous policy had ended a few days earlier. 
So, shed been driving without insurance and needed the policy to be set up quickly. 
When setting up her policy, the caller asks Mrs C to confirm if the TS10 was her only 
motoring conviction in the last five years. And Mrs C said, yes  she also commented thats 
the traffic thing. Mrs C had been given a TS10 a year earlier for a traffic offence. But shed 
also been given an SP30 for speeding three years earlier. She did not tell CIS about the 
SP30 at this time.  
Mrs C was given the two offences years apart  and for completely different reasons. So, I 
believe Mrs C knew about both. I think her comment that the TS10 was the traffic thing 
indicates she was aware that the caller was referring to her traffic offence and not her 
speeding offence. The caller asked Mrs C if the TS10 was her only conviction  which 
indicates they only had a record of one conviction  the TS10 - not both. Mrs C was under 
an obligation to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to CIS about her 
driving convictions. 
Near the end of the call, the caller read out a statement that includes a section about driving 
convictions  this section sets out a broader description of the offences it expects customers 
to disclose including fixed penalty notices  but again Mrs C does not disclose the SP30 at 
this time. Having said that, I appreciate this was a rushed call, and the statement was read 
out amongst other information she needed to be given before the policy could be set up  
which was her priority at the time. 
Mrs C was then sent her policy documents. Shed been told on the call to carefully check 
these. I can see the welcome letter explicitly says that she needed to check the details were 
correct and let them know of anything that was incorrect. It also explained the potential 
consequences of failing to do so. Her statement of insurance has a similar warning and 
details all driving convictions under a separate heading. On the first page, it has a heading: 
Details of any motoring convictions, driving licence endorsements, fixed penalties, or 
disqualification in the last 5 years. The SP30 is not listed here and Mrs C did not contact CIS 
to notify it of her SP30 either. 
Mrs C initially told CIS that shed made an honest mistake and had forgotten about the 
SP30. And based on what Ive seen, I dont believe she misled CIS intentionally. But there is 
an obligation on customers to take reasonable care when answering these questions, and I 
dont believe forgetting the SP30 can be deemed to be exercising reasonable care. I 
appreciate that she took the policy out when she was stressed out after having been stopped 
for driving without insurance, and I accept this may have affected her memory or confused 
her as to what shed disclosed and what she hadnt, but it still doesnt explain why she didnt 
notify CIS of her earlier conviction on receipt of the documents, which clearly shows CIS 
hadnt been notified of it. 
I understand Mrs C has, more recently, through her representative, said she didnt forget the 
SP30 but she hadnt understood CIS required her to tell it about the it. This is because on 
the call shed only been asked about convictions and not fixed penalty notices. Her 
representative feels they failed to ask her a clear question. This isnt what shed told CIS 
earlier  she said shed forgotten about the SP30 not that she hadnt understood she needed 
to disclose it. 
But nevertheless, Ive thought carefully about whether CIS has done enough to put Mrs C on 
notice that she needed to disclose the SP30.  Im struggling to understand Mrs Cs latest 
explanation that she remembered the SP30 but thought she didnt need to disclose it 
because the caller had only asked about convictions. The TS10 and SP30 are both offences that carry 3 points. So, if CIS clearly wanted to know about the TS10  and described it as a 
conviction  I dont understand why Mrs C thought they wouldnt want to know about her 
SP30  an offence that carried penalty points exactly like the TS10. Mrs C has also not 
explained why she thinks the TS10 and SP30 are different and she thought she needed to 
disclose the TS10 and not the SP30. Im also aware that her documents do specify she 
needed to tell it about any fixed penalty notices, and she didnt notify CIS of it then either.  
Overall, Im satisfied that CIS has done enough to put Mrs C on notice that she needed to 
disclose the SP30 and the TS10. And Im more persuaded by Mrs Cs first explanation, that 
she understood she needed to disclose them both  but she made an honest mistake and 
simply forgot about the SP30. But as Ive said above, I dont think thats taking reasonable 
care to not make a mis-representation. 
If CIS had been told about both the SP30 and the TS10, it says it would not have offered to 
insure Mrs C. CIS has provided a copy of its underwriting criteria which shows that, if 
customers have more than one driving conviction, they dont offer cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
CIS has said Mrs Cs misrepresentation was careless because even if she hadnt 
remembered to tell CIS about it on the call, it feels she shouldve notified it upon receipt of 
her documents and checking her licence. It doesnt feel she took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
For the reasons explained, Im also satisfied that Mrs Cs misrepresentation was careless so 
Ive looked at the actions CIS can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Im satisfied CIS was entitled to avoid Mrs Cs policy from the date she took it out in 
accordance with CIDRA. This is because even though the misrepresentation was careless 
and not deliberate, CIS have shown they wouldnt have offered cover on any terms had it 
known about Mrs Cs convictions when the policy was taken out. And, as this means that  
in effect  her policy never existed, CIS does not have to deal with her claim following the 
incident she had with a third party. But it has correctly instructed the broker to refund any 
premiums she has already paid. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing CIS to rely on it to avoid Mrs Cs policy and not deal with her claim produces the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman