DRN-1937449
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the amount of compensation Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) has 
offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside a credit card account.
What happened
Mr I opened his credit card account in January 2000 and at that time did not take out a PPI 
policy. However, the records now available indicate he took out a PPI policy to protect the 
account in June 2000. 
Mr I complained to RBS that the PPI had been mis-sold. RBS initially said it could find no 
PPI had been paid on the account. Mr I was able to provide some statements that showed 
PPI had been paid so RBS agreed to uphold his complaint. 
RBS offered Mr I £128.63, after tax, in compensation to settle his complaint. Mr I wasnt 
happy with the offer as he wasnt satisfied with how RBS had calculated it and said it had 
provided insufficient information to show how it had worked out the compensation. So he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said the compensation offered was fair. Mr I remained unhappy and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has agreed to uphold Mr Is s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Therefore, in 
this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
RBS does not have full records of the account, it only has some computer records about the 
account, which isnt surprising considering the account and PPI were both taken out some 
20 years ago. Legally businesses are only required to keep full records for six years.
Mr I took out his store card in January 2000 and RBS has provided to me a copy of his 
application form, signed by him on 5 January 2000. This shows Mr I didnt select to take out 
the PPI with his account. RBS has also provided to me a screenshot of its computer records 
that indicate the PPI was added later, in June 2000. It is not uncommon that PPI was often 
sold during a marketing phone call, some months after an account was opened.
Originally RBS told Mr I its records indicated there was no evidence that PPI was paid on the 
account. RBS holds statement data in full, from May 2001, and this statement information 
showed no PPI was charged from May 2001 to September 2007 when the account closed. 
Also, the application form indicated that no PPI was taken out when the account was 
opened. So RBS said there was no evidence PPI was on the account.
But Mr I was able to provide two statements for the account from January and February 
2001 and both these showed that PPI had been charged to the account. RBS accepted this 
evidence to show there had been PPI on the account and it agreed to uphold the complaint 
that the PPI was mis-sold. It also rechecked its records and found a reference to a PPI policy 
starting on 26 June 2000. Again, RBS has provided to me a screenshot from its records 
showing this.
RBS used the information from the statements Mr I had provided to estimate what he may 
have paid for the PPI during the period it was active. Based on the evidence now available, 
RBS said the credit card account was opened in January 2000, but the PPI was not added to 
the account until June 2000. 
So, using the actual data from the two statements Mr I provided, RBS then estimated the 
balance and costs of the PPI going backwards to June 2000 on a reducing basis. It has 
assumed in this case, as the credit card account was already open, that the balance of the 
account in July 2000 was £292.25 and the PPI paid this month was £2.23. This reducing 
method has been accepted as fair when there is no accurate data available. And the 
approach taken by RBS in assuming a balance on the account, rather than a zero balance, 
when the PPI was taken out, is also fair.
RBS has provided copies of the data from its systems showing the summary of the 
statement data held from May 2001 onwards. When the statement data starts in May 2001 
there is a credit balance of £10.00 showing on the account. There is a small spend shown in 
August 2001 which reduced the credit balance to £4.52 credit and this amount was then paid 
out of the account in October 2004. But no other spending transactions are shown on the 
account statement data and as there was no balance outstanding, no PPI is shown as 
charged between May 2001 and September 2007. So on the evidence available I cannot see 
any PPI was charged after May 2001.
Based on all the evidence presented by both parties, I am satisfied that Mr I opened his 
credit card account in January 2000 but did not take out PPI at that time. The records 
provided by RBS indicate that the PPI started in June 2000 and nothing was paid for PPI 
from May 2001 onwards. 
I think the approach taken by RBS in using the data from the statements provided by Mr I 
and using a reducing balance method going backwards is fair to estimate the costs of the 
PPI where there is data missing. And it has used the actual data from the statements for the 
months these are available.  Once the balance on the account was fully cleared, by May 
2001, compensatory interest has been worked out on everything Mr I paid for the PPI to 
compensate him for being out of pocket.
Overall, I think the approach of RBS in working out the PPI costs and compensation is fair 
and that the total compensation offered to Mr I is also fair.
If Mr I hasnt received the compensation yet or not cashed any cheque he was sent, RBS will 
have to update the compensatory interest to the date it now makes the final payment to Mr I.
I have noted all Mr Is concerns and the information he has provided about his account and 
he wants full copies of all statements available from RBS. He has been advised he can seek 
this information by a SARS request. If he wishes to do this, it is for him to pursue separately 
with the business. I have seen the database evidence of the statements as this has been 
provided by RBS to this service and I have seen the records of other evidence as I have 
indicated in this decision. I would reassure Mr I that there is nothing to suggest this data and 
information taken from the computer records of RBS is not accurate.Overall in this case I think the calculation undertaken by RBS, incorporating the evidence 
available and its approach to estimates for the time when no data is available, has reached a 
fair amount of compensation. And I dont think any more compensation is due as there is no 
evidence that PPI was paid for any different time period than from June 2000 to May 2001.
If Mr I has not yet received his compensation then RBS should update the compensatory 
interest to the final date of payment. But I am not upholding this complaint that any more 
compensation is due. 
My final decision
I think the compensation RBS Insurance Plc has calculated and offered to Mr I for the mis-
sold PPI is fair, subject to updating the compensatory interest to the date of final payment if 
required. Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman