DRN-1651383
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
administering his mortgage account. He wants matters put right and the arrangement to pay 
reinstated.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with Barclays, which had a current account attached to it with an 
overdraft. This enabled him to borrow flexibly but it was a term of the mortgage that Mr M 
didnt borrow more than the overdraft limit.
Barclays said that Mr M had breached the limit when he missed a payment in July 2019. 
Mr M disagreed as he said that hed made overpayments previously, hadnt missed that 
payment and said that he hadnt breached the limit. 
Mr M complained to Barclays, who accepted Mr M hadnt missed a payment in July. It 
explained that Mr M was in arrears and he went over the overdraft limit when interest was 
charged in September and October 2019 for the overdraft. Barclays also said that once the 
limit was breached in these circumstances, it wouldnt accept new proposals to repay the 
arrears without a court order. It apologised for the initial incorrect information and paid £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M disagreed as the mortgage didnt specify a date of the month and by the end of 
September he was below the limit. Mr M noted that Barclays was stating a different overdraft 
limit to that in the agreement and said his credit records had been affected. Mr M 
complained to us. 
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. He said after reviewing the 
operation of the mortgage, Mr M had breached the limit for a total of 13 days in September 
and October 2019 (as the interest was charged before Mr M had paid, though his payment 
was made within the month). The investigator noted that Mr M had paid towards the arrears 
as agreed and felt that Barclays shouldve advised Mr M that as he was so close to his limit, 
he should consider paying a little more to be safe. He noted that the limit was changed over 
time, but this wasnt the cause of Mr M exceeding the limit  Mr M wouldve exceeded the 
larger limit in any event.
But the investigator thought Barclays actions over a minor breach was unfair and 
unreasonable, and didnt treat Mr M fairly. Mr M was paying towards the arrears as agreed, 
as well making the monthly payments; he only exceeded the limit by a small sum for a few 
days. The investigator thought Barclays shouldve shown forbearance and should consider 
reinstating an arrangement to pay (he added that Mr M should consider paying slightly more 
to avoid breaching the limit again).
Mr M raised a new issue about a further reduction of the limit and said he wanted the 
investigator to make a finding about the earlier change to the limit. Mr M felt that he didnt 
know why the limit changed or whether it would continue to be changed. He felt strongly that 
Barclays had breached the contract by lowering the limit by £50 in August 2019.
Barclays disagreed. It said that it had treated Mr M fairly and it believed that Mr M knew 
when he had to pay the monthly interest for the overdraft. Barclays added that Mr M knew 
that the terms of the arrangement to pay was that he had to comply or no other agreement 
would be reached without a court order. It didnt accept that nearly complying in full was 
enough, and pointed out Mr M had been in arrears for several years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint to this service wasnt about the reduction of the overdraft limit, which is 
why neither Barclays nor this service can deal with it now. Its open to Mr M to raise a new 
complaint about this point, though I would point out the mortgage offer makes it clear that the 
overdraft limit can be changed. Im going to deal with the core of the complaint made, which 
was whether Barclays acted fairly in dealing with the mortgage and the possible breach of 
the terms of the mortgage by Mr M.
The issue of the change to the overdraft limit in August 2019 isnt relevant to the resolution 
of the complaint. This is because Mr M did exceed the limit by over £60 (which is more than 
the larger limit pre-August) for a few days in September and October 2019. This happened 
because he didnt pay in the interest due early enough in the month. The monthly statements 
show when interest is charged by Barclays and the amount to be taken by next month, so I 
accept Mr M knew when he had to pay but I think there were issues about communication.
First, Barclays was incorrect in initially telling Mr M he missed a payment in July 2019; as it 
accepts, this was wrong and caused Mr M trouble and upset. Barclays didnt clearly explain 
to Mr M in its final response exactly when and how he breached the limit  because by the 
end of the month all was rectified, Mr M was left unclear how he had breached a limit when 
the end of month balance was below the limit.
While I accept that the arrangement to pay made it clear Mr M had to pay the agreed amount 
towards the arrears and the monthly payments, including the interest for the overdraft, or it 
would be breached, given the complexities of this type of mortgage more shouldve been 
said to explain to Mr M what he needed to pay and when. I note that internally Barclays has 
fed back concerns about the wording and explanations given to Mr M.
Mr M did pay towards the arrears and monthly payments. If he hadnt been so close to the 
limit of the overdraft, I dont think Barclays wouldve ended the arrangement and threatened 
possession proceedings  it was the technical breach of the overdraft limit which caused the 
end of the arrangement to pay. 
And I dont think its fair to ignore the size of the breach and simply declare legal 
proceedings will be issued and the only acceptable proposals are those from a court  this 
incurs a considerable amount of stress for the consumer (as well as costs) and arguably 
wastes time as a court in these circumstances is unlikely to order anything other than a 
suspended possession order. Barclays own policy says that a referral to litigation can be 
made; not must. It also comments rightly in its policy that Repossession is a last resort 
and is only instigated when all other attempts to resolve the issue have been exhausted. 
Threatening a consumer who has made all payments by the end of the month with 
repossession for exceeding their overdraft limit for a few days by about £60 is neither fair, 
proportionate or treating repossession as the final resort in my view.Putting things right
Too much has changed, such as Covid-19 and a payment holiday, for me to simply say the 
original arrangement to pay should be reinstated. Barclays should review Mr Ms financial 
position again and consider an affordable arrangement to pay. Mr M is now fully aware of the 
consequences of breaching the overdraft limit and the importance of not doing so again.
I note that Mr M hasnt disputed the amount paid for the trouble and upset hes suffered, and 
hasnt provided any evidence of any additional trouble and upset. I understand that hes 
concerned that his credit records have been adversely affected, but as hes been in 
mortgage arrears for several years, Im not persuaded that hes suffered any additional loss 
and in any event, it is accurate to say that he breached the limit and the terms of the 
arrangement to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should review the 
matter, including the financial position of Mr M now, and consider whether an affordable 
arrangement to pay can be put in place. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman