DRN-2580741
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made three mistakes on his account within a short 
time. He feels that the compensation offered for the two later complaints is inadequate and 
not in line with what it offered for the first one.
What happened
Mr M first contacted HSBC in December 2019 regarding an international payment that hadnt 
been made. He said hed set the payment up in October 2019 to be paid in December for his 
nieces 21st birthday. When the payment wasnt made, Mr M contacted HSBC and was told 
that HSBC had held it back as it needed more information from Mr M. It had then failed to 
contact Mr M so the payment wasnt made. HSBC agreed it had made a mistake and offered 
Mr M £200 compensation and £9 for the sending fee.
Mr M contacted HSBC again in March 2020 as he was having difficulty in setting up an 
international payment. Mr M says the advisor didnt explain that the IBAN number (the 
payment identifier) Mr M was trying to use was too short to be valid and, in the end, Mr M 
had to resolve this for himself.
A few weeks later Mr M found he was having difficulty in cancelling an online payment that 
was due to debit his account on 16 March. He called HSBC but the advisor said they 
couldnt see any payment for that date so he wasnt able to cancel it. The payment was 
made but then refunded by the business. 
Mr M complained to HSBC to say he wasnt satisfied with the service hed received. HSBC 
agreed that thered been mistakes in the way his two calls in March had been dealt with. It 
offered to cover the cost of the international calls Mr M had had to make. In addition, it could 
see that hed had a loss of £5.66 on the refund due to the exchange rates and agreed to 
cover this as well. It also offered Mr M £100 compensation.
 Mr M wasnt happy with the compensation for the two later mistakes so he brought his 
complaint to this service.  Our investigator agreed the amounts offered for the two 
complaints were different but this didnt mean that one was necessarily viewed as more 
serious than the other. He felt that HSBC had dealt with the complaint fairly and that, overall, 
the compensation was reasonable so he wouldnt be asking HSBC to do anything more. 
Mr M disagreed and said that while initially hed felt compelled to accept what the 
investigator had said, he didnt agree that the compensation was reasonable. He felt HSBC 
had established a benchmark in its offer of £200 for the first complaint but had then dealt 
with the two other complaints differently. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this isnt the decision Mr M is hoping for but, having done so I consider HSBC has 
dealt with the complaints fairly as Ill now explain.
HSBC agreed that it made mistakes on the three transactions Mr M contacted it about. It 
accepts that it failed to make the necessary enquiries on the payment to Mr Ms niece with 
the result this payment, which was intended as present, wasnt sent. Its also accepted that 
the advisors in the two calls in March provided inadequate advice to Mr M.  
I agree with HSBCs explanation of all of these incidents so I wont go into them in detail but I 
can understand why Mr M feels so disappointed at the service hes received.  
HSBC offered Mr M compensation for what happened. It offered £200 plus £9 to cover the 
sending fee for the first complaint and £100 plus £25 to cover the calls and costs incurred by 
Mr M for the second complaint and third complaints. This money has been credited to Mr Ms 
account. The question is whether this is sufficient for whats happened or whether HSBC 
now needs to do anything more.
Ive seen what Mr M says about the compensation, in particular that he feels its illogical to 
offer £200 for the first mistake but then to offer only another £100 for the two that came after 
that. He feels HSBC has set a benchmark and needs to follow that through.
I should explain that when we find that a business has made a mistake, our aim is to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been if the mistake hadnt occurred. Where 
thats not possible then we may ask the business to compensate the consumer instead for 
the upset and inconvenience theyve had as a result of whats happened. Theres no precise 
way of calculating such awards as each case will depend on its own facts and on the impact 
of any mistake. So although there were three mistakes involving international payments, that 
doesnt necessarily mean that each case would attract the same compensation.
Ive looked at the three incidents and while the compensation offered is different, I dont 
consider that its unreasonable, taking into account the nature of the mistake and the impact 
that it caused. The first issue involved the non arrival of a 21st birthday present so its not 
unreasonable to think the impact of this may have been greater than the inconvenience 
caused by the two incidents in March. 
But even if that not the case, Ive looked at the incidents in March and I consider that the 
compensation offered is reasonable and in line with what Id have awarded for complaints of 
this type taking into account the inconvenience and upset they caused. And, as each 
complaint has to be looked at on its own facts, I cant agree that HSBC was required to use 
the first payment as a benchmark for any future complaints.
For the reasons set out above, I consider that the compensation already offered by HSBC is 
reasonable and I wont therefore be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 Cerys Jones
Ombudsman