DRN-2329615
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his deferred benefits from a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) and a personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr B had deferred benefits in an OPS that hed accrued working for a previous employer 
between 1988 and 2003. He also held a personal pension plan (PPP).
Portal completed a fact find with Mr B in May 2014 and contacted his OPS for details about 
his deferred benefits. Portal ascertained the following about Mr Bs circumstances:
he was 52 years old
he was married
he was unemployed and unlikely to make further pension contributions
hed had a heart attack and had diabetes
he intended to retire at 65
they listed assets as a property valued at £150,000
Portal identified Mr Bs objectives as:
passing his benefits to his family
wanting to take responsibility from OPS over concerns that the scheme was in deficit
consolidation of his pension plans
wanting to release cash from his pension as soon as possible
wanting to use his pension to pay off his mortgage
Mr Bs OPS projected that his deferred benefits would provide an income of £17,665 a year 
at age 65, or a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) of £75,022 and income of 
£11,254 a year. And confirmed that Mr B had the option of taking his benefits from the age of 
55. At that stage his benefits were valued as an income of £8,554, or a PCLS of £39,028 
and an income of £5,854 a year. Mr Bs OPS informed Portal that the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of these deferred benefits were £175,104.
Portal produced a suitability report for Mr B in April 2015. It recommended that he transfer 
his deferred OPS benefits and the £16,228 held in a PPP into a SIPP. Portal gave the 
following reasons why it considered the recommendation was suitable:
future investment returns of 6.69% a year before initial and on-going advice and plan 
charges could be achievable
a required growth rate based on agreed assumptions was 6.55% a year
the SIPP enabled Mr B to take control of how he took his benefits
Portal believed that a transfer was likely to result in increased pension benefits on a 
like-for-like basis.
better death benefits
the potential for an enhanced annuity in the future
a transfer allowed 25% of the fund to be taken as a tax free PCLS at 55
Portal concluded by explaining that a transfer therefore meets your key objectives in these 
areas and are far better than remaining in the schemes.
Mr B accepted Portals recommendation. Portal submitted an application for a SIPP for Mr B 
in May 2015 and £17,954 was transferred from his PPP. In August 2015 a CETV of 
£220,036 was transferred from Mr Bs OPS. A 5% adviser fee was taken from both of these 
values. 
In October 2018 Mr B complained to Portal. He said that he didnt think he had the attitude to 
risk or capacity for loss to have made this transfer suitable. He didnt think the risks were 
adequately explained. Mr B claimed that he was misled about the size of the fees and their 
impact on the performance of his pension. He didnt believe that the advice to transfer or the 
underlying investment choices were suitable.
Portal responded in January 2019 and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They explained why 
they thought the transfer met Mr Bs objectives and was in his best interests. They said the 
investment choices werent too high risk and matched his attitude to risk, which they say was 
balanced.
Mr B didnt accept Portals answer and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
considered the circumstances and thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think the advice to transfer Mr Bs deferred OPS benefits was suitable. He said that Mr Bs 
objective of taking a PCLS at 55 was already available to him and it provided a large enough 
sum to pay off his £30,000 mortgage which was a stated objective. He explained that the 
critical yield  the investment returns needed on the investment to match the defined 
benefits given up  to age 65 was too high. And it wasnt reasonable to expect that 
investment returns on balanced risk investments could match the value of the benefits being 
given up. He explained that he thought Mr Bs objectives could be better met by accessing 
his deferred OPS benefits at 55 instead. Our investigator didnt think that the other 
considerations like lump sum death benefits or concerns over the OPS funding deficit made 
a transfer suitable.
Our investigator also considered the transfer of the PPP. And couldnt see any justification in 
Portals suitability report that adequately justified the transfer. He couldnt see that the 
transfer would be cost effective.
Portal disagreed with our investigators view. They maintained that their advice had been 
suitable for Mr Bs objectives. They provided further evidence that theyd explored the option 
for Mr B taking an ill health pension through his OPS and it wasnt available to him. They 
didnt agree that it was suitable for Mr B to take his OPS benefits at 55 as the reductions 
compared to age 65 were too high. They felt that the concerns over the funding levels of the 
OPS were legitimate. They didnt agree that the critical yield was as important as the 
Lifetime Hurdle Rate (LHR). Which they defined as the investment return necessary to 
match the benefits given up, if the funds remain invested in a personal pension and income 
is taken as drawdown instead of annuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Portal gave Mr B advice on two different types of pensions. One was a personal pension 
which was a defined contribution pension. It held a pot of money valued around £16,000 
which was invested. The second was an OPS which had defined benefits. The years Mr B 
had contributed in that scheme bought him benefits in the form of guaranteed income and 
death benefits. 
OPSs with defined benefits offer valuable guarantees to consumers that are lost on transfer.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) under section 19 for firms providing advice on such transfers. The 
starting assumption for advising firms needed to be that such a transfer isnt suitable. And 
any recommendation to transfer must clearly demonstrate that the transfer is in the clients 
best interest. 
Portal have shown us the suitability report they prepared in April 2015 for Mr B that 
recommended he transfer his pensions. Ill start by considering the advice to transfer his 
deferred OPS benefits. 
The suitability report provided Mr B with two figures for required growth needed to match the 
benefits provided by his OPS. The first one indicated that a required growth rate of 6.55% a 
year was needed for a drawdown equivalent. The second indicated a growth of 11.52% a 
year was needed for an annuity equivalent. The report added a note to explain that the figure 
of 11.52% was also known as the critical yield. 
I think this is quite significant because Portal had a responsibility to explain in a clear way to 
Mr B how a transfer would compare with what he was giving up. COBS 19.1.7 says when a 
firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, it should consider the clients attitude to risk 
in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up. So of the two figures the critical yield figure of 11.52% a year is the 
one that was important in determining whether his pension might be worth more or less by 
transferring. 
The advice Mr B was given was during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service 
was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The critical yield of 11.52% seems too high when compared with the discount rate of 4.7% 
per year for 13 years to retirement in this case. There were also industry standard projection 
rates that Portal could have used in their suitability report. At the time these were 2% for a 
lower projection, 5% for a medium projection and 8% as an upper rate projection. None of 
which made the critical yield look achievable for a balanced risk investor.
Put in simple terms, it was extremely unlikely that transferring the CETV from Mr Bs OPS 
would ever give high enough investment returns to produce a pension that was as valuable 
as the one he was giving up. I say this because Mr B had been assessed as having a 
balanced attitude to risk. But I think his capacity for loss for his pension was very low. He 
was out of work with no indication that hed be in a position to contribute anything further 
towards his pension. He had no other savings or assets to use to fund his retirement, so any 
loss in the value of this pension would impact his retirement in a way he wouldnt be able to 
recover from. He just wasnt in a position to take the kind of investment risk needed to get 
near to the critical yield figure.The suitability report stated that a reason for the transfer being suitable was increased 
pension benefits. It said, we believe a transfer is likely to result in increased pension 
benefits on a like for like basis with your scheme. But for the reason Ive given I dont think 
this was a fair conclusion for Portal to make. The critical yield meant that the opposite of this 
was more likely true.
Portal chose instead to down play the relevance of the critical yield and instead focus on the 
Lifetime Hurdle Rate (LHR) which they gave as 6.55%. They described the LHR as the 
annual investment return needed on Mr Bs CETV to maintain his OPS benefits until age 90. 
That figure was subject to Mr B taking a drawdown income equivalent to his OPS pension. 
His OPS benefits guaranteed an income for life and provided a spouses benefit in the event 
of his death. This figure just didnt provide Mr B the direct comparison with the benefits he 
was giving up, that Portal were responsible for providing him with.
In any case, the LHR of 6.55% was still higher than the discount rate of 4.7% which Ive 
explained I consider to be the reasonably achievable growth rate. And the LHR was higher 
than the medium industry projection rate of 5%. For Mr Bs attitude to risk, and low capacity 
for loss I dont think a transfer was likely to provide a higher return than the LHR either.
Portal didnt choose to use the industry projections for low, medium and high returns in 
assessing the likelihood of achieving the necessary returns. Instead they quoted estimated 
future investment returns of 6.69%. But Ive not seen sufficient explanation to justify why 
they considered that Mr B as a balanced risk investor could take sufficient investment risk to 
see returns that much above the medium rate projection or the discount rate. 
For these reasons, whilst I dont think it was reasonable of Portal to disregard the importance 
of the critical yield, I still dont think their hurdle rate provided enough reason to suggest that 
Mr B would improve the value of his pension benefits by transferring. And Portal should have 
made him aware of that in their suitability report. On the basis of this they should have been 
recommending Mr B retain his deferred OPS benefits.
So Ive also considered whether the other reasons that Portal said supported the transfer 
made their advice suitable for Mr B regardless of the likelihood of being unable to match the 
value of the benefits given up.
The fact find Portal have shown us indicates that Mr B wanted to release cash from his 
pension as early as possible. And that Mr B wanted to pay off his mortgage early. Ive not 
seen anything in Portals fact find that explored Mr Bs options for repaying his mortgage 
though. His mortgage was an interest only mortgage and the report estimated that about 
£30,000 was needed to repay the capital. But Portal didnt document when the capital 
repayment was due or whether Mr B had any other plan to repay that. Theres also no 
evidence of any exploration of any other reasons that Mr B wanted or needed to release 
money from his pension.
The suitability report referred to the other benefits and restrictions of Mr Bs OPS. It 
suggested that Mr B was unable to take tax free cash from the OPS until age 65. But this 
wasnt what Portal had been told by the scheme. It was inaccurate and could have led Mr B 
to think that the only way to access a tax free lump sum at 55 was by transferring his OPS. 
Which wasnt the case. Mr B could in fact take benefits from OPS at 55. Including the option 
to take tax free cash of £39,028. This may have been less than would have become 
available following a transfer but was still enough if the objective was to raise £30,000 to pay 
the mortgage early. So I dont think that the objective of releasing money made the transfer 
any more suitable.Portal also highlighted concerns over the viability of Mr Bs OPS. They pointed out that the 
scheme was under-funded. Which did seem to be the case. They indicated that it was an 
objective of Mr Bs to come away from that scheme because of it. But Im not sure that was 
actually an objective that Mr B had prior to speaking to Portal. I say this because the 
suitability report documented of Mr B, you expressed the view that you believed the scheme 
[ceding OPS] to be reasonably financially secure and that this was not of major concern to 
you, although you did ask us to comment on this. As previously explained to you, this 
scheme is a statutory scheme which is fully funded by an arm of the UK government. The 
suitability report ultimately rated the risk from the OPSs under-funding as very low. Mr Bs 
scheme had expressed the intention to reduce its funding shortfall. I think that Portal were 
correct in assessing any risk of the OPS failing as being low. So I dont agree that scheme 
security was a significant reason to support a recommendation to transfer out of the OPS.
Portals suitability report suggested that the ownership and control offered by transferring, as 
well as consolidation of Mr Bs pensions, were another reason that made their 
recommendation suitable. I can see that a transfer to a personal pension plan would provide 
Mr B with ownership of the assets of his pensions. But the information that Portal have 
provided doesnt indicate that Mr B was a sophisticated investor. They documented no 
history of investment experience for Mr B. So I dont think its more likely than not, that taking 
an active role in the decision making regarding his investments, would have been one of his 
overriding objectives. And whilst the transfer created the option of moving both of his 
pensions into the same pot, Im not sure there were significant benefits to Mr B of that. Or 
whether it could be considered an objective that would have warranted the risk of 
transferring from his OPS.
Portal documented one of Mr Bs objectives as passing his benefits to his family. While its 
reasonable that Mr B should want to leave as much money to his spouse and children as 
possible, long-term security in retirement should not be sacrificed in order to provide a 
notional benefit for an event that may not occur for decades. If Mr B was genuinely 
concerned about providing a benefit to his family in the event of death, I wouldve expected 
Portal to explore other options, such as life assurance, to meet this need rather than place 
his retirement benefits at risk.
Mr Bs children werent financially dependent on him. And his deferred OPS benefits 
provided a spouses pension for his wife. Overall, I havent seen evidence that providing 
death benefits in the form of a cash lump sum was more important to Mr B than being able to 
get an income from his pension. So didnt make the transfer a suitable recommendation.
For the above reasons I dont think that Portals recommendation was suitable for Mr B. The 
critical yield meant that it was unlikely he would be able to match, let alone exceed the 
guaranteed benefits hes given up by transferring. I think its more likely than not, that if 
Portal had instead recommended that Mr B keep his deferred benefits with his OPS, he 
would have done that. Had he wanted to release money early he could have taken the lump 
sum available to him at 55 from his scheme anyway. This would have meant taking the 
reduced income from 55 too. But I cant see that this would have been unsuitable. The 
reduction in annual income is not a reflection of a reduction in the pensions value. Its an 
actuarial reduction made in order to reflect the fact that the pension will be in payment for ten 
years more than would normally be the case. This income may well have been of benefit to 
Mr B anyway as he wasnt working at the time.
I will now consider the suitability of switching Mr Bs PPP to the SIPP. The suitability report 
that Portal prepared offers very little insight into why this pension switch was suitable other 
than it allowed the consolidation of Mr Bs pensions. For the reasons Ive given I dont think 
the advice to transfer Mr Bs OPS benefits was suitable though. So consolidation shouldnt have been a reason to switch Mr Bs PPP. 
The lack of attention given to the switch of Mr Bs PPP means its not clear that the way the 
funds were invested within it werent already suitable. Our investigator questioned whether 
the costs of being in the SIPP would be higher than in the personal pension that Mr B 
already had. 
In response to that Portal have provided evidence to suggest that the fees would be lower as 
a result of their recommended transfer. Mr Bs PPP had fees of 1% compared to 0.5% a year 
in the SIPP. Portal provided a projection over the 13 years to retirement. That factored in 
their initial 5% fee to show that contributed an additional 0.385% a year over that period. 
Which they say meant the fee would average 0.885% a year by transferring compared with 
1% a year by remaining. 
The suitability report indicated that the SIPP provider charged an initial fee of £180. Which 
was about 1.12% of the transfer value. This wasnt factored into the comparison. And the 
suitability report indicated that Portal would charge an ongoing adviser fee of 1% a year. So 
Portals recommendation was likely to mean fees of 1.5% a year overall being applied to 
Mr Bs SIPP compared to 1% on his pension plan. Plus the initial charges. So I dont think 
that Portals recommendation to switch from the personal pension was suitable. I dont think 
it offered any tangible benefit for Mr B but exposed him to potentially higher fees overall.
Putting things right
For the OPS transfer:
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he wouldve 
remained in the OPS. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
For the personal pension switch:
My aim is to put Mr B as close as possible into the position he would probably now be in if he 
had been given suitable advice. For the above reasons, I think Mr B would have left his PPP 
where it was. Which was in a Group Stakeholder Pension Plan, invested in the FL 
BlackRock 50:50 Global Equity Index Aquila HP AP fund. Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr Bs circumstances and objectives.
To compensate Mr B fairly for switching his PPP Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mr B's SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr B's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused the uncertainty regarding 
his income in retirement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From
(start date)To
(end date)Additional
 interestSIPP Still exists FL 
BlackRock 
50:50 
Global 
Equity 
Index 
Aquila HP 
APDate of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from the 
date of decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of business 
being notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value - This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value - This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Overall redress:
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Portal to pay Mr B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above for both pensions, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal to 
pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal to pay 
Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Portal. My recommendation is 
not binding on Portal. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out for the OPS transfer and the Personal Pension switch.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculations to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman