DRN-3884306
The complaint
Mr G complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUIC) unfairly declined 
a claim he made following the theft of his car and voided his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G insured his car with AAUIC. When the car was stolen, he made a claim on his policy.
After making enquiries, AAUIC declined cover for the claim and voided Mr Gs policy. It said 
hed failed, when the policy was renewed, to declare a speeding conviction. If hed done so, 
it said it wouldnt have sold the policy. 
Mr G complained to AAUIC and when it rejected that complaint, approached our service. Our 
investigator thought AAUIC had acted reasonably when it declined cover for the claim as it 
was entitled to void the policy. He did conclude however that the refund provided to Mr G 
following the voidance had been calculated incorrectly.
Mr G didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AAUIC says Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
renewed the policy. It says he was sent information when the policy was due for renewal 
which required him to check and update the details of any motoring convictions.
When Mr G initially took out the policy, he correctly declared that he hadnt received any 
speeding convictions in the previous five years. The policy he made a claim on, and which 
has been voided by AAUIC was a renewal. For the purposes of CIDRA, this is treated as a 
new contract of insurance and Mr G has a duty not to make any representation if, when the 
policy is renewed.
Ive looked at the documentation sent to Mr G before the policy was renewed. The renewal 
invitation outlines what it calls three simple checks which Mr G needs to make. One of 
these is Check that we have accurate and up-to-date information  its important all the 
details we hold about you and your cover are correct. 
Later in the same document, in the section headed Important renewal information, it says 
Please check the enclosed Statement of Insurance and let us know as soon as possible if 
you need to make a change to your cover or if your details are incorrect or missing. Failure 
to do so may result in your insurance being cancelled or a claim not being paid.
Ive looked at the Statement of Insurance sent to Mr G with the renewal invitation. This asks 
Have you or any person who will drive ever been convicted (or have any pending 
prosecutions) for motoring convictions or received any endorsable fixed penalty notices  in 
the last 5 years? The answer given for Mr G is No.
On the renewal invitation, and documents sent to Mr G, Im therefore satisfied that he was 
made aware of the need to check that the information was correct. He doesnt seem to 
dispute that hed received a speeding conviction. Theres no doubt that the answer to the 
above question was actually Yes, and so Mr G should have contacted AAUIC prior to the 
policy renewal to inform them of this. By not doing so, Im satisfied he failed to take 
reasonable care and this failure amounts to a misrepresentation.
AAUIC has provided us with a copy of the relevant underwriting criteria. This confirms that if 
the speeding conviction had been disclosed as it should have been, it wouldnt have offered 
the renewal. This is commercially sensitive information and not publicly available but Im 
satisfied based on this that if Mr G had contacted AAUIC after he received the renewal 
invitation, he would have been told the policy he held couldnt be renewed.
This means Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
AAUIC has agreed that Mr Gs misrepresentation was careless, as opposed to deliberate or 
reckless. I agree with this. It would seem to have arisen because he hasnt taken reasonable 
care to ensure the information on the Statement of Insurance was accurate, but his actions 
in not disclosing the speeding conviction couldnt be considered deliberate or reckless.
As Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation should be treated as a careless misrepresentation, 
Ive looked at the actions AAUIC can take in accordance with CIDRA.
AAUIC has declined cover for Mr Gs claim, and voided the policy. This is what CIDRA says 
it can do. Where an insurer wouldnt have offered cover without the misrepresentation 
having occurred, the policy is effectively considered to have never existed and so any claim 
made on the policy wont be covered.
I know Mr G has said that having checked price comparison tools, he believes AAUIC would 
have sold a policy to him if the speeding conviction had been declared. Whether this is the 
case isnt relevant to my decision. Im satisfied that AAUIC has demonstrated that the 
specific policy Mr G held wouldnt have been offered if the speeding conviction had been 
correctly disclosed.
In correspondence with Mr G, AAUIC has said it voided the policy back to the date of 
renewal. This is what CIDRA says it should do. However, the refund it issued was for the 
unused portion of the policy (ie from the date of the theft to the expiry date). This isnt 
correct. Where a policy has been voided back to inception, and is treated as if didnt exist, 
the full amount of the premium should be returned to the policyholder.I conclude that AAUICs actions in declining cover for the claim and voiding the policy were 
fair. However, the refund it issued wasnt reasonable. It should have refunded the full 
premium amount when it told Mr G the policy was being voided. 
To put things right, AAUIC must refund the full premium paid by Mr G. It also needs to pay 
8% simple interest on that amount from the date it informed him the policy was being voided 
to the date of settlement. This is because he should have been in receipt of those funds from 
that date and where a payment to a policyholder is unreasonably delayed, we expect an 
insurer to pay interest on those amounts.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. While the claim was declined fairly 
and AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited acted reasonably in voiding the policy, the 
refund its offered to date was incorrect.
To put things right, AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must refund the full 
premium paid by Mr G. It must also pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date it informed 
Mr G the policy was being voided to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman