DRN-3554525
The complaint
Mrs O disputes multiple transactions which were carried out on her account using different 
debit cards. Mrs O says HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund the transactions as she did not 
make them. 
Mrs O brings the complaint via a representative. To keep things simple, although 
submissions are made by Mrs Os representative on her behalf, I will only refer to Mrs O 
throughout the complaint. 
Background
Our investigator covered the background to this complaint in some detail, so I find no need 
to repeat everything again here. I will instead provide a brief summary and focus on the 
arguments made to date.
Mrs O first contacted HSBC in March 2021 about an unauthorised transaction on her 
account from February 2021. HSBC looked into this and provided Mrs O with a refund. 
Mrs O was issued a new card. Mrs O contacted HSBC again at the end of March 2021 as 
she noted further unauthorised transactions on her account to the same merchant. Mrs O 
says she did not authorise these. HSBC refunded these transactions to Mrs O and a new 
card was issued.
At the end of June 2021 Mrs O contacted HSBC again to report multiple unauthorised 
transactions which took place on her account (using card ending 7174) between April to July 
2021. The transactions were all to the same merchant as the February and March 
transactions. Two further transactions which took place in July 2021 to the same merchant, 
on another card (ending in 2005), were also disputed by Mrs O.
HSBC reviewed the transactions and explained it would not be refunding them as the 
evidence suggested Mrs O should be liable for them. It explained:
A transaction made in July 2021 was verified using a onetime passcode which was 
sent to Mrs Os mobile number. The transaction would not have been able to be 
made without the password being entered. 
The transactions were made over multiple debit cards. HSBC says it has concerns as 
to how a third-party fraudster would know about the new card being issued. It says it 
hasnt identified any point of compromise for the cards used.
The transactions took place over many months. If a third-party fraudster had access 
to Mrs Os cards it wouldve expected the activity to be more frequent.
No further attempts to carry out transactions were made once the card was 
cancelled. A third party would not have known about cancellation. 
Mrs O hasnt said anything about a third party accessing her cards or any suspicious 
contacts.
As Mrs O had previously been a victim of fraud, she says HSBC shouldve done more to 
stop these transactions. Mrs O has explained her son, who she is a carer for and resides 
with her was also a victim of fraud a few years before. She says she has suffered extreme 
anxiety as a result of the loss of funds and has had to borrow money from family to cover the 
£3,000 that has been taken from her. 
As Mrs O remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our service. An adjudicator 
reviewed the available evidence and upheld Mrs Os complaint. In summary, they made the 
following findings:
HSBC hasnt been able to show that Mrs O authorised the transactions. HSBCs 
refence to an unknown third party doesnt take into account the possibility the 
transactions took place by a known party but were nonetheless unauthorised. 
Mrs O says she didnt use her card to make online purchases. 
The third party was able to access Mrs Os card multiple times, which means its a 
possibility they could also access Mrs Os phone which was sent the one time 
passcode. 
The fact Mrs Os son was a victim of fraud and resides at the same address is 
relevant.
Mrs O should have been given more guidance in early 2021 to help her protect her 
account given the history of fraudulent activity. 
HSBC identified 26 transactions to the same merchant which Mrs O says were 
unauthorised. However, looking at the statements there were many more than this. 
All the transactions were to the same merchant. The adjudicator said all of these 
transactions should be considered, including one from April 2021 which was also 
made online but to a different merchant. 
The adjudicator said a fair outcome would be for HSBC to refund the transactions 
Mrs O says she didnt authorise, and to pay her £500 in recognition of the distress 
caused to her by HSBCs handling of the complaint. 
HSBC did not agree with the adjudicators review. It reiterated its main reasons for defending 
its position, as outlined above, and also added the following: 
The one time passcode was valid for ten minutes which means the third party would 
need to be with the customer whilst making the transaction. 
Mrs O says she does not use the card online, but there is a non-disputed online 
transaction on her account which demonstrates an online presence.
The fact Mrs Os son, who resides with Mrs O has also been a victim of fraud is 
irrelevant. The fraud that occurred on his account was online, and not using debit 
cards.
As HSBC did not agree with the adjudicators review, the case has been passed to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mrs O is liable for 
transactions she has authorised  either by carrying them out herself or giving permission for 
another party to carry them out on her behalf. The PSRs 2017 also set out that where a 
payment isnt authorised by the account holder, they may still be liable for it if theyve failed 
with intent or gross negligence to adhere to the terms of their account or keep their 
personalised security credentials safe. It isnt in dispute that Mrs Os genuine card details were used in order for the disputed 
transaction to take place. So Im satisfied the payments were authenticated in line with what 
the PSRs say. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable HSBC to hold Mrs O liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not Mrs O consented to the transactions being made.
HSBC has provided copies of Mrs Os statements. It is clear from looking at these that the 
transactions Mrs O says she didnt authorise arent in keeping with the normal spending on 
the account. Mrs O has also told us she doesnt use her account for online spending. It is 
unfortunate in Mrs Os case that there isnt much information available regarding the devices 
used to make the disputed transactions. There also isnt any information regarding IP 
addresses for them. But I think its important to consider the nature of the transactions and 
the fact that Mrs O has on every occasion, reported them as soon as she noticed them on 
her statements. 
HSBC has also relied on the pattern of the transactions and the fact a third-party fraudster 
would not have known when the cards would have been cancelled and issued. It also says 
the pattern of the transactions isnt in keeping with third party fraud as they are so spread 
out. Ive carefully considered these points, but I dont think they show Mrs O consented to 
the payments. HSBCs approach has been focused on how an unknown third party may 
have accessed the cards. Especially as Mrs O hasnt told us of any suspicious contacts. 
However, based on what we see in fraud cases like Mrs Os, where there is intermittent, but 
persistent unauthorised use of a card, and the card holder is still in possession of the card, it 
can often be a known party that is committing the fraud. In Mrs Os case she has confirmed 
she has visitors to her home. So, although she says she took steps to safeguard her card, by 
keeping it secure in her purse there would still have been opportunities for the card to be 
accessed.
Similarly, its possible that both Mrs Os card and phone couldve been accessed. HSBC 
says the one time passcode was valid for ten minutes. The transaction wouldve needed to 
be made with access to both the card and the phone. I think if a third-party fraudster was 
able to access Mrs Os card on multiple occasions, its also plausible they wouldve been 
able to access her phone in a similar way. HSBC has said that the one-time passcode was 
only required for one transaction. All the others were able to be processed without this extra 
security step. 
It is also important to remember that it is not the role of our service to determine who carried 
out the transactions. It is for us to consider, whether based on the evidence, its most likely 
Mrs O consented to the transactions. Based on what I have seen, I dont think its 
reasonable for HSBC to have concluded that Mrs O consented to the transactions.  
I can also see Mrs O is unhappy the number of transactions were allowed to go through on 
her account, especially given her previous account history with unauthorised transactions. 
Looking at the account history, and Mrs Os circumstances, I am not persuaded that it was 
reasonable for HSBC to allow multiple payments to go through to the same merchant, 
without taking further steps to ensure Mrs O wasnt at risk from further fraud. 
I say this because HSBC agreed the transactions from February and March were 
unauthorised and Mrs O was issued with new a new debit card four times in the space of six 
months due to unauthorised transactions. As already mentioned, all the transactions were to 
the same merchant and not in keeping with the normal activity on Mrs Os account. In June 
alone there were around 30 payments to this merchant. Given HSBC had identified earlier 
activity as fraudulent, it is not unreasonable to expect HSBCs checks to respond proportionately to the ongoing risk of fraud. I also think HSBC shouldve taken pro-active 
steps to assist Mrs O with protecting her card and account in early 2021. 
Having considered all the evidence and on balance, I dont find theres enough to show 
Mrs O authorised these transactions. It then follows that I am not persuaded that it is fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to hold Mrs O liable for these disputed payments.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I direct HSBC to:
Refund all the payments made to the merchant in question using cards ending 
****7174 and ****2005.
Refund the payment made of £208.99 to Mytrip dated 28 April 2021
pay 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the payments were made until the
date of settlement).
Pay Mrs O £500 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused by the loss 
of funds. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman