DRN-2899953
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) dealt with matters when his car finance agreement ended early. 
What happened
In February 2010, Mr C entered into a car finance agreement with VWFS. However due to a 
change in his personal circumstances, he decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) the 
agreement in February 2011. In order to do so, he returned the car and he was told he had 
to pay around £8,300 plus £800 in arrears in order to pay half of the total amount payable. 
Based on what he could afford, it was agreed he would pay £35 per month for six months in 
order to start paying off the balance. Mr C paid this amount each month and the 
arrangement continued for several years. 
In August 2018 when applying for a mortgage, Mr C discovered adverse information was 
recording about this agreement on his credit file and he was advised to get it corrected. Mr C 
complained to VWFS, they said as there was still an outstanding balance of £5,393, which 
equated to over six months arrears, his credit report would show six months late payment 
markers. Based on the guidance published by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), 
Mr C said VWFS shouldve defaulted the account in 2011. He said had they done so, it 
wouldve been removed from his credit file around 2017 as more than six years had passed. 
VWFS agreed to delete the record of the agreement from his credit file. 
However within a short time thereafter, Mr C said it was reporting again. VWFS apologised 
but said as there was an outstanding balance, this would automatically report to the credit 
reference agencies (CRA). They agreed to monitor his credit file on a monthly basis and 
remove any adverse information.
Unhappy with their response, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They said VWFS should pay £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by the adverse information continuing to report on his credit file 
despite telling him the agreement would be removed entirely. They also recommended 
VWFS find a long term solution to prevent this situation happening in the future. Both parties 
agreed and the case was closed in July 2020.
However within weeks of the case closing, Mr C told our service that the situation remained 
unchanged, the agreement and adverse information continued to report on his credit file. 
The investigator reached a second opinion. They recommended the case was upheld and 
said VWFS shouldve defaulted the account in November 2011 as it was clear Mr C couldnt 
pay the balance. They considered £35 per month was a token payment and if this 
arrangement continued it would take many years to repay the debt thereby negatively 
impacting Mr Cs credit file. The investigator awarded a further £300 compensation.
VWFS said even if they had defaulted the account as there was still an outstanding balance, 
this would continue to report to the CRAs. They said it was a mistake agreeing to remove the 
agreement from the credit file in 2018 but as they had previously done so, they would honour 
this. They said as Mr C wasnt willing to review the repayment arrangement, it would add to 
the time for the balance to be paid. Until that time comes, they will continue to remove the 
adverse information on a monthly basis. They agreed to pay the additional £300 
compensation but suggested it was put towards the debt in order to reduce it. 
Mr C was unhappy with this as it didnt resolve the issue of the agreement and adverse 
information reporting. He provided several copies of his credit report showing it continued to 
report and on many occasions with late payment markers.
There has been much back and forth between our service and VWFS about this complaint. 
I explained to them I agreed with the investigator that the account shouldve been defaulted 
in 2011 meaning it wouldve remained on Mr Cs credit file for six years before being 
removed in 2017. However I accepted as there was still an outstanding balance, this still 
needed to be paid. I asked VWFS whether it would be possible to mark the agreement as 
being settled and set up a new one for him to pay the outstanding balance. VWFS said his 
wouldnt be possible.
In October 2020, I sent both parties my provisional findings. I referred VWFS to the website 
of one of the main CRAs which said: 
A default will stay on your credit file for six years from the date of default, regardless of 
whether you pay off the debt. But the good news is that once your default is removed, the 
lender wont be able to re-register it, even if you still owe them money.
I also referred to the website of a debt charity which said:
After six years, the defaulted debt will be removed from your credit file, even if you havent 
finished paying it off
I maintained the account shouldve been defaulted in November 2011 and as its been more 
than six years, it should be removed entirely from Mr Cs credit file. I said as VWFS are 
unable to provide a suitable solution to achieve this and to stop the agreement and adverse 
information from reporting, they should write off the debt with nothing further for Mr C to pay. 
I stressed this wasnt the ordinary action I would recommend because I agreed Mr C should 
pay the outstanding balance therefore asking VWFS to write it off was exceptional.
Mr C agreed and said the situation had impacted him financially. He said due to this situation 
it restricted his options for getting a mortgage meaning hes having to pay more. VWFS 
disagreed. They said the record of the default itself wouldve been removed after six years 
not the agreement as a whole so theyre entitled to report the adverse information as there is 
an outstanding balance. 
I disagreed with VWFS position and in further conversations I advised in addition to the 
ICOs guidance about the reporting of arrears, I had also taken into account the guidance 
published by the Steering Committee of Reciprocity (SCOR). This is a cross industry forum 
made up of representatives from credit industry associations and credit reference agencies.
In regards to the reporting of arrears, both ICO and SCORs guidance say this should only 
be recorded for a maximum of six months by which time its expected the account would be 
defaulted. I stressed the guidance doesnt say the arrears can continue to report even after 
the account has been defaulted for more than six years. Moreover, I explained when I think 
about the intention behind both sets of guidance, I think its fair to say the broader intention 
was to avoid individuals being penalised or unduly burdened by a default and the related 
adverse information indefinitely. For this reason, I maintained the entire record of the 
agreement should be removed from Mr Cs credit file so adverse information wouldnt report.Both ICO and SCORs guidance refer to what happens if there is a permanent change in the
payment terms. ICOs guidance says Should a permanent change in the payment terms be
agreed by the lender, there will normally be a new agreement signed and the revised terms 
will be reported going forward.
In this case, I explained given Mr C has been paying £35 a month for the last ten years, I 
think its fair to say this is a permanent change in the payment terms. So I think the above 
should apply and a new agreement should be set up and the performance recorded against 
that rather than the original debt.
In response, VWFS said they were willing to do the following:
- Mark the agreement as settled with a zero balance for November 2017;
- Transfer the debt to a third party debt collection agency who will manage the debt 
moving forward;
- Pay £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr C was concerned if the account is transferred to a debt collection agency it would be 
recorded again on his credit file. He believed the account should be shown as settled in 
2017 which is six years after the account shouldve defaulted. He also explained the impact 
on him has been significant as hes spent the last few years trying to get this matter 
resolved. He said it has cost him at least £12,000 on his mortgage alone as he had to pay a 
higher interest rate and its also impacted on other financial products like credit cards. He 
expressed the situation has caused considerable trouble and upset and the additional £400 
compensation isnt enough in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this as this reflects the nature of our 
service as an informal alternative to the courts. 
Financial difficulty
From my understanding, due to Mr C losing his employment he was unable to afford the 
contractual payments as required under the finance agreement. In circumstances of financial 
difficulty, the relevant guidance at the time expected financial businesses, such as VWFS, to 
treat the consumer positively and sympathetically based on the individuals circumstances. 
In this case, limited information is available due to the amount of time that has passed but it 
would appear one of VWFS measures to support Mr C during that time was to end the 
agreement early by VT in April 2011. In absence of evidence to show the contrary, I believe 
this is most likely to have been the most cost effective option for Mr C as he was required to 
return the car and paying half of the total amount payable under the agreement.
Thereafter, VWFS agreed to set up a repayment plan based on what Mr C could afford, 
which was £35 per month for six months. I believe this was another example of VWFS 
attempts to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically. Overall I believe VWFS acted fairly 
during Mr Cs time of financial difficulty in 2011 by allowing the VT rather than letting the 
arrears accumulate and they set up a suitable repayment plan based on his affordability.
Recording a defaultThe ICO guidelines outlines when an account should be defaulted including where only 
token payments are paid.
The SCORS guidance supports the same and says the following:
If the payment is at a level that represents only a token sum in repayment because that is 
all the customer can afford, the account should be recorded as a default. The record will be 
removed six years from the date of the default. An example of calculating whether a token 
payment is acceptable, would be to assess whether it would take longer than 6 years for the 
debt to be repaid should the consumer continue to pay at that level.
In this case, I consider the repayment of £35 per month to be token payments therefore in 
line with the ICO and SCORs guidance, I believe VWFS shouldve defaulted the account in 
November 2011 after the initial six months of these payments. I say this because it wouldve 
been clear Mr C wasnt in a position to pay the balance in a reasonable amount of time. Had 
VWFS defaulted the account in November 2011, it wouldve remained on his credit file for six 
years before being removed around November 2017. As this didnt happen, it has led to 
adverse information reporting on Mr Cs credit file in excess of six years. This means Mr C 
has been disadvantaged and hes in worse position than someone who had made no effort 
to pay which goes against the ICO guidance therefore I dont consider this to be fair.
However its worth highlighting just because a default is removed after six years, it doesnt 
mean VWFS are no longer entitled to recover the debt. As there is still an outstanding 
balance, I believe this should be repaid by Mr C and he also accepts this.  
While I acknowledge VWFS efforts to update Mr Cs credit file on a monthly basis in order to 
remove the adverse information, this goes against what they originally agreed in 2018 which 
was to remove it entirely. Its also not a long term or sustainable solution. This requires 
manual human intervention on a monthly basis across different CRAs and it its susceptible 
to human error. In this case, thats what happened, some markers were removed, some 
werent and the agreement wasnt being reported in a consistent manner, at times it showed 
as being active with late payment markers, other times it showed it was closed. Meanwhile 
this was having an impact on Mr Cs credit file so I can understand his upset and frustration 
about this especially as its been going on for a considerable amount of time.
Taking everything into account, I believe VWFS proposed resolution is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Its not in dispute the balance has to be paid but the key concern was 
the reporting of the adverse information and the impact it was having on Mr Cs credit file. By 
VWFS agreeing to mark this agreement as being settled with a zero balance in November 
2017 means this agreement will no longer report to his credit file. 
Equally, VWFS are entitled to transfer the account to a debt collection agency to recover the 
debt. This agency will set up a suitable repayment arrangement based on Mr Cs affordability 
in order to repay the outstanding balance. I believe this is a fair course of action. Neither I or 
VWFS can comment on what the debt collection agency will do exactly as they will be 
responsible for managing the outstanding debt moving forward. This will need to be 
discussed between Mr C and the debt collection agency directly. In the event, Mr C accepts 
this decision, I strongly encourage him to do so. Once a repayment plan is set up, the debt 
collection agency is likely to record it on Mr Cs credit file however any reporting will relate to 
the payments of that agreement, not the original one with VWFS. For the reasons outlined 
above, I believe this is fair.  
Having carefully considered what Mr C has said, I understand why he feels strongly about 
this matter especially as its been going on for such a long time. Hes explained it has 
negatively impacted on his ability to get credit and he has been offered financial products on 
less favourable terms such as higher interest rates on his mortgage. He believes VWFS should compensate him for this.  However in order to award such compensation, I must be 
satisfied that it was a direct result of the business failing. In this case, that would mean I 
would need to be satisfied had it not been for VWFS failing to default the account in 2011, 
meaning it wouldve removed in 2017, Mr C wouldve obtained credit on more favourable 
terms for example at lower interest rates.
Theres insufficient evidence for me to reasonably say thats what happened here. While I 
accept Mr Cs credit score is most likely to have been impacted, I cant say with any certainty 
this was the only reason for the terms of the credit provided. For example, I havent seen any 
evidence to show Mr C couldve been offered a mortgage on more favourable terms had it 
not been for this situation. I also note at the time of applying for a mortgage in 2018, VWFS 
did remove the agreement from his credit file. 
The decision to lend, is a commercial one made by a financial business and while an 
individuals credit score will undoubtedly be a consideration, there are many other factors 
that are taken into account. On this basis, I wont be asking VWFS to compensate him for 
this.  
However I cant ignore everything thats happened including whats gone on after VWFS 
accepted the investigators opinions in 2020. I accept there has been an impact on Mr C and 
this can be seen in his level of communication with our service. This includes being told the 
agreement would be removed from his credit file but it keeps re-appearing, adverse 
information recorded on his credit file over an extended period of time and the amount of 
time and effort it has taken to try to get this matter resolved. 
The investigator has already awarded £300 compensation and from my understanding this 
has already been paid. However in light of the further trouble and upset caused as outlined 
above, I believe VWFS should pay an additional £400 compensation, thus a total of £700 
compensation.
Summary
Overall, while I recognise VWFS efforts to support Mr C during his time of financial difficulty 
in 2011, I believe it wouldve been fair to have defaulted the account in November 2011 in 
line with the ICO guidelines. 
As this didnt happen and they didnt sufficiently review the ongoing repayment arrangement, 
nor explain to Mr C how this would impact his credit file for years to come has caused 
considerable trouble and upset. 
In order to stop the agreement and adverse information from reporting on Mr Cs credit file 
whilst he continues to pay the outstanding balance, I believe VWFS proposed resolution is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services should:
-Mark the agreement as being settled with a zero balance for November 2017;
-Arrange for the debt to be transferred a debt collection agency and for a suitable 
repayment plan to be set up based on Mr Cs affordability;-Pay a further £400 compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset caused (this is in 
addition to the £300 compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman