DRN-4206239
The complaint
Mr C complains that a business which is now part of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) gave him unsuitable advice to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan in February 1995. Mr C feels that he shouldve been advised to 
choose the in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) option instead. 
Mr C is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
I understand that Mr C was a member of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) from 1 
January 1975. His employee contribution to the scheme was 6% of his pensionable 
earnings. I understand that Mr C had gaps in his pensionable service from 1 September 
2006 to 22 July 2007. And that he left the OPS on 31 August 2012. 
Mr C also contributed to his OPSs in-house AVC scheme. The in-house AVC provider 
confirmed to this service that he had begun to contribute to that scheme with effect from 
April 1992. It also said that his AVCs were paid up as an annuity with effect from December 
2009.
In February 1995, Mr C met with an Aviva tied adviser to discuss improving his pension 
benefits. Aviva completed a fact find, which Mr C signed on 6 March 1995. This noted the 
following about him:
He was 42 and in good health.
He was married with two dependent children.
He was employed, earning £29,625 a year.
He didnt expect to retire until age 60, which was also the normal retirement age in 
his OPS. Based on his service, he would have a shortfall on the maximum scheme 
benefits at age 60.
Mr C confirmed to the adviser that he was aware that he could pay AVCs into his 
OPS. He was already paying into the in-house AVC scheme and had been since 
1992.
Mr C wanted £14,812 annual income in retirement. His shortfall against this target was 
assessed as £1,502. The adviser recommended that Mr C started an FSAVC plan with a 17-
year term and a gross monthly contribution of £140. The fact find recorded that Mr C had an 
existing in-house AVC into which he was paying a gross monthly contribution of £48. The 
adviser recommended a gross monthly contribution into the FSAVC plan of £92 to fill the 
shortfall. But noted that Mr C wanted to invest a gross monthly contribution of £40.
I understand that Mr C made his first contribution to the FSAVC on 26 June 1995.And the 
last on 29 April 2003. And that Mr C took the benefits from his FSAVC on 13 August 2007.
Mr C said he hadnt become aware that he had cause for complaint until July 2022, when 
hed seen an advert online from his CMC. 
Mr C complained to Aviva through his CMC on 30 November 2022. He felt that the advice to 
take out the FSAVC in 1995, rather than going with the in-house AVC, was unsuitable. And 
that the FSAVC was unsuitable for him.
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 12 January 2023. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It considered that the advice had been suitable at the time. And that itd 
provided Mr C with enough information for him to make an informed decision.
Aviva said its adviser had completed a fact find which had identified that although Mr C was 
a member of his OPS, based on his length of service, he would have a shortfall on maximum 
benefits at the OPSs normal retirement age of 60. It said the fact find also noted that Mr C 
was aware he could pay in-house AVCs. And that had been doing so since 1992. 
Aviva said that the recommendations section of the fact find had stated the maximum Mr C 
was permitted to increase his contributions by. But that he was only prepared to pay gross 
monthly contributions of £40. It said that there was also a signed written statement in this 
section which said: I advised [Mr C] on 20.02.95 to investigate and compare costs and 
benefits of past added years and scheme AVC options. Having had the opportunity to do so, 
he now wishes to proceed with the [Aviva] contract.
Aviva also said that its adviser had provided an illustration which confirmed the benefits from 
Mr Cs existing plan and provided a breakdown of the shortfall. This stated: You have three 
options for increasing your main scheme pension. You can purchase added years, pay into 
the scheme AVC or pay into a free-standing AVC. You MUST consider all three options 
before making a choice. It also said that it had sent Mr C a letter confirming its 
recommendation, and that this had confirmed that hed been advised to investigate and 
compare the costs and benefits of the options offered by his OPS.
Aviva said that when Mr C had started his in-house AVC, details of the charges wouldve 
been provided. It also that itd advised him to investigate the costs of increasing his in-house 
contract before making his decision on which route to take to increase his pension 
contributions. So it felt it was fair to assume Mr C wouldve been aware in the difference in 
costs. 
Aviva also felt that as Mr C held other investments with it, he wouldve been aware of the 
potential greater returns from the FSAVC compared with the AVC, given the limited options 
with its provider. And that he wouldve been prepared to accept the difference in costs for the 
potential of greater returns over the longer term. It said that Mr C had received annual 
FSAVC statements. So he wouldve been able to compare these against those provided by 
the in-house AVC provider. And if he hadnt been satisfied with the returns on the FSAVC, it 
felt he wouldve complained, given hed taken the benefits in 2007. 
Unhappy, Mr C brought his complaint to this service through his CMC. It didnt consider that, 
as Mr C was already paying into the in-house AVC at the time of the advice, this meant he 
understood that this could be increased. It also didnt think that Mr C had been provided with 
details of the charges when he started the in-house AVC. If felt that Aviva had assumed in its 
final response letter that Mr C wouldve been aware of the difference in costs. But that it 
wouldve expected him to have been given a much clearer explanation of the difference in 
charges, given that the FSAVC charges were likely to be higher. And that if he had been, he 
wouldnt have chosen the more expensive FSAVC.The CMC said Mr C hadnt received specific financial advice to start the in-house AVC 
scheme. And that any information the in-house AVC provider had given him about it 
wouldve simply stated the options available. It felt it was more than likely that such 
information wouldnt have explained why the benefits would've been better than an FSAVC. 
Mr Cs CMC also didnt consider that Aviva had advised him to investigate the costs of 
increasing his in-house AVC before deciding which route to take to increase his pension 
contributions. It felt that although Aviva considered Mr C had been directed to his OPS to 
investigate his options, he wouldnt have fully understood the information that needed to be 
gathered. It also felt there was no evidence that any such information had been sought or 
received.
Our investigator first thought about whether this service could consider the complaint. Aviva 
hadnt given its consent to do so. As the advice had been provided more than six years ago, 
our investigator considered when he felt Mr C had become reasonably aware that he had 
cause for complaint. 
Our investigator considered the points Aviva had raised in its final response letter, but wasnt 
persuaded that Mr C had become aware that he had cause for complaint until July 2022, 
after he said hed seen an advert online from his CMC. So he felt that the complaint had 
been brought in time and that we could investigate the merits of it. 
Our investigator didnt think the merits of the complaint should be upheld. While he said he 
couldnt be certain why Mr C had chosen to contribute to the FSAVC, instead of increasing 
the payments to his existing in-house AVC, he felt Mr C was in an informed position when he 
made his decision. He was also satisfied that the adviser had provided sufficient information 
and followed the guidance at the time of the advice. 
Mr Cs CMC didnt agree with our investigator on the merits of the complaint. It said that 
when the FSAVC was sold in 1995, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in the 
1988 LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) Code. It felt that 
as well as highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, a tied adviser should mention the generic 
benefits of the in-house options, including that: 
Money purchase in-house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVCs 
Added years mightve been available under the OPS. And the consumers OPS 
employer might match or top-up the amount they paid into either in-house option.
The CMC acknowledged that the adviser had told Mr C to investigate and compare the 
costs and benefits of the past added years and scheme AVC options available from your 
current pensions scheme. And noted that hed: had an opportunity to do this before hed 
decided to proceed with the FSAVC. But it said there was no other evidence that showed the 
generic benefits were discussed, or that it was likely that an in-house AVC would be 
cheaper. It said it would expect to see that the adviser made some note on file or within the 
recommendations letter that the charges under both the FSAVC and the in-house AVC had 
been discussed, not just that theyd mentioned the in-house AVC existed.
The CMC felt that if this had been discussed in greater detail, Mr C wouldve been likely to 
have taken more time to consider what option wouldve worked best for him. And that he 
wouldve decided to take the in-house AVC option as it was likely that it offered him 
substantially the same product at a cheaper cost.
I asked our investigator to obtain copies of the historical FSAVC and AVC statements Mr C had been sent so I could see what charging information he had been provided with over the 
years. 
The in-house AVC provider told Mr C on 20 September 2023 that it couldnt provide 
historical annual benefit statements. And Aviva told this service on 27 September 2023 that 
it no longer held copies of the annual statements itd sent to Mr C. Im not surprised this is 
the case given how long Mr C took the benefits from these arrangements. But Ive been 
unable to confirm the information about the charges that Mr C wouldve been given over the 
years.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered whether the complaint was bought to this service in time. As Ive been 
unable to access copies of the historical FSAVC and AVC statements Mr C was sent over 
the years, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware that 
he may have cause for complaint before July 2022, when he said he saw an advert for his 
CMC. Mr C brought his complaint in November 2022, so I agree with our investigator that he 
the complaint was brought in time and that we can investigate the merits of it.
However, having considered those merits, Im not going to uphold the complaint. I consider 
that its more likely than not that Mr C was given sufficient information at the time of the 
advice to make an informed decision about starting the FSAVC. I know my decision will 
disappoint Mr C. Ill explain my reasons for it.
I first considered what the adviser was required to do at the time of the advice. 
What did the adviser need to do?
The in-house AVC was usually part of an OPS. The provider of the AVC was often a 
competing provider in the marketplace, so a tied adviser of the FSAVC provider wouldnt 
typically have investigated whether the in-house AVC option was better than the FSAVC  
they werent allowed to. They could only recommend the products provided by the company 
they were tied to.
I agree with Mr Cs CMC that at the time of the advice the tied adviser was required to follow 
rules set in the 1988 LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) 
Code. This said that advisers shouldve maintained high standards of integrity and fair 
dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take 
proper account of the interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an OPS, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
Wed expect tied advisers to have known that in-house AVC options might be available to 
the consumer. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, mention the generic 
benefits of the in-house options. These would include:Money purchase in-house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVC
Added years might be available under an OPS. 
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option
The tied adviser wouldnt need to know anything specific about the Mr Cs OPS to mention 
these things. But wed expect them to recommend that Mr C explored those options 
themselves with the OPS, before considering whether to take out an FSAVC.
Did the adviser meet the requirements?
Mr Cs CMC didnt consider that Mr C understood, at the time of the advice, that his in-house 
AVC contribution could be increased. It also felt that although the adviser had directed Mr C 
to his OPS to investigate his options, he wouldnt have fully understood the information he 
needed to get. It also felt there was no evidence that Mr C had in fact sought or received 
such information.
The advisor told Mr C he: MUST consider all three options, including paying into the 
scheme AVC, before making a choice. And the signed written statement noted that Mr C 
had been advised on 20 February 1995 to: investigate and compare costs and benefits of 
past added years and scheme AVC options. Mr C then decided that he would start an 
FSAVC on 6 March 1995, two weeks after hed been told he must consider all of his options. 
The Reasons Why letter that Aviva sent Mr C on 24 May 1995 also gave the following 
reason that the adviser had recommended the FSAVC plan:
When advising you to take out an FSAVC, I asked you on 20.02.95 to investigate and 
compare costs and benefits of the Past Added Years and Scheme AVC options available 
from your current pension scheme. Having had an opportunity to do this, you now wish to 
proceed with the [FSAVC] contract. 
I consider that the documentary evidence from around the time of the advice shows that Mr 
C was given a clear instruction, which I consider he wouldve followed, before deciding which 
option he wanted to take. And he was then given time to decide. I can also see that the 
adviser noted how much Mr C was paying into his in-house AVC at the time of the advice, 
and told him how much more he was entitled to contribute to his pension arrangements in 
total. I consider that its reasonable to assume that given Mr C had been told he had three 
options, including the in-house AVC, and that hed also been told how much more he could 
contribute in total to his pension arrangements, he wouldve understood that he could 
increase his contributions to his in-house AVCs. 
Therefore I consider that its reasonable to assume that Mr C did understand that he could 
increase the payments into his in-house AVC, but that he chose not to after looking into his 
options in more detail. 
Mr Cs CMC didnt feel that Mr C had been provided with details of the in-house AVC 
charges when hed started it. Nor had he received specific financial advice at that time. Mr 
Cs CMC said the only information hed been given had been about the options available. So 
it felt that the Aviva adviser shouldve given Mr C a much clearer explanation of the 
difference in charges, given that the FSAVC charges were likely to be higher than the in-
house AVC. It said if it had, Mr C wouldnt have chosen the more expensive FSAVC. 
Ive not been provided with any documentary evidence from the time Mr C started to contribute to his in-house AVC. So I cant know what he was or wasnt told at that time. But I 
can see that theres no charging information included in the FSAVC documentation Ive been 
provided with. So I understand why Mr C doesnt feel that Aviva gave him a clear enough 
explanation of the differences in charges at the time of the advice. 
The sale of the FSAVC took place almost 30 years ago. So its extremely difficult to know 
exactly what the adviser told Mr C about the difference in costs between the in-house AVC 
and the FSAVC. 
However, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the adviser took reasonable steps 
towards ensuring that Mr C had all of the information that he needed to be able to make an 
informed decision about his options. And then to make that choice about his additional 
pension provision. And although I cant be completely sure that the adviser did do enough to 
ensure that Mr C was aware that the FSAVC plan was likely to carry higher charges than the 
in-house AVC plan, on balance of probabilities, I think that he did. 
I say this because Mr C didnt finalise his decision to start the FSAVC plan in February 1995 
when he first met Avivas adviser. Instead, he did that two weeks later. And he didnt start 
contributing to the FSAVC plan until the end of June 1995, after hed received the Reasons 
Why letter. 
Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Mr C followed his advisers instructions to 
investigate and compare costs and benefits of the in-house options against those of the 
FSAVC. And that having done so, he decided to take out the FSAVC plan. I also consider 
that it wouldve been easier for Mr C to simply increase the contributions to his in-house AVC 
plan than to start a new FSAVC plan. This also persuades me that its more likely than not 
that after looking into the costs and benefits of the AVC plan against the FSAVC plan, Mr C 
made an informed decision to start the FSAVC plan. I cant say why he decided to do so, but 
its possible he felt that potentially better investment returns could outweigh the potentially 
higher costs.
I acknowledge that theres no documentary evidence that shows conclusively that the 
generic benefits of the in-house options were discussed, or that it was likely that an in-house 
AVC would be cheaper than the FSAVC. 
But from what Ive seen, the adviser told Mr C on 20 February 1995 to compare the costs 
and benefits of the in-house options with the FSAVC plan. Mr C was already contributing to 
the in-house AVC scheme, and had been for around three years at the time of the advice. 
So Im of the view that he wouldve already been in a somewhat informed position about the 
in-house AVC scheme. 
Im persuaded that the fact that the adviser told Mr C to compare costs and benefits is a 
strong indication that he discussed the potential cost differences between the in-house and 
FSAVC plans with him. Im also persuaded that theres clear evidence that Mr Cs 
circumstances were discussed and a thorough fact find was completed, including a note 
being taken of how much Mr C was already contributing to his in-house AVC, and how much 
more he was entitled to contribute in total. 
As such, Im persuaded that the adviser met all of the LAUTRO code requirements. And 
therefore I cant fairly or reasonably uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman