DRN-4013318
The complaint
Ms R complains that The Private Office Limited (TPO) failed to alert her to a tax liability she 
incurred in relation to her student loan when providing her with investment advice about 
bond encashment. 
What happened
In April 2021, Ms R approached TPO for financial advice. She held existing investments 
elsewhere and wanted to review her finances and explore options for maximising her capital. 
Ms R completed TPOs fact find document which asked questions about her financial 
situation and explored her investment needs and objectives. This was followed up with an 
online meeting with TPOs advisor who recommended, amongst other things, encashing 
investment bonds currently held by Ms R with a view to releasing some cash and moving the 
rest of the money to more tax efficient investments managed by TPO.
After acting on TPOs advice, Ms R was shocked to discover that she had incurred an 
additional amount of more than £5,000 on her annual tax bill as a result. 
TPO didnt agree it had done anything wrong or that Ms R had lost out in money terms. In 
brief summary, it said:
Ms R hadnt made the advisor aware of her student loan, despite being asked to 
provide information about loans and liabilities 
based on the information Ms R provided to TPO, its advice had been suitable 
Ms R hadnt incurred any additional tax as a result of acting on TPOs 
recommendations since the payment had gone towards paying off her student loan 
encashment of bonds was likely to happen at some point during Ms Rs working life 
and this would always have incurred a student loan repayment.   
When our investigator looked into Ms Rs complaint, she agreed with TPO that Ms R 
wasnt worse off financially as she was required to repay her student loan and she would 
now benefit from paying less interest overall as a result of making this lump sum payment 
as part of her tax return. But our investigator felt that TPO should have specifically checked 
whether Ms R had any student loans and its failure to do this caused Ms R considerable 
worry and inconvenience as she had no warning that her next tax bill would be 
approximately £5,000 more than she expected to pay. Our investigator felt that £500 was 
fair compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused as a result. 
Ms R said she was happy to accept the investigators findings and agreed with the 
outcome. TPO takes a different view. It mainly says:
TPO asked Ms R about loans and liabilities as part of its fact find so it would be 
reasonable to expect Ms R to have included information about her student loan and 
TPO wasnt responsible for the fact that she forgot to include it
TPO was entitled to rely on the information Ms R provided so her complaint 
shouldnt be upheld
in any event, £500 is a disproportionate amount of compensation and, in line with 
guidelines issued by us, an award here should not be more than £300. TPO 
referred to other settled complaints showing awards of up to £300 for trouble and 
upset.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the matter seems to me to be whether TPOs failure to have elicited information 
about Ms Rs student loan amounted to a service failing on the part of TPO and, if so, the 
extent to which this impacted on Ms R and what amount would be fair compensation. So this 
is the focus of my decision.
I find that Ms R was entitled to expect a better level of service from TPO than she 
experienced, for the following reasons.
Despite what TPO has said about student loans being essentially like any other loan, a 
student loan is unlike other loans in a number of key respects  it is paid to HM Revenue 
and Customs and collected through taxation with repayments deducted at source each 
month through the PAYE system. Repayment starts only after the students course ends and 
annual income exceeds the threshold set by the government. Crucially to my mind, Ms R 
doesnt have to actively do anything to make her monthly student loan repayment. So I can 
understand why Ms R might have either forgotten or not realised this was information that 
should have been included on the fact find.
TPOs questions about loans and liabilities make no specific reference to student loans. 
I dont think the wording or layout of the fact find was enough to have prompted Ms R to 
volunteer information about her student loan. I think its more likely she thought she was only 
being asked about things like credit card debt and other borrowing where she made monthly 
repayments to creditors.  
TPO however had an obligation to provide suitable advice to Ms R. This put the onus on 
TPO to think carefully about Ms Rs circumstances alongside her financial situation and it 
needed to ask appropriate questions. Irrespective of the fact that Ms R made no mention of 
a student loan on her fact find, this was something the advisor should have considered. 
Recollections differ about whether Ms R made the advisor aware that she had graduated 
from university and the advisors notes dont show this happened. But in any event, 
I consider that the advisor should reasonably have asked a question about this, given the 
information in TPOs fact find that suggested the possibility of someone with Ms Rs profile 
having an outstanding student loan. 
Advising about potential tax implications was a key part of the advisors role. The advisor 
had alerted Ms R to the benefits of disinvesting from one of her existing bonds over a two 
year period in order to mitigate potential tax liability. TPO ought to have advised Ms R about 
the impact that encashing bonds in line with its recommendation would have on her next tax 
bill  which didnt happen here. 
For these reasons, I find TPO acted unfairly and unreasonably towards Ms R and I am 
upholding Ms Rs complaint that TPO failed to provide her with an adequate service. So 
I have considered the question of fair redress.Did Ms R suffer any financial loss?
The investigator explained why she didnt think TPOs failure to alert Ms R to all the tax 
consequences of encashing bonds had resulted in actual financial loss. She thought that 
Ms R would still have gone ahead with bond encashment, even if shed known about the tax 
implications so far as her student loan was concerned, and said TPOs recommended 
investments had been suitable for Ms R. Both parties agree with this part of the 
investigators assessment. So I dont need to say more about this, except that I agree Ms R 
is no worse off in money terms as a result of what happened. 
Did Ms R suffer any other detriment?
If TPO had found out that Ms R was paying a student loan and mentioned the impact that 
encashing bonds would have on her next tax bill, as should have happened, then Ms R 
could have avoided the shock of finding this out for herself, after the event. 
Ms R had a portfolio of investments and I think it's fair to say her financial situation meant 
she wasnt facing any immediate prospect of having to struggle financially with everyday bills 
and living costs, even with this unexpected tax bill. 
But I dont think it follows, as TPO suggests, that she wouldnt have suffered the degree of 
stress she claims. I can completely understand that what happened was very upsetting and 
frustrating for Ms R. The tax demand came as an unwelcome and alarming surprise. It was a 
substantial sum to suddenly find out she needed to pay upfront and she hadnt factored this 
into her financial planning as she hadnt known about it. Her background and circumstances 
placed her in a position where she was entirely reliant on TPOs financial advice and she 
trusted that the advisor had told her everything she needed to know about. So its 
understandable that she felt very let down and anxious when she found out that TPO hadnt 
warned her about all the implications of its advice. And I have no good reason to doubt Ms R 
when she says that her reaction was to worry about where she would find the extra 
money in the middle of a cost of living crisis, where interest rates, energy costs and food 
costs are all skyrocketing... keeping in mind also that she believed at the time she was 
paying an additional charge. 
Fair compensation needs to properly reflect the impact on Ms R of TPOs service failings on 
this occasion. The £500 suggested by the investigator matches the level of award I would 
make in these circumstances had it not already been proposed. I dont doubt that TPOs 
poor handling of matters, as described above, caused Ms R significant distress and anxiety 
and whilst the impact on Ms R may have been relatively short-term, it was nevertheless 
significant and serious. I am satisfied that £500 is in line with the amount this service would 
award in similar cases and it is fair compensation for Ms R in her particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms R, if it hasnt already done so, TPO should pay Ms R £500 
compensation for the impact on her of the service failings I have identified. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct The Private Office Limited to take the steps set out above 
to put things right for Ms R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman