DRN-3539808
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly turned down their claim under section 75 
(s.75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In July 2011 Mr and Mrs H purchased a timeshare. The cost of the timeshare was £11,750 
and it was part funded by a payment Mr H made on his Lloyds credit card for £2,500. As the 
credit card was in Mr Hs sole name, I will refer to him throughout this decision. 
During the sale Mr H has said several statements were made about the timeshare, by the 
seller, which turned out to be untrue. Hes said without these representations, he would not 
have purchased the timeshare. 
In April 2019 Mr H, using a representative, raised a s.75 CCA claim to Lloyds. Lloyds 
responded to say it doesnt uphold the claim as it was raised more than 6 years after the 
purchase took place. Mr H subsequently complained about Lloyds handling of his claim and 
in response Lloyds confirmed its position remained unchanged. Unhappy with Lloyds 
response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She also thought Mr H had raised his 
complaint too late and outside the relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). She thought Mr H had six years from when he lost out, which she thought happened 
when he entered the timeshare agreement in July 2011. And as Mr H complained in April 
2019 he complained too late. She therefore concluded that Lloyds had fairly considered the 
claim. 
Mr H and his representatives didnt agree, and a number of points were made in response. 
In summary, Mrs H on Mr Hs behalf, says they thought they were in time to make a claim. 
She says she and Mr H were told this wasnt a timeshare and they only had to pay if they 
used it. They were told theyd be able to travel anywhere, including to Jersey but this wasnt 
the case. They feel thoroughly duped and had a horrendous experience on their first 
holiday. Mr Hs representatives have also questioned why these types of complaints arent 
being dealt with centrally by the Financial Ombudsman Service and have made reference to 
the timeshare contract containing provisions which are unfair.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell Lloyds to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
I want to assure Mr H that if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr H says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him 
and his wife when they bought it. But under section 9 of the LA, Mr H had to make that claim 
within six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in 
July 2011  because thats when he says he lost out having relied on false statements of 
fact. 
However, as Mr H first made a claim to Lloyds in April 2019, that fell outside of the time limit 
set out in the LA. I appreciate Mr H feels the complaint was made in time but unfortunately, I 
dont think it was. And so, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in declining his claim. 
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Ive noted Mr Hs CMCs comments in relation to how the Financial Ombudsman Service 
considers cases which it feels contains similar issues. However, in this decision Im 
considering Mr Hs complaint again Lloyds. Its therefore not appropriate for me to comment 
on other cases. In addition, the arguments which have been raised in relation to the fairness 
of the agreement havent been raised previously. What has been raised is a s.75 CCA claim. 
It therefore wouldnt be fair or reasonable to consider it now when Lloyds hasnt been given 
the chance to consider it first. So, Mr B and his representatives will need to raise it with 
Lloyds in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
