DRN-2568477
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to reject a critical illness 
claim made under his employers group scheme (the Scheme).  He wants the claim paid 
along with compensation for the distress caused. 
What happened
Mr Ms critical illness cover under the Scheme started on 18 November 2018. In 
February 2020 he was unfortunately diagnosed with Hodgkin Lymphoma and made a claim. 
Aviva declined the claim on 24 March 2020. It said the terms of the policy say that if a claim 
is made within two years of the cover start date, Aviva will not pay the claim if the member 
suffered an associated condition any time before cover started. Aviva was satisfied Mr M 
experienced symptoms (a lump in his neck) prior to cover starting and that those symptoms 
resulted in his eventual diagnosis. 
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. He said no scans or test were 
conducted until 2020, and so there was no clear proof as to when the symptoms of his 
cancer started appearing. Mr M referred to documents from medical practitioners confirming 
symptoms started in January 2019  when he visited family in Egypt - which he said made 
the claim valid. He thought Aviva was looking for reasons to decline the claim when it 
shouldve been supporting him through this difficult time. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the lump in Mr Ms neck 
was an associated condition linked to his eventual diagnosis. And from the available 
evidence, our investigator also thought it was fair for Aviva to conclude the lump was present 
before cover started in November 2018. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.  He maintained 
there was evidence to show his symptoms started in January 2019 and so he had a valid 
claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. As Ive reached a different conclusion to our 
investigator, I asked Aviva if it wanted to provide any further comments before I issued my 
final decision. Aviva didnt agree with my findings, but said it had nothing further to add.  
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
The terms and conditions of the Scheme say:
Associated Conditions
We will not pay a lump sum benefit for a member  who has a critical illness or 
operation if they had an associated condition at any time prior to:
The date their cover commenced under the scheme 
The Scheme defines associated conditions as:
Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease of treatment which is either:
Recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the 
occurrence of a critical illness or operation; or 
Its not in dispute that Mr M made a claim within two years of joining the Scheme. And I 
accept that the significance of the lump in his neck wouldnt have been known to him until he 
had tests and scans in 2020 and received the Hodgkin Lymphoma diagnosis. But in line with 
the policy terms, an associated condition is any symptom associated to the diagnosed 
critical illness. So, I cant see that Aviva has applied the term incorrectly. 
The issue for me to consider is whether the evidence supports Avivas position that the lump 
in Mr Ms neck  the associated condition - was present before cover began in 
November 2018.
All the available medical evidence shows Mr M didnt seek any medical advice about the 
lump in his neck or undergo any medical test until 2020  so after his critical illness cover 
was in place. But within that evidence theres some ambiguity as to exactly when Mr M first 
noticed the lump. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened - in the light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The letters and notes from the period between when Mr M first approached his GP about the 
lump in January 2020 and the Hodgkin Lymphoma diagnosis in February 2020 consistently 
reflect his testimony that the lump, and therefore the associated condition, presented up to 
two years previously. This includes information from Mr Ms GP, Consultant Haematologist 
and a Consultant ENT Head & Neck Surgeon. But up to two years could mean less than two 
years  which is key here as it has implications as to whether Mr M was covered or not. 
Its clear Mr M didnt seek any medical advice until January 2020  so I can say for sure the 
lump was present from that time. Mr M said when he first sought medical advice about the 
lump, in January 2020, he was unsure of when hed first noticed it. He thought it couldve 
been present for up to two years. But he then recalled his family noticing the lump in 
January 2019 during a trip to Egypt  of which Mr M has provided evidence of by way of 
copies of his flight tickets. And this has since been reflected in notes and in a letter from his 
Consultant Haematologist and Consultant ENT Head & Neck Surgeon. I can also see from 
his GP records and referral letter from January 2020 Mr M mentions the lump being noticed 
by family in Egypt  which is consistent with his recollection. So, I think on balance, its more 
likely than not the lump was present in January 2019. And I must now consider Avivas 
arguments as to why it believes the lump was present prior to November 2018. As Aviva is seeking to rely on an exclusion in the Scheme as its basis for declining Mr Ms 
claim, its for Aviva to prove, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion reasonably 
applies. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it has done so. 
Firstly, there is no clinical opinion to say the lump was present prior to November 2018. 
Aviva has based its conclusions on Mr Ms recollections when questioned about his 
symptoms by his GP and follow up consultations in early 2020.
Mr M gave a vague time period when first asked about when he noticed the lump, which on 
the face of it looks like it couldve been a pre-existing associated condition. But Mr M wasnt 
aware at that time of the impact his vague answers could have on a potential claim. And, 
more importantly, had no reason to fabricate when he first became aware of the lump. What 
we do know is that from his first GP consultation in January 2020, Mr Ms consistently 
referenced the holiday in Egypt in January 2019 as a time marker for his first awareness of 
the lump. 
In Avivas final response letter dated 24 July 2020, it says the medical information gives a 
definite 2 year history. Aviva also said, Reference to 2 years came directly from [Mr M] in 
response to the doctors questions along the lines of how long have you had this lump. The 
clinical record is a factual account. Reference to this from multiple sources independent of 
each other strongly correlate with it being correct. 
But I dont agree that to be the case. When asked when he first noticed the lump, Mr M 
gave, at best, vague answers with broad timescales - 12 to 18 months, one to two years, 
about 18 months, up to two years. This suggests to me that he wasnt sure when he first 
noticed the lump. As Ive said above, up to two years could be less than two years. And so, I 
dont think this information shows its more likely than not the lump was present prior to 
November 2018, rather than any time after he joined the Scheme, which was 14 months 
before Mr M first visited his GP. 
Aviva said the clinical record is a factual account. Whilst it might be a factual account of 
what Mr M said when questioned about when he first noticed the lump  I dont agree it 
confirms as fact the lump was present prior to November 2018.  Aviva also says the two-
year date is referenced by multiple independent sources. But whilst those sources might be 
independent of each other  the information derives only from Mr Ms vague recollection, 
and those sources own interpretation of that information  not, as far as I can tell, from any 
independent clinical assessments. 
So, based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont agree Aviva has proved on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr Ms lump was present prior to November 2018. So, I dont think Aviva 
has acted reasonably in declining Mr Ms claim on that basis. 
Putting things right
Aviva should now settle the claim and compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by having the claim declined and having to pursue matters. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited must do the following:
Pay Mr Ms claim in full. 
Add interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date the claim was originally declined (24 March 2020) to the date of settlement.  
Pay Mr M a sum of £300 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused to him 
in having the claim declined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman