DRN-3574861
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (LASL) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Os employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Os employer would be set up  the BSPS2. 
Mr O approached LASL for advice about his BSPS pension, as his trade union indicated it 
had arranged for advice from LASL to be available to give members guidance about their 
choices.
LASL met with Mr O on 4 August 2017 and completed a fact-find to gather information about 
his circumstances and objectives. Mr O was 47, in good health, employed full time, married 
with two children, one of whom was still financially dependent. It was recorded that Mrs O 
had some quite significant health issues. 
Mr and Mrs O owned their own home with a small outstanding mortgage of around £5,000 
that was due to be repaid in the next three years. No other outstanding liabilities were 
recorded, nor were any savings or assets, beyond their home. And their combined income 
was recorded as exceeding their outgoings each month.
In addition to Mr Os BSPS benefits, which were noted as having a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £556,451.10, he was also a member of his employers new defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme.
LASL noted that Mr O wanted to retire at age 55, the earliest he could, to spend time with 
Mrs O, given her health conditions. It said he expected to need an income of £1,400 per 
month in retirement as his mortgage would be repaid and he expected his children to both 
be financially independent. LASL said Mr O wanted advice on transferring out of the BSPS 
to ensure he could do this. And he also wanted Mrs O to benefit from the flexibility of the 
pension, in the event he was to die unexpectedly.
LASL also carried out an assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low 
medium or 5 on a scale of 1-10. 
LASL advised Mr O to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. Mr O has 
provided a copy of the suitability report he received which is dated 5 August 2017. This said 
Mr O had lost faith in his employer and wanted a solution independent to it. And remaining in 
his existing scheme couldnt give income flexibility or control over investment choice. So 
LASL said it recommended a transfer to:
Ensure Mr O could access his pension when and how he planned.
Provide a legacy to Mrs O that she could use flexibly to support her in the event Mr O 
passed away.
Allow Mr O to have control of his pension benefits, how he accessed them, and the 
level of income he took from his pension.
LASL recommended a specific pension provider and fund, that it said was in line with Mr Os 
attitude to risk and provided information about the past performance of this fund. The 
recommendation explained that LASLs fee for providing advice would be deducted from the 
transfer value. It was also agreed that LASL would provide ongoing servicing and reviews to 
Mr O.
On 11 August 2017 it was formally confirmed that the RAA was progressing. And on 25 
August 2017, an update was issued about transfer values. This said that the trustees 
expected to be able to provide improved CETVs to members when the steps in the RAA 
were carried out  including a large lump sum payment into the scheme.
Although the suitability report outlining its recommendation was dated 5 August 2017, LASL 
says this wasnt in fact sent to Mr O until after 28 August 2017, as it was undergoing internal 
checks. And it has provided evidence these checks didnt commence until 21 August 2017.
On 4 September 2017, Mr O signed a form that had been prepared for him by LASL. This 
said its analysis had not included a comparison with the RAA, which was not yet available. 
But that the benefits under the RAA are expected to be less than those under the BSPS. So, 
Mr O was happy to proceed with the transfer based on current comparisons.
The steps of the RAA were completed, and the BSPS separated from Mr Os employer, on 
11 September 2017. With an announcement confirming members would now have to choose 
between joining the BSPS2 or remaining in the BSPS and moving to the PPF. It also 
explained updated transfer values would be sent to members as well as literature to assist 
with their choice.
The discharge forms to authorise the trustees to transfer benefits from the BSPS were 
signed on 25 September 2017. This appears to have been after an updated transfer value 
was provided  the CETV having increased to £574,596.25.
Mr O complained in 2021 to LASL about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he felt 
rushed into making a decision and didnt fully understand the benefits hed be losing as a 
result of transferring. Mr O said LASL had fixated on early retirement and flexibility when 
offering advice. And he said he believed it had just recommended he join its preferred 
pension provider, without actually researching alternatives.
LASL didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said:
Mr O was looking to retire as early as possible due to his wifes health concerns and 
he had concerns about what was happening with the BSPS. 
The information on file indicated Mr O might just have been able to meet his income 
objective by retiring early under the scheme. 
But a transfer made this more comfortable. While this wasnt recorded at the time of the advice, Mr Os expenditure mayve been 
higher in early retirement - so the flexibility the transfer provided wouldve been 
useful. 
The transfer improved the death benefits of the pension, which it said was one of 
Mr Os objectives.
So, LASL considered that the advice to transfer was suitable for Mr O, noting he hadnt 
raised concerns during the annual reviews immediately following the advice.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. He said he didnt know anything about pensions 
and had relied on LASL for advice about what was best. While retiring early was something 
he was thinking about at the time of the advice, he couldnt do so for eight years from that 
time. And his circumstances couldve, and indeed have, changed  with him now not 
needing or intending to retire early. So, he didnt think the advice was suitable and he 
shouldve been advised to defer any decision on transferring to nearer the time. This 
wouldve persevered his guaranteed benefits, not put them at risk and ensured that a 
decision was made when his needs would be clearer. He also indicated he was particularly 
unhappy with the fee hed paid for the advice.
LASL told our service, when it considered the complaint, the advice had been subject to a 
skilled person review by an independent party using the Defined Benefit Advice Assessment 
tool (DBAAT). This had informed its opinion that the advice was suitable. And LASL said we 
should take this into account.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that 
LASL should compensate Mr O for any loss the DB transfer had led to and pay £350 for the 
distress caused to him. He thought Mr O was unlikely to improve on the benefits hed have 
received through the scheme by transferring. And he didnt think Mr O needed to transfer, 
and give up valuable guarantees, when he was advised to. So, the investigator thought 
LASL shouldve recommended that Mr O join the BSPS2.
LASL didnt agree. It repeated that it had arranged a skilled person review of the advice as 
required by regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and an independent party had 
been appointed to carry this out. The skilled person had reviewed the advice, using the 
FCAs DBAAT and found the advice to be compliant. And it thought the Investigator hadnt 
considered this and their starting point in considering the complaint was flawed. In particular 
it said the presumption of unsuitability was guidance, not a rule, and that the overarching 
consideration was whether the adviser had taken reasonable steps to ensure the advice was 
suitable.
LASL also said the Investigators assessment focused too narrowly on whether Mr O could 
improve on or match his BSPS benefits  it said this was contrary to the guidance the FCA 
had issued in 2017 (Consultation Paper 17/16 CP17/16) that firms should not be overly 
reliant on the critical yield when giving advice as this was leading to poor outcomes for 
customers. LASL said the Investigator needed to take the DBAAT into account to determine 
whether the advice was suitable overall. It maintained the advice was suitable as the transfer 
met Mr Os objectives. It again noted that Mr O was likely to be able to meet his income 
requirements through the BSPS2 or PPF. But the transfer had given Mr O flexibility in terms 
of how he could draw his benefits, which it said was a key objective, as well as enabling him 
to leave the fund to his wife in the event of his death and moving the pension away from the 
control of his employer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They didnt think Mr O needed 
flexibility in terms of how he could access his benefits. Nor did they think access to 
alternative death benefits or his concerns about what had happened with the BSPS, meant that a transfer was suitable, given it seemed likely Mr O would receive benefits of a lower 
overall value. Particularly given LASL had acknowledged Mr O was likely able to meet his 
income requirements through the scheme. 
In August 2022 the FCA launched a consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress 
guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to Mr O to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes 
which were due to come into effect in April 2023 and to give him the option to have any 
redress due to him calculated under the then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to 
come into effect. Mr O indicated he would like redress calculated under the guidance in 
place at the time. But the Investigator explained that if the complaint hadnt been settled in 
full and final settlement by the time the new rules came into effect, he expected LASL to 
carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and guidance in any event.
LASL later said, while it still did not think the advice it had given was unsuitable and 
disagreed with the Investigators opinion, it was willing to make an offer to settle the 
complaint. It said, based on a number of assumptions about Mr Os current pension value, it 
didnt think he was likely to be worse off and, under the FCAs redress guidance, believed 
Mr O was unlikely to be due any compensation. Nevertheless, it said it was willing to pay 
Mr O £5,000 in full and final settlement of his complaint. It said its offer was for a limited time 
and would be withdrawn if not accepted and the complaint still required an ombudsmans 
decision.
Mr O said he would not be accepting LASLs offer. He said, regardless of if redress was due 
for any loss, he wanted the advice fee to be refunded, as well as a goodwill sum as 
compensation. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
LASLs arguments, particularly in response to our Investigators findings, in considerably less 
detail than it has. If Ive not reflected something thats been said its not because I didnt see 
it or havent thought about it, nor is this intended as a discourtesy to either party. Rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in deciding the complaint. This also 
means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
point raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LASL's actions here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
LASL says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr O. It says that COBS 19.1.6G is guidance, not a rule or regulation that 
firms are required to follow, and that the Investigator was wrong to consider this as a starting 
point. I agree that under COBS, LASL was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
its personal recommendation to Mr O was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1R). However, 
additional regulations and guidance applies to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. 
COBS 19.1.6G says the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Os best interests.
I accept this is categorised as guidance and not a rule per se. But I dont think the 
importance of this guidance can be overlooked. It is intended to reflect the FCAs view 
(which it has maintained ever since) that retaining safeguarded benefits is in the best 
interests of most customers  so it is an important guiding principle for any firm giving 
advice. And in any event, the FCA still requires that an adviser acts in accordance with the 
best interests of its client under COBS 2.1.1R. And I think that this reinforces that advice to 
transfer out of a DB scheme should only be given if it is in the customers best interest to do 
so.
So, Ive considered all of the applicable regulations and guidance here. And having looked at 
all the evidence available, for much the same reasons explained by our Investigator, Im not 
satisfied LASL took reasonable steps to ensure the advice to transfer was suitable for Mr O 
or that it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it is that Mr O would be better off in 
terms of the retirement income, by transferring. Because moving from a DB scheme to a 
personal pension exposed his pension to risk that he wasnt otherwise subject to. And while 
LASL has argued that Mr O had other motivations beyond improving on his retirement 
benefits its role was to look at what was in his best interests. And given a pensions primary 
purpose is to provide the holders income in retirement, whether Mr O would be better off in 
retirement as a result of a transfer is, in my view, a relevant consideration when looking at 
what was in his best interests
LASL carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Os pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). This was completed on 5 August 
2017. This was based on the existing scheme benefits of the BSPS. But remaining in the 
BSPS, as it was, wasnt going to be an option for Mr O. 
While the suitability report that Mr O was sent is dated 5 August 2017, documents LASL has 
provided indicate it was reviewed internally before being despatched. That review was dated 21 August 2017. And some of the things the review highlighted were added to the report Ive 
seen. So, it appears that the suitability report was likely not sent until after 21 August 2017  
and indeed LASL made this point in its recent responses, saying its records indicated that 
the advice was in fact not given until after 28 August 2017. 
By 28 August 2017, it had been formally confirmed that the RAA was progressing and details 
of BSPS2 had been made available. But LASL didnt complete a TVAS using the details of 
the new scheme or update its advice to reflect that the only options available to Mr O, in 
respect of the originating scheme, were to remain with the BSPS and join the PPF or move 
to the new BSPS2. And I think it shouldve done, so that Mr O had all of the information he 
needed to make an informed decision.
The suitability report said that LASL only compared the BSPS benefits as it considered that if 
transferring out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr O, then it would also be suitable advice to 
transfer and forego any benefits the BSPS2 would provide (given the benefits available to 
Mr O wouldve been lower under that scheme). But I still think the benefits available to Mr O 
through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored into this advice  even if that meant delaying 
the advice somewhat  so that he understood exactly what he was giving up. Because by 
the time LASL says the advice was given, updates had been provided confirming members 
of the BSPS would be given time to make a choice and that improved transfer values were 
likely to be forthcoming. So, waiting for this would, in my view, have been appropriate to 
ensure the advice was in Mr Os best interests. And indeed, LASLs internal review of the 
advice, dated 21 August 2017 said, one of the potential issues was that this had not been 
considered. By not doing this the only message Mr O received was that his benefits under 
the BSPS2 would be less than the existing scheme, without knowing whether this difference 
was actually significant or whether it wouldve made a difference to his retirement plans.
On top of this, while the TVAS did provide information about what the PPF might provide 
from age 65, it included no details of what the PPF might offer at age 55. This is despite the 
fact-find and suitability report saying that Mr O wanted to retire at age 55 and that this was a 
key objective and reason for the recommendation. So again, Mr O doesnt appear to have 
been provided with all of the relevant information he needed to make an informed decision.
Nevertheless, Ive looked at the information that was included in the TVAS report to consider 
if a transfer was in Mr Os interests.
The TVAS said that the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS wouldve provided at 
65 were 7.26% if Mr O took a full pension and 5.61% if he took the maximum possible tax-
free cash and a reduced pension. To match the benefits the PPF wouldve provided from 
age 65 it said the critical yields were 4.37% for a full pension and 3.96% for a reduced 
pension. Again, critical yields were not calculated in respect of what the BSPS2 would offer 
from age 65. The BSPS2 wouldve though offered the same income benefits as the BSPS 
but the annual revaluation pre-retirement and escalations post-retirement wouldve been 
lower. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical 
yields somewhat compared to the BSPS. But, based on my experience of other complaints, I 
still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF, particularly at age 
65. 
Again though, the advice was on the basis that Mr O wanted to retire at age 55. The critical 
yields required to match the benefits the BSPS wouldve provided from age 55 were 12.74% 
for a full pension and 9.05% for a reduced pension. But remaining in the BSPS was not an 
option. The critical yields required to match the benefits the PPF and the BSPS2 wouldve 
provided from age 55 werent calculated. Which I think was a failing by LASL given the 
timing of the advice. But, based on what we know about the benefits those two schemes 
offered and similar complaints Ive seen I think the critical yields form the PFF and BSPS2 at age 55 were again likely to be lower than for the BSPS. But they were also in my view likely 
to be higher than the critical yield figures the PPF returned for age 65  in much the same 
way the BSPS critical yields were significantly higher for earlier retirement. This is generally 
due to the shorter time for growth to be achieved. And again, this has been reflected in other 
complaints Ive seen  critical yields for early retirement under the BSPS2 and PPF are 
almost always greater than for the equivalent critical yields at the scheme retirement age. 
So, I think the critical yields in respect of the benefits the PPF and BSPS2 would offer at 55 
were likely to be greater than 3.96%.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at that time for seven full years to retirement, applicable if Mr O were to 
retire at age 55, was 3.4%. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at 
the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
And, in addition, the risk profile report that LASL compiled in this case said that the 
estimated potential annual growth rate of the asset mix that was going to be targeted for 
Mr O, in line with his attitude to risk, was 2.58% per year.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Os low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr O giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given I think the 
lowest critical yield at age 55 was likely to exceed 3.96%, I think Mr O was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value at retirement than the wouldve received under 
the BSPS2 or the PPF, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.  And, given 
the estimated potential growth of the asset mix LASL was proposing for Mr O, it also 
appears unlikely hed have improved on the benefits he wouldve received through the DB 
scheme at the normal retirement age.
LASL referred in its suitability report to the past performance of the fund it was 
recommending. But as it will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. 
And this was at odds with its own estimation of potential future growth. In any event, I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
LASL said that it doesnt think the discount rate is a relevant consideration, as it wasnt 
required to consider this by the regulator. While I havent based my findings just on this, I 
think the discount rate is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine 
what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 
19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a 
DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. 
So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable 
assumption of the likely returns achievable for a typical investor.
In any event though, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators published 
projection rates, which providers were required to refer to, and the estimated growth for the 
target asset mix LASL detailed. And it is this combination which leads me to believe Mr O 
would likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.LASL has also said that the critical yield is an outdated tool and weve focused too heavily 
on this when considering the complaint, noting that Mr O, like most consumers, was unlikely 
to be transferring to replicate benefits. But, at the time of the advice, the FCA required LASL 
to calculate the critical yield and consider the rate of growth required to replicate benefits. 
So, I think this is a relevant consideration here.
LASL also referred, in its suitability report, to cash flow models that it said showed, if 5% 
growth was achieved each year, that Mr O could withdraw his target income and the fund 
would last until he was over the age of 100. But this was dependent on achieving growth at 
the regulators mid-rate year on year, which I dont think was likely based on his attitude to 
risk and LASLs own analysis of estimated potential growth. And this doesnt factor in any 
periods of losses or poor performance. It is also interesting to note that the TVAS report, 
which appears to have been based on a reference against the actual fund provider LASL 
recommended, said if the medium rate of return it used was achieved and Mr O drew 
benefits equivalent to the DB scheme on a flexible basis from either age 55 or 65, the fund 
would in fact likely run out by age 81 at the latest. So, in reality, I think Mr Os funds had the 
potential to run out sooner if he transferred out of the scheme.
Taking all of this into account, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer 
was in Mr Os best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice. And LASL has argued that the FCA made clear in CP17/16 that 
relying on the critical yield alone produces poor outcomes for customers. While Im mindful 
that this was a consultation paper and not new rules, Ive taken into account that there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Os best interests, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
LASL says Mr O wanted flexibility to be able to vary his retirement benefits. It also says he 
wanted to retire at age 55 and achieve an income of £1,400 per month.
The fact find doesnt reference Mr O having the objective of wanting flexibility in how he 
could draw his benefits. The only reference to flexibility it makes is actually in respect of 
death benefits available to Mrs O by transferring. 
The suitability report does make mention of greater flexibility being something Mr O was 
interested in. But at the same time, it says he expected to require income of a specific level 
throughout his retirement and didnt expect to have any need for more. And there was no 
suggestion in the recommendation, or information about his circumstances, that he expected 
to need to vary this or to need access to lump sums.
In its response to Mr Os complaint, LASL said it seemed possible Mr Os expenditure in the 
early years of retirement may be higher. And it said the skilled person review had noted that 
thered likely be little additional funds available for such purpose by remaining in the scheme. 
But, as the complaint response also noted, there was nothing recorded on the file about this 
being a requirement or even a consideration at the time of the advice.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr O needed flexibility in terms of how he could 
access his benefits, and this appears to have been more of a nice to have than something 
he needed.
Im satisfied, at the time of the advice, that retiring early was likely something Mr O was 
interested in. Mrs O had some significant health conditions, and it appears that spending 
time with her was at the forefront of his mind. But at the same time Mr O was only 47 when 
the advice was given  over 7 years from when he could even begin to think about accessing his benefits early. His circumstances could very well have changed in that time  
as he says is the case. So, a decision about this couldve been deferred until later  and 
under the BSPS2 hed still have been able to transfer out at a later date. In addition, while I 
dont doubt that Mr O aspired to retire early I think, when asked, most people would say they 
would like to do so. But, for the majority, early retirement means a significant drop in income. 
Which would dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. As 
a result, when faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to 
retire.
Mr O could also access benefits under the PPF and the BSPS2 from age 55. So, he didnt 
have to transfer in order to meet his aim of taking benefits from that point. And the skilled 
person review and LASLs responses to the complaint all note that Mr O couldve likely met 
his income requirements by remaining in the scheme. Although a transfer would make doing 
so more comfortable.
Taking this into account, I dont think based on the evidence Ive seen that I can reasonably 
say Mr O needed to transfer his pension benefits to meet his objective of potentially retiring 
early. And again, that objective was in any event subject to change in the time until he would 
actually be able to retire. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation to make an 
irreversible decision to give up his guaranteed benefits at that stage.
Death benefits
LASL says Mr O was interested in the alternative, lump-sum death benefits available through 
a transfer and wanted these to be available to Mrs O and his family in the event of his death. 
But LASLs role wasnt wish fulfilment, it was to advise Mr O about what was in his best 
interests. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr O. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr O 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think LASL explored to what extent Mr O was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Mr Os existing pension would also have provided death benefits by way of a spouses 
pension. And this couldve been useful to Mrs O in the event Mr O predeceased her. This 
was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different to that figure  
unless Mr O had passed away immediately, which was unlikely. As well as being dependent 
on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr O drew in his 
lifetime. Mr O was recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was 
less likely to live until at least his average life expectancy. And given what Ive noted already 
about the cash flow projections in the TVAS report, it appears entirely possible the fund 
wouldve been significantly depleted by the time he reached his average life expectancy. So, 
the pension may not have provided the legacy that Mr O may have thought it would. In any 
event, LASL should not have encouraged Mr O to prioritise the potential for alternative death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr O was contributing to his employers new DC pension, which couldve been passed on as 
a lump sum in the event of his death. And if Mr O genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy 
for his family, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund 
remained on his death, I think LASL shouldve instead explored life insurance. LASL has said this wasnt a feasible alternative and didnt address Mr Os preference for the 
pension to be passed on. But again, its role was to advise Mr O on what was best for him, 
and a pensions primary function isnt to provide death benefits, it is to provide income in 
retirement to the holder. So, I dont think its argument that insurance, specifically for the 
purpose of providing death benefits, wasnt a suitable potential solution stands up to 
scrutiny.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr O. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
LASLs suitability report said Mr O wanted greater control over his pension investments. But 
I cannot see that he had the experience, interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own  which I think is supported by the intention being that hed 
receive ongoing servicing and advice in respect of this pension after the transfer. And I think 
his desire for control has been overstated.
Rather, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont 
doubt Mr O, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer 
had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have 
been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. I also dont doubt Mr O was potentially worried 
his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard negative things about this outcome, 
and this was why he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. Its also 
possible that Mr O was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he 
had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. But that is why it was even 
more important for LASL to give Mr O an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
LASL said Mr O didnt want his employer involved in managing his pension fund. And Mr O 
may well have had negative feelings towards his employers handling of his pension so far, 
which I think was a reasonable emotional response. But the trustees of the pension scheme, 
and the new BSPS2 were not one and the same as his employer. I think LASL shouldve 
done more to explain this significant distinction. And I also note Mr O was continuing to work 
for the same employer, doesnt appear to have any intention to change this and was a 
member of the employers new DC scheme. So, the relationship does not appear to have 
broken down to the extent that LASL has suggested.
By the time the suitability report was issued here, accounting for the fact it appears to have 
been dated incorrectly, there were updates regarding the BSPS and the BSPS2 that 
indicated it was progressing and appeared likely to be an option for customers in Mr Os 
position. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr O through the 
BSPS2 into account. Which, as Ive said, it appears he was unlikely to improve upon by 
transferring. And I think this shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr O mightve had 
about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that LASL shouldve 
reassured Mr O that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
While he aspired to retire early, his plans werent confirmed given this was a number of 
years off. But in any event, he could take benefits early under the PPF. And while the 
increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have provided a guaranteed 
income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment risk. By transferring he 
was taking on additional risk and, as Ive explained, I dont think he was likely to be 
substantially better off, such that taking this risk was in his interests. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to LASL recommending Mr O transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
DBAAT Tool
LASL says that a skilled person has reviewed the advice and considered it to be suitable. 
And that we need to have regard for this, and the advice needs to be looked at as a whole 
with the output of the DBAAT tool being an important consideration. I am satisfied I have 
already considered the suitability of the advice as a whole. But Ive also considered the 
review LASL has referred to.
The skilled person completed the DBAAT tool in April 2021, and the outcome was recorded 
as being that the advice was compliant. However, having carefully considered the answers 
the skilled person gave to the questions tool asked, there are several I disagree with which I 
think could have led to a different result. 
For example, in the section titled Examples of unsuitability the skilled person answered No 
to the following examples:
2) The aim of the transfer is to maximise death benefits but there is insufficient evidence on 
the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
3) The aim of the transfer is to access flexible benefits but there is insufficient evidence on 
the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
9) The firm's transfer analysis does not support a recommendation to transfer.
Ive explained above why I dont think transferring out of the DB scheme to maximise death 
benefits or to obtain flexibility was in Mr Os best interests or suitable for him. And Ive also 
explained, although potentially flawed given the information it was based on, the TVAS 
indicated that the transfer wasnt financially viable given Mr Os risk appetite and the other 
information LASL recorded at the time.
In addition, I can see that the skilled person answered Yes to the following example of 
unsuitability:
6) The client wants to retire early but can meet their objective(s) while remaining in the 
scheme.
And the DBAAT flagged the transfer as being potentially unsuitable because of this. But this 
was overridden, and the transfer deemed suitable. The reason seems again to be that a 
transfer made meeting the objectives more comfortable. But as Ive explained, I dont think it 
was in Mr Os best interests to sacrifice guaranteed benefits and subject the pension to 
investment risk when it is acknowledged that he couldve met his apparent income objectives 
without doing so, just for flexibility that he didnt necessarily need.
So, taking all of this into account, while Ive had regard for the output of the DBAAT I dont 
think this demonstrates that the advice given to Mr O here was suitable for him.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr O. But LASL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr O might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to separate his concerns stemming from the consultation from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr O was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr O was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Os best interests for him to 
transfer his pension benefits to a personal pension when he had the opportunity of joining 
the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. But I think it 
was clear to all parties, particularly based on the updates that were given while the advice 
was ongoing, that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr O had 17 years before he 
would reach normal retirement age and 7 years before he could begin drawing any benefits. 
I dont doubt he was interested in retiring early, based on his and Mrs Os circumstances at 
the time. But those circumstances couldve changed in the time in between and there was no 
guarantee he would retire early. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't necessarily be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr O wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, under the BSPS2 the spouses 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (even if Mr O chose to take one). The 
annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2. So, I think had LASL advised him not to transfer, Mr O wouldve opted into the 
BSPS2. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr O would've gone ahead anyway, against LASL's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully. I accept that LASL outlined risks associated with 
transferring to Mr O as part of its recommendation. But ultimately, it advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS, and I think Mr O relied on that advice. And Im not persuaded that Mr O 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against LASLs advice. Mr O was an 
inexperienced investor, in respect of pensions, with a low medium attitude to risk and this 
pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if LASL had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Os concerns about the ongoing consultation were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise his 
trade union had recommended, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
And if LASL had explained that Mr O could meet his objectives of retiring early without 
risking his guaranteed pension and provided a legacy in the event of his death by other 
means, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr O would have 
insisted on transferring.
In light of the above, I think LASL should compensate Mr O for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Mr O has said hed like the fee he paid for advice refunded, regardless of whether the 
regulators methodology requires redress to be paid. But the fee was deducted from his 
pension on transfer. And the methodology accounts for this as part of the calculation as to 
whether he has suffered a loss. I know Mr O is disappointed he was given unsuitable advice. 
But ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right 
instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And this accounts for the 
advice fee. So, I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator recommended that LASL also pay Mr O £350 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr O has been caused distress and concern by finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr O, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
LASL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
LASL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr O and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr O has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Os 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LASL should:
calculate and offer Mr O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr O before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr O receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr O accepts LASLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr O for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr O as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, LASL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. In addition, LASL should pay Mr O £350 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr O the balance.
If Mr O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman