DRN-2985740
The complaint
Mrs I complains about a number of problems she had with a credit card provided by Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Mrs I has brought this complaint with the assistance of a representative.
What happened
Mrs I raised a number of complaint points with Lloyds regarding her credit card. These were:
Lloyds had taken payment from her current account to pay her credit card without 
her consent.
That the account still had an outstanding balance and Mrs I didnt think this should 
be the case.
The balance had continued to increase despite not having an active card.
The credit limit had increased even though the account had been closed.
Lloyds had been sending statements to an incorrect address.
Lloyds responded to these complaint points on 1 October 2020. It said a payment of £62.03 
was due in September 2020. Mrs I didnt make this payment, so Lloyds used its right of set 
off to take the payment from her current account held with Lloyds. It said it was entitled to 
do so under its terms and conditions.
Lloyds also explained that whilst the account was last used in December 2018 and the 
account was closed by Lloyds in October 2019, the balance had never been repaid, so was 
still owed by Mrs I. Mrs I didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators looked into it.  
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake. However, following further 
investigation Lloyds did agree that it held an incorrect address for Mrs I and offered £100 
compensation for this. Our investigator thought this was fair, but Mrs I and her representative 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. So, its been passed to 
me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I has previously complained to our service about a number of other issues relating to 
her Lloyds credit card. They were that:
Lloyds had decided to close the account.
She didnt receive a new credit card in January 2019, despite Lloyds saying they 
had sent it.
A number of transactions had been declined.
The amount her monthly direct debit was set at was the minimum amount.
I issued a decision in October 2021 explaining that Mrs I hadnt referred the complaint points 
to us in time, so we didnt have the power to consider them. I wont be considering these 
points here for the reasons set out in my previous decision. But I will address the points 
listed at the start of this decision as they have been referred to us in time. 
Mrs I has presented her complaint in great detail, and her representative has also raised a 
number of additional arguments recently. Ive considered everything they have said. I may 
not address each specific issue theyve raised. Instead, Im going to focus on the crux of this 
complaint - the four points Ive set out at the start of this decision. I hope Mrs I realises this 
doesnt mean I havent considered everything, and that I mean no disrespect by this, but it 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service. Ill address each of the key points 
separately for ease.
Lloyds taking payment from Mrs Is current account to pay her credit card without her 
consent
Lloyds is using what is known as the right of set off here. This is a standard term in the 
banking industry. And the credit card terms and conditions Ive been provided with allow for 
this. What this essentially means is that if a payment is due and Mrs I doesnt make it in 
time, Lloyds can take the payment from another of her accounts held with Lloyds. 
I can see that when the right of set off has been used, Mrs I was in arrears and did owe a 
monthly payment and hadnt made it in time. So, I dont think Lloyds has done anything 
wrong in this regard. In fact, by doing so, Lloyds has ensured that Mrs Is credit file is not in a 
worse position than it might have been had further payments been missed.
The account still having an outstanding balance
Following a discussion with Mrs I, her representative and our investigator, Mrs accepts that 
she hasnt repaid the balance and does owe the outstanding amount. However, for 
completeness, I will confirm that the statements Ive been provided with dont suggest Mrs I 
ever repaid the balance after Lloyds closed the account. Shes had the benefit of the funds 
shes borrowed, so I dont see any reason to ask Lloyds to write off the remaining balance.
Mrs Is representative has said that Lloyds shouldve made her aware of the balance when it 
closed the account. Im not aware of a formal requirement to do so other than to continue to 
provide statements (which Ill address later), but given that Mrs I had rarely made much 
more than the minimum payment, I think its likely she shouldve realised there was still an 
outstanding balance.
The balance continuing to increase despite not having an active card
I believe there may be some confusion here on Mrs Is part. The statements Mrs I has 
provided us, which she says is showing transactions after the credit card was closed, are 
actually statements from her current account, not the credit card. 
The last transactions showing on the credit card statements provided by Lloyds are in 
January 2019 for transactions made in December 2018. 
Ive reviewed the statements following the credit card being closed and these do not show 
any new card transactions or cash withdrawals. They do however include an amount of 
monthly transactions which is the interest charged and, when applicable, any fees charged for late payments. Even though the credit card had been closed by Lloyds, it is still entitled to 
charge interest and fees until the balance is repaid as it has done here. The balance actually 
decreased slightly when payments were made as the minimum payment was slightly more 
than the interest charged. However, on occasions where Mrs I didnt make a payment, this 
caused the balance to increase by the amount of monthly interest charged. So, I dont think 
Lloyds has done anything wrong here.
The credit limit increasing after the account had been closed
It appears from the statements that the credit limit was increased from £3,000 to £4,000 
between the January 2019 and February 2019 statements being issued. Its unclear why this 
credit limit increase was applied. Lenders do from time to time increase limits on credit 
cards. However, they will typically write to a consumer to make them aware of this. Its likely 
Lloyds did this but sent the letter to the incorrect address it held, which is why Mrs I wasnt 
aware of this. 
This credit limit increase was completed many months before Lloyds closed Mrs Is account 
in October 2019. Furthermore, I cant see that Mrs I ever used the new credit limit, or indeed 
went over the previous (lower) limit. So, I cant see this has caused any detriment here. And 
because of this, I dont think I need to make further findings on this part of the complaint and 
Im not going to ask Lloyds to take any further action.
Lloyds sending statements to an incorrect address
Mrs Is address, for credit card statements, has been set to an address abroad for many 
years. Its unclear why Mrs Is address was set to this particular address. Mrs I has said she 
did live in that country at some point, but moved many years ago, and she never lived at this 
particular address. Due to the passage of time, Lloyds cannot tell us who was responsible 
for changing the address to this particular one. But Lloyds has acknowledged it mayve 
made an error here and offered £100 compensation.
Ive thought about the impact this error mayve had on Mrs I. However, Mrs I has been 
making payments over the years to the credit card by direct debit. And Lloyds has told us 
that Mrs I was set up to receive SMS alerts when she missed payments. She also had the 
ability to access this account online and, as outlined above, ought to have been aware shed 
only been making minimum payments towards the debt. So, on balance, I think Mrs I still 
shouldve been aware that there was a balance on the card regardless of whether shed 
received statements. For these reasons, I dont think Lloyds can be fairly held responsible 
for the fact Mrs I says she wasnt aware of her outstanding balance.
It mustve been frustrating for Mrs I to have found out that the statements were going to a 
wrong address. But shes only recently found this out, so I dont think this has caused long 
term distress or inconvenience. I think the amount of £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, I recognise Mrs I is likely to remain unhappy with my decision. And will still have 
some unanswered questions - some because we cant consider them as per my previous 
decision, and others we cant access information about due to the passage of time. 
However, considering everything I have, I think what Lloyds has offered to resolve this 
complaint is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask it to take any further action.
Putting things rightLloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs I £100 compensation for sending documents to an 
incorrect address. I make no further award.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman