DRN-2824412
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited refused to consider a claim he made under his 
legal expenses insurance policy. It said the event happened before his policy started. 
Mrs M is a joint policyholder, however for ease in this decision, I will refer to Mr M only. 
Any references to Aviva in this decision, include the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint. 
Mr M was in dispute with his employer as to how his pensionable service had been 
calculated. He had a spell of part time employment in the 1980s and his employer had 
treated this as a break in service. Mr M was unhappy as this meant the value of his pension 
entitlement was impacted. He raised the issue on many occasions with his employer over 
the years and in 2019 sought legal advice. 
Mr M was advised to take the matter to an employment tribunal. He made a claim to Aviva to 
cover his legal costs. 
Aviva said it wouldnt consider the claim as the dispute started before his policy began in 
2011.
Our investigator let Mr M know they didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong and that it 
had acted in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing so he said a distinction 
should be drawn between asking his employer to use its discretion and raising a formal 
complaint about it.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Having checked the policy, Im satisfied its clear it will not provide cover for disputes 
about events, or the first of a series of events, that happened before the policy 
started. This is a common term in legal expenses policies.
Mr M has confirmed he initially became aware of the impact to his pension 
entitlement in 1995 and raised this with his employer. In 2001 he completed a form 
provided by his employer confirming his request to have his pension entitlement 
reviewed following a recent court case. In 2003, the review concluded no change 
would be made. In 2017 Mr M spoke to his union about the matter. In 2018 he raised 
a complaint with the pension trustees, and he sought legal advice in 2019.
Mr Ms policy with Aviva didnt start until 2011.  Based on the above, I think Aviva has 
reasonably concluded the event, or the first of a series of events, happened before 
the policy started. I think Mr M was aware, more likely than not, at least by 2003 
there was a matter he was unhappy about and as such this event started before his 
policy begun. Because of this, I think Aviva has acted fairly in declining to consider 
his claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
 
The policy is clear on what cover will be provided. And, while I appreciate Mr M 
would like a definition to be made between him asking to have his entitlement 
reviewed and starting formal dispute proceedings, the policy doesnt allow for this. 
Ive similarly considered Mr Ms point that the legal landscape changed in respect of 
his claim recently, however I dont think this makes a difference to how the policy 
term should be applied.   
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman