DRN-1827443
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited trading as BUPA International (Bupa) have 
cancelled his policy of private medical insurance and asked him to reimburse them for claims 
paid for two providers from 2008 onwards. 
What happened
Mr A had an international policy with Bupa. His complaint concerns claims he made in 
respect of two physiotherapists. For simplicity Ill refer to them as physiotherapist 1 and 
physiotherapist 2.  In February 2019 Mr A called Bupa to ask for pre-authorisation for 15 
sessions of physiotherapy with physiotherapist 2. Ten sessions were subsequently agreed, 
but Mr A was told Bupa would need a progress report before they could agree to further 
sessions. After a review, Bupa said they were unable to authorise further physiotherapy with 
physiotherapist 2 and they were carrying out an audit. Bupa said Mr A could continue his 
treatment with an alternative physiotherapist, but Mr A didnt wish to do so as he felt 
physiotherapist 2 was the best and it wouldnt be ethical to do so. 
Mr As case was passed to Bupas counter fraud team, who asked Mr A to provide original 
invoices from physiotherapist 2, proof of payment of invoices, contact details for 
physiotherapist 2 and contact details for the facility she worked from. Mr A said 
physiotherapist 2 worked freelance, came to his home, produced her own invoices and she 
didnt retain them. He initially said that providing payment details violated his privacy, but 
later provided a copy of a cheque.
In April 2019 Bupa wrote to Mr A and said they had a completed a review of earlier 
physiotherapist claims with physiotherapist 1 between December 2008 and March 2017. As 
a result, Bupa asked Mr A to explain why he had made claims for treatment by 
physiotherapist 1 when she said she had never treated Mr A or his wife. Mr A said 
physiotherapist 1 had treated him in a room of a hotel and later at his daughters home. He 
provided a letter from Mr L saying he was the front office manager of the hotel at the relevant 
time and introduced Mr A to physiotherapist 1. Mr L said physiotherapist 1 had treated Mr A 
and his family from the end of 2008 to 2017. 
In May 2019 Bupa wrote to Mr A to terminate his policy from December 2008 and request 
repayment of £115,825.16 for all claims for Mr and Mrs A, who was named on Mr As policy, 
from December 2008. They said physiotherapist 1 had not treated Mr A or his wife, that all 
elements of the invoices submitted in respect of treatment by her were false and she hadnt 
treated private patients since 2011. In respect of physiotherapist 2 Bupa said the invoices 
submitted were false and signatures were cut out and re-used.  
Mr A was unhappy with Bupas decision and brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said Bupa hadnt acted unreasonably in 
concluding Mr As claims for treatment by physiotherapist 1 were fraudulent. But she said 
there wasnt enough evidence to conclude the claims made in respect of physiotherapist 2 
were fraudulent. Neither party accepted the investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to 
reach a decision. Mr A said the statement of Mr L is conclusive but wasnt properly 
considered and the opinion was based on false statements without taking in to account his 
evidence. Bupa said the investigator didnt follow the Insurance Act 2015. They said this 
because the investigator concluded that Mr As claim for treatment from physiotherapist 1 
from December 2008 was on balance fraudulent. This means Bupa can cancel Mr As policy 
from December 2008, meaning that by the time Mr A had treatment with physiotherapist 2 
from 2017 his policy no longer existed, so no claims could be met.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 24 March 2020 I said,
Mr As policy of insurance says,
Fraudulent Claims
You and any dependant (or anyone acting on behalf of you or any dependant) must not
make a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under this plan,
send us fake or forged documents or other false evidence, or make a false statement 
in support of a claim and/or
provide us with information which you or any dependant knows would otherwise 
enable us to refuse to pay a claim under this plan.
Failure to comply with the above will give us the right to
refuse to pay the whole of the claim,
recover any payments we have already made in respect of the claim and/or
notify you that this planhas terminated from the date of any of the acts or 
omissions set out above, and we will not refund the premium.
As Mr As claims for treatment by physiotherapist 1 were earlier Ill start by considering them. 
Ive seen evidence from physiotherapist 1 that leads me to conclude she did not treat Mr A 
or his wife and did not prepare the invoices he submitted in support of his claims. Her 
evidence persuades me that aspects of the invoices are false and physiotherapist 1 says 
she didnt treat private patients over many of the years Mr A claimed for. Im aware Mr A 
disputes what physiotherapist 1 told Bupa, but I consider her evidence is reliable and see no 
reason why she wouldnt be telling the truth. 
Mr A has provided a letter from Mr L, which he says is more persuasive than physiotherapist 
1s evidence. I dont agree. Mr L said after he introduced physiotherapist 1 to Mr A she 
treated him and his wife until 2017. Im not sure on what basis Mr L can say this, particularly 
as he said that at a later date physiotherapist 1 treated Mr A at his daughters home. I cant 
see that Mr L would have knowledge of this in his role as a front office manager of the hotel. 
Mr L also makes reference to helping Mr A with his claims, suggesting a personal 
relationship between Mr A and Mr L. But the most important point Ive considered is that Mr 
A says Mr L will not get involved in the investigation other than to confirm the letter. This 
means Bupa has no opportunity to verify what Mr L has said and ask further relevant 
questions. 
After careful consideration Im more persuaded by the evidence of physiotherapist 1 than Mr 
L. I consider Mr A has submitted false invoices and that Bupa have acted reasonably in 
applying their policy terms in respect of fraud and in terminating Mr As policy of private 
medical insurance from the date of the fraudulent act. The first invoice from physiotherapist 1 
was dated December 2008, so Bupa are entitled to terminate Mr As contract from this date. The law is also clear that Bupa are entitled not to meet any claims after a fraudulent act. The 
Insurance Act 2015 says,
(2) If the insurer does treat the contract as having been terminated
(a) it may refuse all liability to the insured under the contract in respect of
a relevant event occurring after the time of the fraudulent act, and
(b) it need not return any of the premiums paid under the contract.
Mr A first claimed for treatment by physiotherapist 2 in October 2017. As this is after Mr As 
policy was terminated, Bupa have no liability to Mr A for any of his claims for treatment by 
physiotherapist 2. In these circumstances Bupa can ask Mr A to repay all benefit from the 
date of the first fraudulent claim in December 2008. I understand Mr A and his wife made 
claims for treatment from physiotherapist 1 and 2 for £115,825.16, so this is the amount 
Bupa can reclaim from Mr A. Because Mr As contract has been terminated from 2008 I dont 
need to decide whether I think physiotherapist 2s invoices are genuine. 
Bupa could have asked Mr A to repay all claims from December 2008, but have chosen only 
to recover claim costs in respect of physiotherapists 1 and 2. I think thats fair.
Bupa replied and said they didnt wish to add anything for me to consider. 
Mr A didnt accept my findings. He said:
I didnt follow the right test for a serious allegation of fraud. The relevant burden in 
this case is beyond reasonable doubt, or at least a heavy burden. Bupa should have 
a watertight and compelling case which is beyond doubt. 
Ive failed to take in to account Mr As evidence hes an upstanding member of the 
community and that no-one has ever suggested hes committed fraud before. My 
decision has far-reaching consequences for him. 
Ive relied too heavily on the evidence of physiotherapist 1, who isnt telling the truth, 
and I shouldnt just believe her. Her story is inherently unlikely and suggests he got 
her name from somewhere and pretended she treated his family.
Physiotherapist 1s evidence should be examined very closely. Mr A suggests its 
likely she asked him to pay in cash because she was avoiding paying tax. 
Mr A asks why he wouldnt make up a completely fictional person if he was acting 
fraudulently.  He thinks details of his story enhance its likelihood, for example the fact 
that treatment moved to his daughters home. 
Ive ignored the evidence from the hotel manager, or not given it appropriate weight. 
The manager was independent and theres no evidence of a relationship with Mr A. 
Mr A feels the hotel managers natural reluctance to get involved in a matter that 
doesnt concern him has counted against Mr A. The manager introduced 
physiotherapist 1 to Mr A in front of other hotel staff, so his evidence doesnt stand 
alone. 
Both Mr A and his wife say physiotherapist 1 treated them, which means I need to 
consider two peoples word against one persons word. Mr A says no weight has 
been given to the fact his family back up his version of events. 
Mr A asks me to review and reverse my provisional decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Mr A says the applicable burden of proof in his case is beyond reasonable doubt. But this 
service is an informal dispute resolution service  the criminal standard of proof required for 
a successful prosecution in a court of law does not apply here. Having said that, I consider 
that to be fair to Mr A the evidence I rely on needs to be strong. 
Mr A has told me hes an upstanding member of the community, but my decision isnt about 
his community standing. Instead, my decision concerns the  individual circumstances of this 
case. 
Mr A also referred to the fact his family back up his version of events. He thinks that as he 
and his wife say physiotherapist 1 treated him, I should give more weight to their evidence 
than to physiotherapist 1s. Ive not been provided with any evidence of this. But even if I 
had, Im still more persuaded by physiotherapist 1s evidence. Its important to note 
physiotherapist 1 didnt just say she didnt treat Mr A, she also said she didnt prepare the 
invoices Mr A submitted to Bupa, aspects of them are false and she didnt treat private 
patients at all for many of the years Mr A has claimed for. Mr A has focused on whether 
physiotherapist 1 treated him and hasnt commented on the other points. Taking everything 
in to account, I dont agree with Mr A that physiotherapist 1s evidence is inherently unlikely. 
I consider its more likely than not that physiotherapist 1 didnt treat Mr A or prepare the 
invoices he submitted to Bupa. In these circumstances Mr As questions about why 
physiotherapist 1 asked him to pay cash, and a higher amount for treating in a hotel room, 
arent relevant. I also dont believe Mr As version of events is more plausible because 
physiotherapist 1 isnt a made-up person. 
I turn now to the hotel managers evidence (Mr L). I dont accept I didnt consider this 
evidence, as I commented on aspects of it in my provisional decision. But Ive placed greater 
weight on physiotherapist 1s evidence. The front office manager commented on areas I 
consider to be outside of his knowledge given his role and would not engage with Bupa to 
answer queries. I found this point particularly significant. Mr A says the manager was 
naturally reluctant to get involved in a claim that didnt involve him, but he provided a letter in 
the first place. And although Mr A says Mr L introduced physiotherapist 1 to Mr A in front of 
other hotel staff, Ive only seen evidence from Mr L. 
Having considered all the evidence, Im persuaded Bupa acted fairly and reasonably in 
cancelling Mr As policy of private medical insurance from December 2008 and in seeking 
reimbursement of his claims for treatment from physiotherapists 1 and 2 from then. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman