DRN-3160824
The complaint
Mr C complained about the standard of service he received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas) under his home emergency policy.  
What happened
One evening in February 2021, Mr C identified a radiator was leaking in his bedroom when 
his carpet was soaking wet. Mr C made a claim to British Gas under his policy in order to 
get an engineer dispatched to fix the leak. He first tried to access the emergency service via 
telephone, but through an automated service was only able to secure an appointment for ten 
days later. Mr C also tried to access the service via live chat but was offered an appointment 
for two weeks later.
Mr C used his own initiative and switched all the radiator valves off and the central heating. 
He said he then spent a bitterly cold night constantly checking the flooded area hoping that I 
had at least prevented the situation getting worse. He said he felt fearful for his life, so the 
next morning he took the initiative again to arrange a plumber to investigate and fix the leak 
at his own cost.
British Gas refunded the cost of the third-party repairs less the £60 excess on Mr Cs policy 
(with British Gas). It also offered £50 compensation for inconvenience caused. However, Mr 
C wasnt happy, he wanted his annual premium refunded.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought British Gas was fair in 
refunding the repairs less the excess, but she increased the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience by £50 as she didnt think British Gas had considered Mr Cs vulnerability. Mr 
C disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issue a provisional decision on this on 18 October 2021. I said:
British Gas said we provided a total of £50 to cover the call wait times and the fact that Mr 
C had to source a third party to complete the repairs. We do not guarantee to attend 
customers properties within certain timescales, just that we will attend within a reasonable 
timescale. We therefore offered our winter contingency scheme and you are correct that that 
was what the repairs were reimbursed to Mr C under. Overall, I still believe that we have 
handled the complaint fairly and that the goodwill gesture fairly reflects this. Even if we had 
engineer availability at the time, there is no guarantee we could have attended in day, 
meaning Mr C could have potentially been without heating / hot water overnight anyway.
I have considered Mr Cs personal circumstances. Mr C is a vulnerable customer because 
hes elderly. British Gas shouldve known this from Mr Cs personal policy details and from 
answers he provided on the live chat. I dont think British Gas did enough to identify Mr C as 
a vulnerable customer. This resulted in Mr C been provided with a standard of service that 
wasnt reasonable in his circumstances.
Mr C has told our service that hes held a home emergency policy for several years.  He 
said, the reason for taking out this contract was to avoid the possibility of being unable to 
cope or deal with an emergency. Mr C took out the policy to be reassured that if he had a 
home emergency, his issues would get resolved quickly and without any inconvenience.
British Gas were unable to support Mr C when he needed its help most. Knowing Mr C was 
vulnerable, I think it shouldve done more when he raised his claim. Unfortunately, he wasnt 
treated as a priority, instead he was given an appointment two weeks later. This wasnt 
satisfactory. If it wasnt for Mr C taking the initiative he couldve been left suffering in the cold 
for two weeks. British Gas said there was no guarantee it could have attended in a day, but I 
think as a vulnerable customer it shouldve treated him as a priority.
I dont think British Gas response was reasonable. It said it triggered its winter 
contingency. This isnt a clear process that is set out in its terms and conditions, its an 
internal process that British Gas implements when it doesnt have the capacity to offer a 
service to its customers in the winter months when demand is high. Winter contingency is 
where British Gas allows customers to source their own contractors and it refunds the costs.
However, in this complaint, British Gas did this retrospectively after Mr C had already acted. 
It hadnt intervened to deal with Mr C as a vulnerable customer and explained the options 
open to him. It only acted in this way because Mr C raised a complaint. Therefore, I dont 
think British Gas actions were reasonable in these circumstances.
Mr C has asked for a refund of his premiums. I dont think its unfair British Gas has refused 
this, as Mr C didnt cancel his policy and he was potentially benefitting from the policy if he 
suffered further problems at his home.
However, I dont think British Gas has been fair in its award to Mr C. I dont think British Gas 
shouldve deducted the £60 excess for Mr C sourcing his own plumber as it only applied its 
winter contingency retrospectively. It hadnt informed Mr C at the time of the winter 
contingency and had only offered an appointment ten days later which wasnt satisfactory in 
Mr Cs circumstances. British Gas said the terms and conditions said it could respond in a 
reasonable timeframe. I dont think it did do this. Therefore, I intend for the excess to be 
refunded. I think this is fair.
I dont think British Gas has fairly compensated for distress and inconvenience. It hasnt 
provided the service to Mr C that he has paid for. He valued the security this policy was 
meant to provide. I think the distress for Mr C wouldve been greater because of his 
circumstances and I think the inconvenience during the night of the incident and in sourcing 
his own plumber wouldve been greater for him. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. I intend 
to award a further £150 compensation for this additional distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr C accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr C:
£60  refund for the excess that was stopped
£150  compensation for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the £50 offered 
by British Gas)
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman