DRN-1622826
The complaint
Ms K complains about Ageas Insurance Limited and their decision to decline her home 
insurance claim following storm damage to her property.
What happened
In November 2018, Ms K contacted Ageas to make a claim on her home insurance after 
discovering water damage. After instructing a plumber initially, it was found the water 
damage was caused by a leak in Ms Ks roof. So, Ageas arranged for a third party company, 
P, to assess the damage and manage any repairs. Ms K arranged for a separate roofing 
company to complete a temporary repair while she waited for this inspection.
P inspected the roof, including the photos that were taken before the temporary repair, and 
decided the leak had been caused by wear and tear. They explained that moss had grown 
underneath the mortar which had led to the tiles being blown away during the storm 
conditions. So, they declined Ms Ks claim to repair the roof.
But, P led Ms K to believe that the repair costs for the internal damage would still be covered 
by her insurance policy and they offered her a sum of £2058.93 on 2 January 2019. On 11 
January, P retracted this offer after being made aware by Ageas that Ms Ks policy didnt 
include the extended accidental damage cover.
Ms K was unhappy with this so she raised a complaint. She explained she felt the roof was 
in good condition so she felt her claim for both the external and internal damage should be 
accepted. She also complained about being told incorrectly the internal damage would be 
covered. Because of this, shed proceeded to arrange repair work under the impression it 
would be covered by the insurance pay out. 
Ageas responded upholding the complaint. They said they felt theyd declined the claim fairly 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. But, they agreed that Ms K had been given 
incorrect information by P and offered her £100 to recognise this. Ms K was unhappy with 
this response so brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Ageas had 
declined the claim fairly under the terms of the policy and that the £100 offered was fair to 
recognise the incorrect information Ms K received.
Ms K didnt agree. She maintained that the roof had been in good condition and that it was 
the storm that had caused the damage, so her claim should be covered. She also said no-
one had told her about the limitations of her insurance policy so didnt think it was fair for the 
repair costs of the internal damage to also be declined. As Ms K didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
I want to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the comments and evidence that has 
been provided even if they arent referenced in this decision. Ive focused on the facts that I 
think are important and that have led me to the decision Ive made.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this situation has caused Ms K. Its clear that her 
property has been damaged due to an unforeseen storm that couldnt have been predicted. 
Ive no doubt this wouldve been stressful for Ms K and she assumed the home insurance 
she held was in place to assist her in this kind of situation.
But, I want to explain that it isnt my role to re-underwrite the claim. My role is to decide 
whether Ageas assessed the facts of Ms Ks claim fairly and reasonably against the terms 
and conditions of her policy. And in this situation, I think they have.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ks policy show that damage caused by storm conditions is 
included. But, in the general conditions and exclusions it also explains No cover is provided 
for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually.
Ive seen the report sent to Ageas by P after theyd attended Ms Ks property. This report 
concluded that the damage to Ms Ks roof had been caused due to wear and tear, meaning 
that the storm had then caused tiles to be displaced. 
Ms K has explained shes unhappy with this as P didnt inspect the roof first hand and 
instead declined the claim based on the photos provided by the roofer that completed the 
temporary repair. But, I wouldnt expect P to have dismantled the temporary repair that was 
preventing any further damage to Ms Ks property. So, I think they were reasonable to make 
a decision based on the photos that were provided.
I can see Ageas explained to Ms K that for them to challenge this decision, theyd need two 
independent inspection reports challenging Ps decision. I cant see that Ms P has provided 
these. Ive seen a text from the roofer who completed the temporary repair and an invoice 
that explained the ridge had been renewed. But, they didnt comment on the upkeep of Ms 
Ks roof or the reasoning for the tiles to have been displaced during the storm. The photos 
Ive seen show that moss was present on the roof when the temporary repair was 
completed. So, based on the evidence I have available, I think its likely that the condition of 
the roof contributed to the damage, both internally and externally, caused during the storm. 
Because of this, I think Ageas acted fairly when applying the general exclusion relating to 
claims resulting from wear and tear. So, I cant agree theyve done anything wrong by 
declining the claim.
But, Ive seen that P advised Ms K that the internal damages would be covered under her 
insurance policy and made an offer of payment to cover this. Its not disputed by Ageas that 
this was a mistake as Ms Ks policy didnt included the extended accidental damage. 
Although Ive considered Ms Ks comments about not being made aware that this level of 
cover would be beneficial to her, it wasnt Ageas who sold the insurance policy. They act as 
the underwriters. So any complaint about mis-selling of the policy would need to be made to 
Ms Ks bank, who she took the insurance out with.
Ms K has provided invoices and quotations of work she instigated in the period of time 
between being told the damages would be covered and the retraction of that offer. While I understand why Ms K feels the advice she received left her out of pocket as she was 
expecting a refund, I dont think it did. 
As the roof was damaged, I think that the repair work would need to be carried out whether 
the claim was covered or not. So had P given Ms K the correct information that the internal 
damages would also not be covered, I think its likely that Ms K wouldve continued to 
complete the necessary repair work. Because of this, I dont think its fair for me to say that 
Ageas should cover any costs she incurred during this time.
But I do think Ms K wouldve been left shocked and confused when being told she would 
receive a financial contribution only to be told that she wouldnt. P failed to manage her 
expectations correctly and I think Ageas had a responsibility to make sure P fully understood 
the level of cover her insurance policy held. Ageas offered £100 to recognise the 
inconvenience this caused Ms K and I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances. So, I 
dont think Ageas need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman