DRN-4140731
The complaint
Mr T complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket (Quidmarket) gave him 
loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr T took sevens loans from Quidmarket, and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
daterepayment 
period 
(months)highest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 25/03/2019 28/06/2019 3 £157.33
2 £275.00 30/06/2019 30/09/2019 3 £139.03
3 £360.00 23/10/2019 31/01/2020 3 £191.67
4 £300.00 04/05/2020 30/09/2020 5 £106.69
5 £400.00 03/11/2020 31/03/2021 5 £143.85
6 £750.00 02/04/2021 31/08/2021 5 £263.01
7 £700.00 02/09/2021 08/07/2022 5 £252.69
Following Mr Ts complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter, and it didnt uphold 
his complaint. Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it 
offered to remove these loans from Mr Ts credit file. Mr T didnt accept the offer and instead 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold the complaint about 
loans 1  5. In relation to loans 6 and 7 she thought the lending had now become harmful for 
Mr T and so she upheld those loans. 
Mr T accepted the adjudicators findings.  
Quidmarket didnt responded to the adjudicators assessment despite being prompted for a 
response and being given extra time. As Quidmarket hadnt responded to the adjudicators 
assessment in order to bring this matter to a close, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ts
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T. The adjudicator thought this point 
was reached by the time loan 6 was granted. 
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
Quidmarket didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment, so I dont know what if anything 
it thinks the adjudicator may have missed in her assessment. But Mr T accepted the 
adjudicators outcome including the fact she didnt uphold loans 1  5. To me, this suggests 
these loans are no longer in dispute and therefore I will say no more about them. Instead, 
this decision will focus on whether Quidmarket did all it ought to have done before advancing 
loans 6 and 7. 
Loans 6 and 7
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Quidmarket did before each loan which included 
asking Mr T for details of his income and expenditure and carry out a credit check. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Quidmarkets lending history with Mr T, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Quidmarket should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quidmarket should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:At this point Quidmarket ought to have realised Mr T was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr T had taken out his six loans in 24 months. So Quidmarket 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
I accept there was a gap in lending between loans 3 and 4 of around three months. 
But I dont think that was enough to break the chain given how long Mr T had been 
borrowing from Quidmarket. But even removing this gap from the total time Mr T had 
been indebted this still meant it was his sixth loan in around 21 months of borrowing. 
From his first loan, Mr T was generally provided with a new loan shortly after the 
previous loan had been repaid, for example, before loan 6 there was only a gap of 
two days. And as Ive said above, there was one larger gap of around three months, 
but I dont think that alone shows that Mr T wasnt likely borrowing to fill a short-term 
hole in his finances. To me, at times, the quick up take in borrowing is a sign that 
Mr T was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in his income rather than as a 
short-term need.  
Mr Ts first loan was for £300 and loan 6 was for more than double - £750.  At this 
point Quidmarket ought to have known that Mr T was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quidmarket. Loan 7 was 
taken out 29 months after Mr Ts first loan and was to be repaid over a longer term of 
five months. His final loan was also the second largest and the monthly repayments 
were only marginally smaller than what he was paying for loan 6. Mr T had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Quidmarket over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr T lost out when Quidmarket provided loans 6 and 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint about loans 6 and 7 and Ive outlined below what 
Quidmarket needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 6 and 7 to Mr T, as Im satisfied it ought not to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr T in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr T loans 6 and 7.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr T which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Mr T the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ts borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any information 
Quidmarket has recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr T as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman