DRN-1464665
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Virgin Money plc unfairly registered a default on his credit file and also 
complains about how it handled his account.
What happened
Mr L says in July 2018 he accidently cancelled his direct debit that was set up to pay Virgin. 
He says he couldn't find any account statements as he had moved address and had 
destroyed his account card and so couldn't pass Virgin's security questions when he spoke 
to it about his debt. Mr L says he didn't receive any letters about the default but Virgin must 
have had his new address as he did receive a letter from it at his new address. He says he 
told Virgin in October 2018 that he had moved and asked it to make contact with it, so he 
could set up a new payment method. Mr L would like the default removed and for Virgin to 
apologise for what took place.
Virgin says it's not made a mistake and says it sent Mr L numerous letters and called him 
about the debt. It says it's Mr L's responsibility to update his address and has provided 
accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's). Virgin says, as Mr L didn't 
make any monthly payments for over eight months, it correctly registered a default on his 
credit file.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator thought 
it was Mr L's responsibility to update Virgin with his new address and that it had acted in line 
with account terms and conditions by accurately reporting the account position to the CRA's. 
The investigator thought Virgin had tried to speak to Mr L about the debt and that he ought to 
have known about the debt.
Mr L didn't accept that view and says Virgin's actions were unprofessional and that he did e-
mail Virgin in October 2018 about his position and that Virgin should have called him about 
the debt. He also says he didn't agree to the account terms and conditions when his account 
was changed to a Virgin account .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
There is no dispute here that Mr L cancelled the direct debit to Virgin in July 2018. I can see 
that he told us it was done by accident. But that he told Virgin, in his e-mail to it in October 
2018, that he cancelled the direct debit as he thought the balance was cleared. It's not clear 
which version is correct. But I think the problem was caused by the cancellation of the direct 
debit and Mr L ought to have known in July 2018 that he owed Virgin money. In those 
circumstances I would have expected Mr L to have tried to sort matters out in July 2018 and to have checked the amount he owed.
I don't think Virgin made a mistake by registering a default on Mr L's credit file in 2019 as I 
think by that point, Mr L had missed about eight payments. And I think Virgin was entitled to 
reasonably conclude the relationship between it and Mr L had broken down. I'm satisfied that 
Virgin's action was in line with the account terms and conditions, which I think Mr L agreed 
to. And I think Virgin has a responsibility to accurately report the position of its customers 
accounts to the CRA's.
I'm satisfied that Virgin made a number of attempts to speak to Mr L and wrote to him on 
numerous occasions having looked at its records. I appreciate Mr L says he moved address 
but I don't think he told Virgin what that new address was, as I would have expected him to 
have done. I can see that Mr L did e-mail Virgin in October 2018 and asked it to contact him 
and told it that he had moved. But I don't think Mr L gave details of that new address in that 
e-mail. I appreciate that Mr L says he didn't receive the notice of default as it was sent to his 
old address but I'm satisfied it was sent to the address Virgin held for Mr L and that it ought 
to have been obvious to Mr L that the account would default if he didn't make any payments.
I can see that a letter was sent in March 2019 to Mr L's new address. I think it likely on 
balance that either Virgin or the business it sold the debt to carried out its own enquiries to 
find out the new address. I don't think it matters in any event, as I can see the default had 
been registered by that stage and I have made clear that I think Mr L ought to have been 
aware such action was inevitable.
Overall I'm satisfied that Virgin hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also think that Mr L 
did agree to Virgin's account terms and conditions when it took over his credit card account. 
I think that it was up to Mr L to pay the debt and that could have paid it off by other methods 
if he wished, for example by a cheque payment or transfer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman