DRN-4006065
The complaint
Ms L and Mr S complain about the costs incurred when Lloyds Bank PLC completed foreign 
exchanges following transfers to their account. 
What happened
Ms L and Mr S have a current account with Lloyds and have explained that they needed to 
transfer funds that were held in dollars. Before doing so, Ms L and Mr S have told us they 
spoke with staff at Lloyds and asked about the charges involved in transferring funds. Ms L 
and Mr S have advised they were only told about a £7 charge that would be applied to the 
transfers but there was no mention of any margins being added to the exchange rate used 
by Lloyds. 
Ms L and Mr S transferred funds in July 2019, November 2021 and March 2022. Each time, 
Lloyds applied a £7 fee and used its exchange rate to convert the funds to sterling. Following 
the transfer in March 2022 Ms L and Mr S complained to Lloyds as they found that in 
addition to the £7 charge, a margin had been applied to the exchange rate. As a result, Ms L 
and Mr S have explained they received substantially less than they were expecting. 
Lloyds issued a final response letter but didnt uphold Ms L and Mr S complaint. Lloyds said 
its exchange rates are subject to change and contain a margin. 
Ms L and Mr S referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
As part of their submission, Ms L and Mr S forwarded recordings of questions theyd asked 
staff that they feel make it clear the costs involved in receiving a payment in a foreign 
currency arent clearly explained. Ms L and Mr S told us they were expecting to pay charges 
of £7 when receiving the payment into their account but werent aware Lloyds would apply a 
margin to when carrying out the conversion. 
The investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with Ms L and Mr Ss complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to take further action. Ms L and Mr S asked to appeal and said the nature of the costs 
involved in receiving foreign currency transfers wasnt clearly explained in the terms and 
conditions or online. Ms L and Mr S also explained they werent told about the additional 
foreign exchange charges which were caused by the margin Lloyds applies. Ms L and Mr S 
added that they could have got more competitive exchange rates via another business. 
As Ms L and Mr S asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Ms L and Mr S have explained that since 2019 theyve asked various members of staff what 
the charge is for receiving transfers in a foreign currency is and have been consistently told 
its £7. But none of the staff they asked about charges told them about the margin Lloyds 
applies when completing the foreign exchange. Ms L and Mr S have forwarded recordings of 
their subsequent queries to Lloyds. 
In the recordings provided, Mr S asked each member of staff whether Lloyds applies a 
charge. And each time, the member of staff confirmed theres a charge of £7. During one of 
the conversations, the member of staff does say the funds will be converted using the rate 
on the day, but doesnt give further information. But I think its fair to say that in the 
recordings that have been forwarded, Mr S asks whether there is a charge for receiving the 
transfer, not what exchange rate is used. In my view, the members of staff answered the 
question Mr S asked in the recordings. To put it another way, had Mr S asked the members 
of staff what exchange rate would be used and whether Lloyds applies a margin when 
converting foreign currency, I think its more likely than not that they wouldve been given 
that information. 
Ms L and Mr S have told us the margin Lloyds applied when converting their dollars to 
sterling isnt disclosed in the terms or on its website. But Ive looked at Lloyds website and 
the page that gives details of the costs involved in receiving a foreign currency transfer. The 
website says theres a fee of £7 for receiving transfers from outside the UK or in a foreign 
currency with a value of over £100. The same section says Well convert the money youve 
received into pounds on the day we pay it into your account using our standard exchange 
rate for receiving money from outside the UK or in a foreign currency. In my view, the 
information is clear in saying Lloyds will use its exchange rate. Theres no reference to 
Lloyds using the interbank rate to complete the conversion. Further down the page theres a 
section called What exchange rate will I receive? in which the margins applicable are set 
out. 
The terms and conditions displayed on Lloyds website also give full details of the margins it 
applies to foreign currency exchange rates along with the £7 charge applicable. Ms L and Mr 
S have sent us an excerpt from a set of terms they have retained and highlighted the other 
services section. The sections says theres a £7 fee for receiving electronic payments from 
outside the UK or in a foreign currency. And that is in line with the charge Lloyds applied 
when receiving the transfers in dollars. Im sorry to disappoint Ms L and Mr S but I havent 
been persuaded Lloyds acted outside of its terms and conditions. 
Lloyds has forwarded the systems notations that record the receipt and conversion of each 
of the transfers. They all show a £7 charge was applied and that the funds were converted to 
sterling using the applicable rate on the day. So Im satisfied charges of £7 were applied 
each time a transfer was received. 
Ms L and Mr S have told us they thought Lloyds would use the interbank exchange rate 
when completing the conversion. But the interbank rate is the exchange rate banks using 
when trading currency with other banks. Its not something thats generally available to 
customers on a retail banking basis. And I understand Ms L and Mr S later found another 
business wouldve completed the conversions and transfers at a lower cost. But I think that 
reflects the commercial discretion of the different businesses rather than showing Lloyds has 
made a mistake or treated them unfairly by using the rate it applies. Im very sorry to disappoint Ms L and Mr S but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds has 
made a mistake in terms of the information provided about its charges. And Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds acted unfairly by applying a margin to the foreign exchanges it 
completed when receiving transfers in dollars. As Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with Ms L and 
Mr Ss complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms L and Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman