DRN-3567175
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Aviva Insurance Limited provided poor service and 
undervalued their written-off car when they made a claim on their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M were involved in a traumatic, non-fault incident on 18 July 2021. They 
complained to Aviva about its poor communication, plus undue delay in the claims-handling 
process, as the settlement sum for the car wasnt paid until 12 October 2021. Aviva 
apologised for its shortcomings. It waived the £450 policy excess and paid them £250 for 
distress and inconvenience, plus £321.38 interest on the cost of the replacement car theyd 
bought. Its final offer to them for their written-off car was £17,500. 
As Mr M and Mrs M were dissatisfied with Avivas offers, one of our investigators reviewed 
their complaint. He thought it had acted reasonably in trying to put right its poor service. He 
also thought its offer for their car was reasonable. Having checked the national trade guides, 
he said Aviva had paid more than we would have suggested it should pay for the car. 
Mr M and Mrs M said they agreed (reluctantly) to accept the investigators view about the 
general compensation. But they said Aviva hadnt offered them the market value of their car 
in line with the definition of market value set out in its policy booklet. They said it had offered 
them the value of the car just before its loss, based on trade guide valuations, when the 
policy said market value was the cost of replacing the vehicle. Mr and Mrs M said theyd paid 
£19,749 for a similar car to theirs (but a year younger). They said second-hand car prices 
had risen sharply worldwide and that similar cars to their old one were hard to find. 
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs M have accepted that the general compensation paid by Aviva was 
adequate, I wont comment on it, other than to say that I think the offer was fair.
In terms of market value, although the policy says thats the cost of replacing a car, I think 
its implicit that the cost of doing so is the reasonable cost of a replacement. Otherwise, a 
consumer could buy a replacement car with no regard to the asking price, which clearly 
wouldnt be acceptable to any insurer. In my opinion, the underlying issue is how best to 
establish the reasonable cost of a replacement car. 
We look at whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably. Valuing cars can be difficult, 
but we have an established approach to it, which means relying on trade guide valuations in 
most cases. We think the guides are the best way to establish a reasonable replacement 
sum for a lost or written-off car. We encourage insurers to follow our approach - and in 
general they do. We dont find adverts helpful, as they can often show prices that are much 
higher than sales prices. And there can often be large variations in the prices asked for 
similar cars. I think the research carried out by Mr M and Mrs M reflects that fact. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Aviva to offer Mr and Mrs M £17,500 for their car, as 
that sum exceeds the valuations in the trade guides. Those valuations are based on 
extensive, ongoing research into the likely selling prices of vehicles. So I think its fair to say 
that theyre likely to reflect current market trends. I also think its reasonable to assume that if 
an insurer has established a cars likely sales price, using current trade guide valuations at 
the time of loss, it should be possible to replace the car for around that sum. 
The car Mr M and Mrs M bought to replace their old one was a newer model - and they may 
have paid a premium to the dealership for items included in the sale. So although Aviva 
offered more than the top valuation shown in the trade guides (which I think was fair) it still 
fell short of the price they paid for the car  and they think Aviva is in breach of contract. In 
my opinion thats not the case, but its an issue on which only a court can make a finding.  
Its clear from the correspondence on the file that Mr M and Mrs M have had to deal with an 
exceptionally unpleasant incident and its aftermath, and that they continue to be affected by 
what happened. I sympathise greatly with the situation theyve found themselves in, and I 
appreciate that the poor service from Aviva can only have made them feel even worse. But 
as I think Aviva made a reasonable attempt to put the poor service issues right  and that it 
offered Mr and Mrs M a fair sum to replace their car, I cant uphold their complaint.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman