DRN-3479493
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc wont refund money they lost when failing 
victim to two investment scams.
For ease of reference, unless referred to individually, Ill use the tile the complainants when 
addressing Mr and Mrs M. 
What happened
Where the particulars of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope the 
complainants or Santander wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
In short, the complainants are disputing card transactions totalling in the region of £175,000, 
along with eight international payment transfers amounting to just under £100,000. The card 
transactions were made to a company call Rodeler Limited, at a time when Mr M was 
persuaded to invest with this online trading platform. 
A matter of months afterwards, both the complainants started a relationship with a separate 
firm, which for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as P. Unbeknown to the 
complainants at the time, both these firms were operating scams and in fact stole their 
money. 
Santander was able to recover all of the card transactions via a recovery process known as 
chargeback. Conversely, none of the international payments to P were able to be reclaimed. 
The complaint centres around the complainants view that Santander ought to have done 
more to protect them from both these companies. Santander disagrees. 
Upon bringing the complaint to our service, our investigator considered what happened and, 
ultimately, wasnt convinced that Santander should refund more than it has already. Because 
the complainants arent in agreement with this, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cannot safely conclude that Santander ought to refund more of the 
complainants financial loss. Ill explain why. 
relevant considerations
Its common ground that all of the payments in question were authorised for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the most relevant regulation in this case. In 
broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PSRs and the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
Still, where the consumer(s) made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the loss even 
though they authorised the payment.
With this and the various principles of good practice in mind, its reasonable to expect 
Santander to have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its consumers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, to have carried out additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect consumers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Santanders fraud prevention measures were triggered during the series of 
payments made to both of the scams. On a number of occasions, the bank did intervene and 
check with Mr M before letting payments leave the account. Accordingly, the key questions 
are; whether Santander did enough in all the circumstances; and, providing it did, whether 
this wouldve made a material difference to the complainants experiencing this financial loss. 
Determining what difference (if any) further steps wouldve made can otherwise be referred 
to as causation. In order for me to require Santander to refund the disputed payments on 
the grounds of causation, I would need to be satisfied that the bank taking further steps 
wouldve prevented the loss here. 
the disputed transactions to Rodeler Limited
Santander agreed to return all of the payments to Rodeler, amounting to approximately 
£175,000 as described. So, in effect, this element of the case has already been resolved by 
the bank being able to recover what was sent. Notwithstanding this, determining whether 
Santander ought to have reasonably prevented these payments still forms part of my 
considerations. Drawing this conclusion has a bearing on whether the bank ought to have 
done more with the second series of payments to P that ensued.  
So far as I am reasonably aware, all of the payments in question were made to Rodeler (or 
its subsidiaries). At the time the transactions were made, Rodeler was passported into the 
UK and permitted to undertake certain regulated business by our domestic regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
In late May 2020, these passporting rights were removed and Rodelers status updated to 
reflect that there was a supervisory notice about its operating practices. Shortly afterwards, 
Rodeler was recognised as contravening certain trading principles. In other words, given the 
trading techniques it had employed, the FCA decided to remove its status as an approved 
investment trader in the UK. It has since been accepted that Rodeler were operating a scam 
at the time Mr M made the contested payments to its platform. 
I have therefore reached my findings on the basis that these transactions went to what as at 
the time a firm approved by the FCA  although this subsequently changed, after Mr M had 
sent his final payment to this firm. All of which, is reflected by the FCAs financial services 
register, which is updated as and when new intel becomes apparent about a firm. It's a fundamental principle that Santander should pay close attention to the FCAs insight in 
accordance with the regulatory system. In view of that, its a reasonable expectation that 
Santander would rely heavily on the intelligence its own regulator shares, including the 
information published on the financial services register. 
So, when the bank had intervening conversations with Mr M about these payments, its not 
unfair if part of its decision making depended on the fact that Rodeler was FCA approved at 
the time. I find this significant when considering whether Santander went far enough with its 
interventions for the complainants account. I say so because, ascertaining details such as 
who the money is being paid to and its intended purpose is widely accepted as good practice 
within the banking industry. Not least, because it tends to afford bank staff a more informed 
position when deciding whether to proceed with the payment instruction without further 
enquiries.
On multiple occasions Santander asked Mr M about the nature and destination of the 
payments. Ive listened to call recordings that demonstrate that Mr M was comfortable with 
the payments, assuring the bank that he was happy to continue with the so-called 
investments, despite bank staff warning of the fraud risks associated with certain trading 
ventures. When questioned about some of the transactions being sent overseas, Mr M was 
equally as happy to commence the payments  he repeatedly told the bank he was satisfied 
with what he was doing. Indeed, at one point in the sequence of payments, he became 
frustrated at having to keep verifying the transactions before Santander would let them go. 
There was no mention or indication of a third party  it was just Mr M and Rodeler affecting a 
relationship. By his own admission, Rodeler had convinced Mr M that they were not only 
genuine  but initially his investments were doing well. This was reinforced with persuasive 
material, as Mr M was able to see a superficial Rodeler portal which he thought showed 
exactly where his money was and how it was being used to trade. Mr M has said that 
seeing his investments gave him further assurances that everything was above board. 
Mr M was even told that his account status would be upgraded to reflect the progress he had 
made with his trades, to the extent that he was regarded as a professional trader by 
Rodeler. This was in spite of him being an unexperienced investor that had never traded 
before. As I see it, this shows the compelling techniques employed by Rodeler that were 
successful in convincing Mr M that he was proficiently dealing on the financial markets and 
was making a profit. That being the case, he saw no need to doubt his money was within his 
possession having been sent from his Santander account. 
I also have to bear in mind that it was apparent that Mr M had received a return on his 
investments. Rodeler had paid him £4,413 in late April 2020, representing a portion of profit 
on his trades. Again, its fair to say that this reinforced Mr Ms belief that everything was 
above board  he thought he was successfully transacting with Rodeler and able to claim 
back a return on his investment, which was of course his exact intention. 
Overall, the evidence strongly suggests that Mr M had a sense of security and assurance 
about what Rodeler had put in place for him. From Santanders standpoint, this was not a 
consumer that had been tricked into paying an unregulated firm. On the contrary, Mr M had 
told bank staff on numerous occasions that he was sure of what what he was doing, having 
conducted research into this investment scheme and experienced success so far. Thus, on 
the face of things, these were simply authorised transactions to a genuine investment firm 
registered in Cyprus, that was authorised to provide consumers with the ability to trade 
certain financial instruments through an online platform.  All of this casts significant doubt on causation. Ultimately, I am not convinced that  but for 
additional questioning from Santander about these transactions  the scam wouldve been 
stopped, and the complainants payments prevented from that point onwards. 
the second set of disputed transactions
I appreciate the complainants argument that if Santander had been able to prevent their 
financial loss with Rodeler (although this has since been reimbursed), this would naturally 
have averted the second group of transactions for which they havent been refunded. The 
course of action was that one followed the other; Mr and Mrs M have made it clear that they 
only chose to open a relationship with P because they needed to recoup the losses incurred 
on their investment with Rodeler. They saw it at the time that Rodeler was not operating a 
scam, but had nonetheless left them in a difficult financial position as a result of 
unsuccessful (but legitimate) trading  so they looked to make back some of these losses.
For the reasons given above, I am not persuaded that additional questioning from Santander 
would have led to Mr M becoming credulous about the true purpose of the card payments 
before it was too late. I therefore do not think that Santanders acts/omissions ought 
reasonably to have led to these secondary payments to P automatically being avoided on 
account of one stopping the other. 
Its not that straightforward regardless, as the complainants willingly sent the payments on a 
voluntary basis. It cannot be ignored that it was the complainants act of making these further 
payments thats the true cause of the loss and not Santanders. Certainly, from a legal 
perspective, its arguable that the independent payments to P acted as a new and 
intervening cause of the loss that equates to a break in the chain of causation.   
But in any case, it's not in question that Santander stepped in again, multiple times, when 
the complainants started to pay P. Ive listened to recordings of the conversations shared 
between Mr M and the bank, whereby Santander asked probing questions and shared scam 
warnings again. Its evident that Mr M was keen to send the payments as planned and 
answered the banks queries without hesitation  he made it clear he wanted to proceed. 
So, like the first collection of payments, Mr M was given warnings about the risk of fraud and 
scams but went ahead nonetheless. To give another example, during one particular call, 
bank staff specified that certain fraudulent outfits pose as genuine investment firms that 
pretend to trade on the financial markets as a way of stealing money. It was also stressed 
that being contacted out of the blue (or cold called) was a hallmark of such scams. In fact, 
the member of staff at Santander talked through an example he had experienced of a scam 
with the practices and techniques near identical to both Rodeler and P.  
Despite this, Mr M did not reveal to Santander that he had in fact been contacted by P and 
invited to trade using a platform without an apparent explanation for how his contact details 
had been obtained. Everything suggests the complainants were cold called  yet, this wasnt 
shared with Santander even with bank staff giving repeated warnings. I have to consider that 
this omission swayed the intervention from Santander in favour of it not pursuing with this 
line of questioning any further. 
Had Mr M informed the bank of what had really happened, it mightve gone further with its 
insight sharing about these types of scams. Mr Ms responses did not invite further probing 
on the matter  he simply answered that he had been dealing with P for a few months and all 
payments had reached their desired destination so far. Whats more, in spite of the notice about investment scams, Mr M did not mention to the 
bank during any of these intervening calls that he had recently lost around £175,000 to 
another trading platform. Given the sheer size of this accumulative loss, together with the 
likeness of Rodeler to the specific scam description bank staff gave, I think this conflicts with 
Mr Ms statement that he wouldve refrained from proceeding with the payments had 
Santander given him more industry knowledge. Omitting to inform the bank of this crucial 
information undoubtedly had a bearing on if Santander shouldve enquired further. 
For all intents and purposes, this would reasonably have given Santander the impression 
that this was a consumer that had investment experience, trading before in large sums of 
money and not raising any corresponding disputes with the bank. When in fact, had 
Santander been made aware of the vast losses the complainants had suffered, or even 
perhaps just the complaint that they had raised against Rodeler directly, it wouldve afforded 
bank staff a far more informed position and duly warranted a more robust response. 
When questioned about why they did not inform the bank about the dispute they were having 
with Rodeler, or the loss incurred, the complainants have conceded that they were both so 
utterly convinced by the seemingly credible techniques of P, along with the persuasive 
material theyd been given about their trading account, that they simply did not see the need 
to. As a matter of general impression, having just incurred a substantial loss on a prior 
investment, and in light of raising a consequential complaint, I have to consider that the 
complainants actions demonstrated a real confidence in Ps legitimacy in order to go again 
with such an investment venture without mentioning it to their bank. Even more so, when   
Mr M was put on notice about the array of scams that held tantamount characteristics and 
probed about how the relationship had come about.
All of this circumstantiates my findings that more advanced questioning or warning from 
Santander would probably not have stopped the secondary scam. Because, despite clearly 
being troubled about experiencing a significant financial loss in recent months, Mr M still did 
not pause to think twice about the payments to P, nor make Santander aware of what he had 
just encountered with a very similar scheme. 
In light of this and what Ive set out above, I am not convinced that due questioning from 
Santander would have unearthed what was really happening  whether that intervention 
came at the point of the payments to Rodeler or with these final transactions to P. On these 
grounds, and while I have a great deal of sympathy with the complainants being the victim of 
what were clearly two cruel scams, I do not judge it fair or reasonable for Santander to 
reimburse any more of their financial losses here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman