DRN-2370553
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he obtained through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Black Horse 
Limited (Black Horse) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to sell the car to recover the cost 
of a new engine he had to have installed, to cancel his finance agreement, to be refunded 
the payments he has made to date along with the cost of repairs he has 
What happened
Mr D says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement in July 2018 for a six-year-old car with 
63,889 miles on the clock.
He says the day he got the car it over heated , he took it back to the garage the next day but 
says the garage now tells him it has no record of this.
He says the car continued to overheat until the engine finally stopped working. He says it 
has cost him around £1,400 to repair the car. And an independent garage told him that the 
problem was that the cylinder head had been over skimmed.
Black Horse found no evidence Mr D had a problem with the car the day he got it. It noted 
that the ignition coil pack and spark plugs had been replaced in July 2018 at no cost to Mr D. 
As this was so soon after the point of sale it felt the problem was present when Mr D got the 
car. So it offered Mr D £150 compensation along with £25 for the time he was without the car 
at this point but Mr D declined this.
Black Horse commissioned an independent report which concluded that previous repairs 
were carried out to a high standard and wouldnt have impacted on the engine failing. And 
there was no evidence there was an issue with the engine at the point of sale. So it didnt 
feel it was responsible for the engine failure.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found there had been issues with the car at 
the point of sale, but these had been appropriately addressed by the replacement of parts at 
no cost to Mr D and by  the compensation Black Horse offered. Based on the fact Mr D had 
driven the car for approximately 10,000 miles before the engine failed and the conclusions of 
the independent report, he didnt feel there was any evidence of an issue with the engine at 
the point of sale.
Mr D didnt accept this view. He didnt feel all the points of his complaint had been 
addressed for example the anomalies on the MOT and registration certificate, and he said 
the previous owner had confirmed the faults with the car when it was traded in. And he 
reiterated  he had taken the car back the day after he got it.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. Black Horse said it was  
possible that incorrect date of ownership might be explained by  a previous cancelled sale 
but couldnt confirm this. In terms of the mileage this had been noted as 60,00 at the MOT in 
February 2018 and whilst Mr D had said the previous owner had confirmed he wouldnt have 
driven 4,000 miles before selling it to the dealership, our investigator  felt he had seen 
nothing to confirm this wasnt the case. He added that the Black Horse had confirmed that 
the few miles difference between the mileage from the MOT in June 2018 and on the 
agreement Mr D signed was an administrative mistake. Our investigator appreciated these 
anomalies might be frustrating he didnt feel they were grounds to allow Mr D to reject the 
car.
Mr D didnt accept this further view from our investigator. He felt the transfer of ownership 
document was fraudulent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D feels strongly about his complaint and I do appreciate it has caused him a degree of 
stress. So I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator.
Mr D took out an agreement for a used car with significant mileage.  So, he might expect to 
have more wear, tear and repair issues than for example with a new car.
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. If problems arise 
within the first six months of having a vehicle, we usually say its up to the business to 
investigate and to carry out repairs or allow rejection if appropriate.
If issues arise after six months, we usually say its the owners responsibility to show if 
issues were present or developing at the point of sale.
I appreciate in this case Mr D says he took his car back to the garage the day after he got it 
as it was over heating. There is no agreement over this  the business has no record or 
recollection of this happening so I cant be sure that it did.
But Mr D told us that the car continued to overheat. So I am surprised he continued to use it 
until June 2019 nearly a year after he had the car, at which point the engine failed. Or that if 
this problem continued, he didnt go back to the garage about this . The notes from the 
business that I have seen only show work being carried out to replace the ignition coil pack 
and parts in August 2018. The next contact from Mr D was to say the car had broken down 
in June 2019. 
Although Mr D only complained to Black Horse in July 2019 nearly a year after he had the 
car it arranged an independent inspection. The engine couldnt be inspected in its state of 
failure as Mr D had already had the engine replaced.
I have read the independent report carefully. Its clear from the report that Mr D had covered 
approximately 10,000 miles by the time the engine failed and needed replacing. This was 
over a twelve-month period. The report clearly states that any fault with the engine wouldnt 
have been caused by any previous poor repairs. And that the selling agent had no 
responsivity for the failed engine. It didnt identify any point of sale issues for which Black 
Horse would be liable. I found the report conclusive. So, on that basis I dont think I can 
reasonably expect Black Horse to allow Mr D to end his finance agreement in the way that 
he would wish.
Mr D also raised an issue with the front passenger tyre and wheel being distorted. But we 
have no evidence to show this was the case when Mr D got the car. The relevant MOT 
shows an advisory but for a different tyre. And the HPI completed at the point of sale makes no reference to the car being involved in an accident. So, on that basis I dont feel  I can 
reasonably hold Black Horse responsible for this.
Mr D additionally has raised the issue of the V5 document with the date of ownership 
showing as 24 May 2018, but his finance agreement is dated 5 July 2018. He also states the 
previous owner denied driving 4,000 miles from the MOT date of 5 June 2018 until Mr D took 
ownership of the car.
Ive looked at these and can see that the V5C states that Mr D became the owner of
the car on 24 May 2018, however his finance agreement is dated 5 July 2018. In regard to 
the mileage, I can see that it is recorded on the agreement as 63,889. However, on the MOT
(dated 5 June 2018) it is recorded as 63,894, and in the service book (dated 16 February
2018) it is recorded as 60,000.
I appreciate there are some anomalies here that would be frustrating for Mr D. Black Horse 
has said the V5 document transfer date may relate to a previous failed sale. I dont know if 
that is the case or not, but I dont feel there is any evidence of fraud. And I dont feel this 
anomaly is grounds to allow Mr D to reject the car.
With regard to the mileage there is no actual  evidence to confirm the previous  owner didnt 
drive 4,000 miles between February and June 2018. And Black Horse has explained that the 
few miles difference between the mileage noted in the MOT in June 2018 and the mileage 
noted on Mr Ds finance agreement was an administrative mistake. I think is a reasonable 
explanation and not grounds to allow Mr D to reject the car. 
I understand that Black originally offered Mr D £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
for the work that needed to be carried out on the car in August 2018. And £25 to cover the 
loss of use of the car whilst this work was being done. We have checked with Black Horse 
and this offer is still available. I leave it to Mr D to decide if he wishes to take this up or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman