DRN-3192454
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms W was given two loans by Everyday Loans. The details are given below:
Loan Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments
1 March 2017 36 £3000 £177.68
2 July 2019 24 £3000 £244.40
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought Everyday Loans had been 
wrong to provide Ms W with the loans. They concluded that Everyday Loans didnt make a 
fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it for loans 1 and 2.
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment for loan 1. It said even with 
a lower income figure, it would still have given Ms W the loan as she would have had 
enough disposable income. It also doesnt agree with the investigators calculation of Ms Ws 
living expenses from the bank statements it had in front of it. It says it agrees with the 
investigators findings on loan 2. 
As Everyday Loans disagrees about the investigators findings for loan 2 and the complaint 
hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law.
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Ms Ws complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms W would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
As the lender, Everyday Loans should have taken steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms W 
irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Ms W.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms W would be able repay her loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Everyday Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the 
loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
joint financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Ms W.
Loan 1
Everyday Loans on the occasion it lent to Ms W, asked for information about her income and 
expenditure. It also says it carried out a credit check and used bank statements along with a 
payslip to verify what Ms W was saying. It also used an average figure of 35% of Ms Ws 
declared monthly income to work out what it thought her living expenses would come to.
I agree with our Investigator that Everyday Loans checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan application. But, like the 
investigator, I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision when it lent to 
Ms W based on the information it had gathered. I say this because I dont think 
Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what all the information it had gathered 
showed about Ms Ws overall financial situation. 
Everyday Loans recorded a figure of around £1655 for Ms Ws monthly earnings, it then 
says it verified this through checking bank statements and a payslip. It then applied an 
amount in respect of her normal monthly living costs using its 35% of income average. It 
gathered information that showed her existing credit commitments cost her approximately 
£618 a month. It assessed Ms W to have disposable income of around £280 after it factored 
in the monthly loan repayment.
I agree with the investigators findings about Ms Ws income at this time. I can see that 
Everyday Loans used a figure of £1655 but on her bank statements she received a lower 
figure of around £1438. I think on seeing this, Everyday Loans ought to have looked further 
into her essential expenditure showing on the statements also. This is so it could assure 
itself that she could make the repayments on the loan in a sustainable way. I also agree with 
the investigators findings about Ms Ws expenditure that is shown on the statements. I think 
if Everyday Loans had looked into this further, rather than rely on an average figure of 35% 
of Ms Ws declared income, it would have seen that she wouldnt have had enough 
disposable income to afford the monthly repayment for this loan.I conclude Everyday Loans ought to have realised it was unlikely that Ms W would be 
able to sustainably repay this amount over the term of the loan. And, in these 
circumstances, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair 
to lend to Ms W.
Loan 2
Ms W went back to Everyday Loans and asked for a second loan of £3000. Everyday Loans 
says it agrees with our investigators findings. Our investigator upheld Ms Ws complaint 
about Loan 2. They concluded Everyday Loans didnt make a fair lending decision. 
I agree with the investigators findings as well. Ms Ws unsecured lending had increased 
significantly since she was given Loan 1. Everyday Loans had also assessed that she had 
minimal disposable income after it had taken into consideration the repayment for loan 2.
There is a payment relating to a loan on the bank statement, and it does look more likely 
than not, that Ms W was acting as a guarantor on another loan. So, this means Ms W would 
most likely have had a credit commitment that was more than what Everyday Loans 
assessed she had in disposable income. I think on seeing this, and with what I have already 
found, on balance, this loan was not affordable for Ms W and I dont think she wouldve been 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
So, in conclusion, I dont think Everyday loans made a fair lending decision when it agreed to 
loan 1 and 2. I uphold Ms Ws complaint and I direct Everyday Loans to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms W to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she has had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided the loans, so it should look to remove the interest and fees from the 
principal amount. 
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-2 and treat all the payments Ms W 
has made as payments towards the capital for each of these loans.
If reworking Ms Ws loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in relation to loans 1-
2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as I have 
described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman