DRN-4097210
The complaint
Ms P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent bank statements in her sole 
name to her ex-husbands solicitor. 
What happened
In January 2022 solicitors acting for Ms Ps ex-husband sent RBS a court order and request 
for bank statements for an account that was previously held in joint names. But despite 
referring to a joint account, the court order contained a sort code and account number that 
related to an account Ms P held in her sole name. 
RBS sent Ms Ps sole named bank statements in line with the account number and sort code 
recorded on the court order. RBS didnt query why the court order referred to a joint account 
but gave details for an account in Ms Ps name only. 
In March 2022 Ms P complained to RBS and it made various offers of compensation. On 15 
March 2022 RBS sent Ms P and final response and paid her £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms P has told us she didnt feel the award was fair so referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed Ms Ps complaint. The investigator explained that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant decide whether there had been a technical data breach and that 
Ms P could refer her concerns to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to consider. 
The investigator thought the level of compensation offered by RBS was a fair way to resolve 
Ms Ps complaint. 
Ms P didnt agree and asked to appeal. Ms P said the court order didnt allow RBS to share 
her sole named account statements and that, by doing so, she had been caused a large 
amount of distress and inconvenience. 
I was recently passed Ms Ps complaint and reviewed what had happened. I contacted RBS 
and said I felt it shouldve done more before to verify the information requested before 
sending Ms Ps statements to the solicitors. I pointed out that whilst the request referred to a 
joint account, the sort code and account number included was for Ms Ps sole account. 
Given the discrepancy, I felt RBS shouldve done more before sending bank statements and 
explained I felt an increase in the settlement was fair. RBS agreed to increase the 
compensation to £750. 
Last month, I contacted Ms P and put the increased settlement to her. Ms P responded and 
requested copies of documents we hold on file but didnt confirm whether she was willing to 
accept. As I havent heard back from Ms P, Ive taken the step of issuing a decision that 
confirms her complaint has been upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the letter and attached court order RBS received from Ms Ps ex-husbands 
solicitors dated 10 January 2022. In the court order document dated 16 December 2021 
RBS is required to supply account statements for any account previously maintained in joint 
names. But the account number noted relates to an account Ms P has only held in her sole 
name. RBS went on to send Ms Ps bank statements to her ex-husbands solicitors. 
As Ive noted to both parties, I think RBS shouldve done more to clarify the request before 
sending Ms Ps statements. And Im satisfied that doing so wasnt reasonable in light of the 
request RBS received. Ms Ps explained that the circumstances of her divorce proceedings 
were made harder as a result of the statements RBS shared. Ms Ps also told us about how 
the situation impacted her mental health and family relationships. I agree with Ms P that the 
existing offer of £400 isnt a fair way to resolve her complaint. 
Ive explained to both parties that I think the compensation should be increased from £400 to 
£750. In my view, that figure more reasonably recognises the impact of the issues raised on 
Ms P and is a fairer way to resolve her complaint. For the reasons given above and in my 
emails to both parties, Im upholding Ms Ps complaint and awarding £750 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by RBS actions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay her £750 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman