DRN-1427804
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Health UK Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by declining 
his claim under a private health insurance policy. He wants the claim accepted and 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Mr H had a private health insurance policy with Aviva that covered his family taken out 
through a broker. His daughter was referred to an orthopaedic surgeon due to pain in her left 
knee in 2019; Mr H wanted private treatment for her. But Aviva declined to authorise the 
consultation due to the existence of a pre-existing medical condition of Osgood Schlatters 
disease in 2017 (knee pain affecting both knees for which physiotherapy had been received 
by Mr Hs daughter and the pain had stopped in 2018). It retrospectively excluded any claim 
affecting the knees of Mr Hs daughter (the left knee was excluded in April 2019 and both 
knees were excluded in June 2019).
Mr H complained to Aviva and said that the pre-existing medical condition was unrelated to 
the 2019 referral according to the consultant; the pain was due to a broken piece of patella 
floating behind the kneecap. Aviva explained that Mr H had previously had health insurance 
with another insurer which had been fully medically underwritten, and then switched to Aviva 
in 2017 through his broker. It said that its normal policy would be to apply the pre-existing 
medical condition exclusions from the previous policy through the switch process, as well as 
its own terms and conditions, but it never received any medical information about Mr Hs 
daughter, despite Mr H being asked to supply information about any member of the family 
who had received treatment in the last 12 months. Aviva said this meant it applied its non-
disclosure process instead and considered medical records to work out what cover wouldve 
been in place if the information had been disclosed from the start. This was why the knees of 
Mr Hs daughter had been excluded.
Mr H complained to us and said that he was unhappy about Avivas handling of the matter 
as it wasnt made clear that ultimately Aviva might exclude some claims after considering the 
medical evidence so they proceeded with the private medical treatment and operation.
The investigators view was that Aviva wasnt at fault. She said when the policy was taken 
out, Mr H was asked about whether anyone to be insured had had any consultations, tests 
or treatment in the last 12 months or do you currently have appointments planned with a GP, 
Specialist or a hospital in the future?; he had ticked yes but failed to give any information 
about his daughter, who had seen a GP and been diagnosed with Osgood Schlatters 
disease in the last 12 months. This meant the medical condition hadnt been disclosed to 
Aviva and given the chance to assess what cover it was willing to offer. The investigator said 
Aviva was entitled to decide this and it had shown that if it had known the full position when 
the policy had started, Mr Hs daughter wouldnt have been offered cover for her knees.
Mr H disagreed. He said that the reason his daughter needed treatment in 2019 had no 
connection at all to Osgood Schlatters disease and he didnt think insurers should be able to 
exclude parts of the body from cover.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
excluded the condition if it had been declared from the start, it is entitled to do that 
retrospectively.
In Mr Hs case, he was asked clearly when taking out the policy if anyone to be insured had 
consulted a doctor or been treated in the last 12 months, and to provide information if the 
answer was yes to enable Aviva to decide what cover to offer. Mr H didnt tell Aviva about 
his daughters diagnosis or treatment, despite it being in the last 12 months.
While I accept that the medical evidence is that the claim in 2019 was unrelated to Osgood 
Schlatters disease, that doesnt mean Aviva wasnt allowed to exclude all claims relating to 
Mr Hs daughters knees. It has provided evidence that if the information had been provided 
in 2017, it wouldve excluded her knees from the policy. I think Mr H didnt deliberately or 
recklessly fail to declare, but it was careless as it was made clear that he needed to provide 
the information. Insurers are able to refuse to cover particular risks when offering a policy as 
they're able to use their commercial judgment.
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Aviva to rely on it to retrospectively exclude Mr Hs daughters knees from cover 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I note that from the early stages, the contact notes (on which I place weight as they were 
written at the time) show Aviva did tell Mr H that it didnt think the left knee would be covered 
once it was told about the 2017 diagnosis of Osgood Schlatters disease and that if the 
private treatment was continued, it mightnt be covered. The operation appears to have been 
carried out some time after the left knee was excluded from cover. I dont think Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with the issue and it didnt tell Mr H the claim would 
be covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 4 
August 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman