DRN-3182689
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the sale of his standard pet policy sold to him by Bought By 
Many Ltd (BBM). 
What happened
Mr N acquired his dog in December 2020. And from the start his dog had eye issues 
followed by ear issues. The vet history shows that in January 2021 Mr N mentioned to the 
vet that he was snoring very loudly. His dogs breathing issues were mentioned again in the 
vet history in February and March 2021. 
On 16 February 2021 Mr N first called BBM. Initially he said he wanted a quote for a pre-
existing policy to provide cover for his dogs snoring, because a charity vet group thought he 
might have BOAS. The adviser explained that be covered under the pre-existing conditions 
policy there needs to be no treatment, advice or medication given for the previous three 
months. Plus, the cover is limited to only £500 benefit.  On that basis Mr N asked for a quote 
for BBMs standard policy. The adviser explains that that policy wouldnt cover any pre-
existing conditions unless there has no treatment, advice, or medication for 24 months. 
Mr N then phoned back on 9 March 2021 again saying he wanted the pre-existing policy but 
instead takes out the standard policy which doesnt cover any pre-existing conditions unless 
they have been clear of advice, medication, and treatment for 24 months. 
On 23 March 2021 to try and make a claim but as he hadnt been at the vet yet, the adviser 
told him to go to the vets to see what was needed and then BBM could look at the level of 
cover available.  Mr N calls back on 6 April 2021 wanting to make a claim to investigate his 
dogs possible BOAS issue. Mr N called again on 26 April wanting BBM to recommend a vet 
to him which it said it couldnt do. Mr N phoned back again on 29 April 2021 explaining that 
he was finding another vet as his dogs eyes need another operation and his dog is also 
being referred for BOAS investigations. 
Mr N called again on 30 April 2021 saying that his vet didnt think his dogs eye operation 
would be covered. Mr N explained that he thought he might have been mis-sold this policy. 
The BBM adviser explains that no pre-existing conditions are covered unless there has been 
no advice, treatment, and medication for 24 months.  Mr N called BBM again on 4 May 2021 
to ask if BBM would pay before the operation. BBM explains that it only assessed claims 
after the vet fees had been incurred or the treatment given. Mr N said his vet told him his 
claim for his dogs eyes wouldnt be covered because he had a previous operation in the last 
24 months. Mr N then said he was told it was 24 hours. And he should have had his dog 
insured on the pre-existing policy. So, Mr N complained that he has been mis sold this policy 
and he should be moved to the pre-existing policy. 
BBM didnt think it had mis sold Mr N his policy, so Mr N brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator also didnt think BBM had mis sold this policy. Mr N didnt agree so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I also understand Mr N has had two other complaints with this service, one about the policy 
cancellation which was cancelled because Mr Ns bank account was closed so no premium 
payments were being paid and the other about his claim for BOAS being declined both of 
which werent upheld. Just so Mr N understands, Im not dealing with those two complaints 
as they have been dealt with by another ombudsman, Im merely dealing with the sale of this 
policy by BBM to Mr N in March 2021. 
I think its worthwhile if I consider the two different policies in this complaint. BBM can supply 
whats called a pre-existing conditions policy but the cover is very limited. First it only 
provides a benefit of £500 plus an excess of £99 is payable but crucially the condition 
claimed must have not had any vet advice, any medication at all or any other treatment for 3 
months. If there was no claim at all in the first year the cover increases to £1,000 and if there 
is no claim in the second year, then its treated a new condition and full cover is available. If 
there is any claim under this pre-existing condition policy in the first two years as I 
understand it, there is also a co-payment required to be paid by the policyholder, of 20% of 
the costs of the treatment too. But crucially no claim is paid if there has been any advice, 
treatment, or medication within the previous three-month period.
The standard policy provides a higher level of cover of £7,000 per year but it wont cover any 
condition for which the pet has advice, treatment, or medication for in the previous 24 
months.
 
Given Mr Ns dogs vet history from the time he acquired his dog in December 2020 and the 
time he bought his standard policy in March 2021, as I have detailed above, there was at 
least advice given in the vet history throughout all of this time, concerning varying conditions 
of eyes, ears and this loud snoring. Its irrelevant if any condition isnt diagnosed, what is 
relevant is whether there are any clinical signs at the time of a condition then later 
diagnosed.
I can see clearly throughout all the numerous call recordings that Mr N cared for his dog and 
wanted to be able to afford to treat him. However its also clear to me that Mr N never 
appreciated that no pet insurance policy, and the ones offered by BBM are no different, 
offers cover for any conditions which are showing clinical signs and are being actively 
treated or advice received from any vet, even by over the counter eye drops like in Mr Ns 
case, or the fact he sent a video of his dog snoring loudly to a vet for advice, when they are 
bought. All pet policies will seek to exclude cover for those conditions when the clinical signs 
of those conditions are there and noted down in the vet history beforehand, which I 
understand has happened here with Mr Ns claim. Mr N in his response to the investigators 
view wrote on email on 9 November 2021 that there was nothing to say that BOAS was 
there (meaning in the vet history) as the x-ray didnt happen until July. On that basis Mr N 
doesnt think it was pre-existing. But Im afraid thats not the case, the vet history shows Mr 
N was concerned about his dogs breathing and snoring noises since he got him. They can 
be clinical signs of BOAS which was sadly confirmed as a diagnosis in July. Insurers are 
fully entitled to rely on what is written on the vet history even if there is no clear diagnosis at 
the time. Those conditions dont necessarily need a firm diagnosis. Mr N needs to be aware 
that just the history of the clinical signs in the vet history can entitle an insurer to deem the 
later diagnosed condition as pre-existing. From his first phone call with BBM Mr N was 
discussing his dogs symptoms concerning his eyes, ears and this snoring and noisy breathing and explaining what varying vets has said about all of this too, which shows he 
was getting advice about them too.
 
All pet policies are also sold on an unadvised basis. This means that the seller like BBM 
cant offer advice, they can merely explain the different types of policy that are available. In 
order for me to decide Mr Ns policy was mis sold, I need to see that BBM didnt explain the 
details of the policies available properly. 
The most important call is the first one on 16 February 2021. Mr N clearly said initially that 
he wanted a pre-existing condition policy. When Mr N said he only had his dog since 
December and since then his dog had treatment for eyes and also an ear infection, the BBM 
adviser quite rightly told Mr N he  would talk through the policies BBM had on offer. Mr N 
then also mentioned his dogs breathing which he was obviously very concerned about too. 
The adviser clearly explained that in order for Mr N to have the pre-existing policy, his dog 
must have no advice, treatment, or medication for three months. And because it was very 
clear Mr Ns dog had had advice, treatment and medication since December, the pre-
existing policy wouldnt be available.
 
So, the adviser then went through the other policies which clearly would not cover any pre-
existing condition unless there has been no treatment, advice or medication for the condition 
being claimed for 24 months. Mr N then leaves it and says he really wants his dog to be 
covered by the pre-existing one, so hell wait three months and apply then.
   
However, Mr N didnt wait three months as he called back on 9 March 2021. He confirms 
again he wanted the pre-existing condition policy but when the adviser explains it will on give 
£500 of cover and Mr N would have to pay £99 excess and 20% of the cost of the treatment, 
Mr N asks again about the other policies. The adviser clearly asked him to confirm if he 
wanted cover for pre-existing conditions and Mr N said no as he could get it (meaning 
another operation on his dogs eye) done under a charity vet clinic. The adviser explained 
the standard policy was £7,000 of cover per year with an excess of £99 in the first year for a 
premium of £521.37. Mr N said that was what he wanted. The adviser again made it very 
clear that anything Mr Ns dog has had treatment, advice, or medication for in the last 24 
months wont be covered. Mr N said he told them (meaning the adviser on the call of 16 
February) what conditions his dog had. This adviser said but we havent discussed them 
today and went on to explain that Mr N didnt have to disclose anything because quite simply 
no condition for which his dog had advice, treatment or medication for in the previous 24 
months wouldnt be covered under this policy anyway. Mr N confirmed its just his eyes and 
thats now taken care of. So, Mr N buys the policy.
I consider its very clear indeed that Mr N was told about the fact there was no cover for 
anything his dog had received advice, medication, or treatment in the last 24 months. I 
appreciate that Mr N now remembers that as 24 hours but thats not what the call recordings 
say. Call recordings are a clear record of what the parties to the call said, regardless of what 
either party might later misremember. So consequently, I cannot ignore the evidence in 
these calls. There is simply no evidence at all that either adviser told Mr N the period of time 
was 24 hours and not 24 months. This is because in the call the adviser and Mr N said the 
following before Mr N opted to buy the standard policy, as in the adviser confirms You 
understand that by choosing not to buy our pre-existing policy any pre-existing conditions 
cannot be covered. This means anything your pets had any treatment, medication or advice 
for in the last 2 years would be excluded under this policy if it reoccurs. Do you agree? Mr N 
confirms yeah, thats fine.
Its only on the call recording for 20 May 2021 that Mr N told BBM that he then wanted to 
move to the pre-existing policy. So, there isnt any evidence to show me this policy was mis 
sold by BBM to Mr N on 9 March 2021.My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman