DRN-2929421
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed about 58,648 miles. 
The MOT completed in November 2018 noted a minor fault and explained that the offside 
front outer drive shaft joint constant velocity boot (CV boot) was severely deteriorated. 
There was no mention of any CV boot problems in the January 2020 MOT that was 
completed before Mr H took receipt of the car. I think it is therefore reasonable to assume 
the CV boot had either been replaced or the deterioration not noted during that inspection.
The MOT completed in January 2021 noted that the same CV boot had now split. The issue 
was now recorded as a major fault and Mr H had to have it repaired at his own expense.
If the CV boot had been replaced prior to Mr H taking receipt of the car I think that CV boot 
hasnt proven to be suitably durable; I think a reasonable person would expect it to last 
longer than it did. The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether goods are of 
satisfactory quality we should consider whether theyve been durable and as I dont think 
thats the case here I think MotoNovo will need to do something about it.
And, if Im wrong about the CV boot being replaced, that suggests the car was provided to 
Mr H with a known fault and I think its fair to hold MotoNovo responsible for the rectification 
of that fault.
MotoNovo have explained that an independent inspection of the car was completed in 
January 2021 and it assumes the inspector would have noticed if there was damage to the 
CV boot. I cant see the inspector was asked to look at that issue as he was reviewing 
another matter. Im therefore not persuaded theres evidence the boot was in satisfactory 
condition at that point.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should refund the cost of the repair on provision of receipts from Mr H. They 
should add 8% interest to that refund as Mr H has been deprived of that money.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund the cost of the repair that Mr H paid for, on provision of receipts from Mr H. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman