DRN-3198403
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P took out a single trip insurance travel insurance policy to cover him for a trip between 
January and June 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared 
Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel and on 23 March 2020 
they advised all British citizens abroad to return home. 
Mr P was due to travel from a country Ill call A to a country Ill call N on 3 April 2020 before 
returning home via another country in June 2020. Both flights were cancelled as a result of 
the impact of Covid-19 on international travel. Mr P booked a flight from A to the UK on 4 
April 2020. He was able to claim a refund for some of his unused costs but wants URV to 
pay the additional costs he incurred to get home. URV said this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr P made a complaint but URV maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ps complaint. He said that, 
based on the policy terms and conditions, Mr P wouldnt have been covered if he cut his trip 
short but also not covered if he stayed abroad. He didnt think this had been made 
sufficiently clear in the policy documents, so he upheld the complaint. 
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the 
exclusions were clearly and transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. And, 
they said it was up to Mr P to ensure he had the right level of cover for his needs. So, I need 
to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On
page one it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The policy terms and conditions say, on page 17:
Section B1 - Curtailment charges 
(if you have to come home early)
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Schedule of benefits for your 
proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and 
other pre-paid charges (including excursions up to £250) which you have paid or 
are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable 
additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed (you having to return home 
early) before completion as a result of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result 
of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
being quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service 
attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their 
authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that 
the curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4.The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
In the general exclusions section of the policy, on page 12, it says there is no cover for:
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
FCO or regulatory authority in a country travelling has advised against all, or all but 
essential travel.
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation/curtailment section of the policy because: 
Mr P curtailed his trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
the destination he was already visiting. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain The exclusions Ive outlined above mean that if Mr P had remained abroad hed have 
not followed FCDO advice. So, he wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms 
and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently 
clear to Mr P   
Mr P would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr P and 
URV. I think its unlikely that Mr P would have purchased the policy if he had realised 
that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after hed 
bought the policy. I think its more likely that hed have taken out a policy which would 
have covered him for changes in FCDO advice, which were widely available at the 
time he took out this policy. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. 
URV should therefore reassess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman