DRN-3022853
The complaint
Mr Gs complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) wont settle his 
claim for as much as he thinks its worth.
What happened
In autumn 2019, a pipe burst in Mr Gs bathroom, letting water escape into the bathroom and 
the kitchen below.  Mr G contacted Admiral to make a claim under his home insurance 
policy.  He reported the damage was extensive in both rooms.
Mr G wanted to use his own tradesmen to deal with repairs.  So Admiral asked him to get 
quotes and forward them so Admiral could consider them.
Mr G obtained quotes and forwarded them to Admiral via the loss adjuster.  Admiral thought 
they were high  they were around £22,000  and so sent their own surveyor out to scope 
the work.  The surveyor identified only a small amount of damage was attributable to the 
leak.  He said the remainder the work Mr Gs tradesman had quoted for was to replace items 
that had deteriorated over time due to wear and tear  so werent covered under the policy.  
Admiral calculated the cost of the works attributable to the escape of water to be £1,800, 
The policy excess is £600.  So they said theyd pay Mr G £1,200 to settle his claim.
Mr G refused the settlement and complained to Admiral about how the loss adjuster had 
dealt with him and about the amount offered to settle the claim.  Admiral investigated and 
upheld Mr Gs complaint that the loss adjuster had delayed in reviewing the quotes theyd 
been sent.  They paid Mr G £50 compensation for that.  And they paid him a further £25 
compensation for delay in investigating his complaint.
But Admiral didnt uphold Mr Gs other concerns about the loss adjuster.  And they said that 
the cost of all work covered by the policy came within the settlement figure.  And any extra 
works were betterment and not caused by the escape of water.
Mr G didnt accept the outcome of Admirals investigation and brought his complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded that Admiral didnt have to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint. 
He explained that home insurance policies aim to put the policyholder back in the position 
they were in before damage occurred.  He was satisfied that Admiral had offered to do this, 
as theyd offered a settlement to cover repairing the damage caused by the escape of water.  
And hed considered their surveyors report which explained why they didnt think everything 
on Mr Gs quotes was damage.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Insurers have to deal with claims fairly and in line with the policy terms.  And, as our 
investigator explained, they aim to put the policyholder back into the position they were in 
before the claim arose.  That means theyll cover the cost of repairing or replacing whats 
been damaged.  But they wont pay for other items which only improve a property.
The key issue here is the extent of the damage caused by the escape of water.  Mr G says 
extensive repairs are needed to the kitchen, bathroom and adjoining areas.  Admiral say 
only a small amount of remedial work is needed and that the other items included in Mr Gs 
quotes are the result of wear and tear over the years.
Im not an expert. That means I cant decide what repairs are needed as a result of the 
escape of water. So Ive thought about whether Admirals decision about what was water 
damage was reasonable - and was supported by the available evidence.  
Ive seen that Admiral were prompted to review in more detail what was damaged by the 
escape of water by the high quotes Mr G supplied.  I think that was reasonable, given the 
potential value of the claim.
Admiral sent a surveyor to look at what was being claimed for and advise if the work was the 
result of the escape of water, or something else.  Ive seen what the surveyor sent them.  It 
details the various items included in Mr Gs quote and the surveyors view on why those 
items need repairing or replacing.  Im satisfied from what Ive read that Admiral received a 
detailed report on which to base their decision  and that it was reasonable for them to rely 
on that.
And Im satisfied that Admiral reviewed their position when they received new information.  
Mr G sent our investigator several videos, showing his concerns.  Our investigator passed 
these onto Admiral and asked them for comments.  And, when I was passed the complaint, I 
asked Admiral to clarify one point I didnt think theyd dealt with.  Admiral confirmed their 
position that the additional works were caused by other factors, not the escape of water.  So 
Im satisfied theyve considered whether the further information should change the amount of 
the settlement.
I understand why Mr Gs unhappy with the amount of the settlement Admiral have offered 
because he feels more remedial work is necessary.  Im sorry about that.  But Im satisfied 
that Admiral have come to a reasonable conclusion about what damage was caused by the 
escape of water.  And the settlement doesnt have to cover any more than that.  
Ive seen costings for that work.  And I can see that Admiral have, in fact, offered more than 
was costed to allow for extra painting and rubbish costs.  So I think what theyve offered is 
reasonable.
I understand Mr G hasnt so far accepted the settlement.  If he now wants to accept it, I 
expect Admiral to pay what theyve offered him.  But I dont think they need to do any more 
to resolve Mr Gs complaint.   
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman