DRN-2542366
The complaint
Miss J feels that Shawbrook Bank Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to some 
cosmetic goods and services she purchased from a salon.
What happened
In August 2018 Miss J entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and services. These 
goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through credit provided by 
Shawbrook and what Miss J says was a deposit paid to the salon. This credit agreement 
was a fixed sum loan agreement for a total repayable amount of £4320 to be repaid over 
thirty-six monthly repayments. She signed the agreement electronically through the salon. 
Miss J says that she received six out of twenty-four treatments before the salon 
unexpectedly closed. As she hasnt received the goods and services she agreed to buy, she 
wants to get out of the loan agreement. 
So she spoke to Shawbrook who acknowledged there had been a breach of contract and 
offered her replacement treatments with another salon. Miss J doesnt think she should pay 
any more, so she complained to this service.
Our investigator explained his redress methodology which meant Miss J should still pay a 
significant reduced amount bearing in mind the goods and services she had received before 
the salon closed. Shawbrook accepted this methodology. Miss J then evidenced the 
payments to the salon as Ive described already (having not done so before).
So our investigator reworked the calculations based on the new evidence but using the 
same methodology. This meant Miss J owed Shawbrook less than in the investigators initial 
assessment. Shawbrook contested this. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss J raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Miss J has a claim for material misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against the 
credit provider (Shawbrook here) provided certain conditions are met. This is a key issue 
and one Shawbrook appears to not fully appreciate in this case. I shall return to this later in 
this decision.
However it must be remembered that although this legislation places obligations on 
Shawbrook, it still is a different entity to the salon. This is not a decision about what the salon 
did or didnt do, as I cannot decide on that as the salon isnt in existence anymore (or within 
my remit). I hope this key issue is clear.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-between debtor, creditor and 
supplier; often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. 
Bearing in mind Shawbrook has acknowledged that the course of treatments hasnt been 
completed and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need to consider how this matter 
should be resolved fairly between the parties.
Essentially there is very little documentation from the time available, save for the loan 
agreement itself, what appears to be a salon appointment card and Miss Js bank 
statements showing payments to the salon. However this service has received a number of 
complaints involving this salon (and similar situations) and has developed a knowledge 
about such matters from the accumulation of evidence from these different cases.
Miss J has described how she had six of the twenty-four treatments. And this service knows 
when the salon ceased trading. And considering the dates written on what appears to be 
appointment card, the date of the loan agreement and what Miss J has said on the matter I 
am persuaded that it is likely she only received what she says she had. So I think 
Shawbrooks approach of accepting that there has been a breach of contract is fair.
Shawbrook initially considered trying to fulfil the contract through another provider. But the 
cosmetic industry is vast and complex with a huge number of products and treatments 
available. Im not persuaded that what Miss J would have received would have been like for 
like. Furthermore if this is the approach to be taken by the credit provider it also has to do so 
within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to Miss J. And all things 
considered Im not persuaded that such an approach would be fair and reasonable in this 
particular case.
It is important that this service not only tries to fulfil its duty to be fast, fair and impartial but 
also that it applies a consistent approach. In this instance the Investigator has chosen to see 
the contract as being for thirty-four items (which includes treatments, diagnostics and kits) 
and to treat them equally. The investigator came to this approach based on what Miss J has 
told us and what we know of the salons working practices. I consider this methodology to be 
fair and Shawbrook accepted this approach when the Investigator issued their initial 
assessment. And broadly I think it fair that Miss J pays for the goods and services she did 
receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive.
Miss J has latterly pointed to two payments of £240 she made to the salon and has 
described them as the deposit. Shawbrook doesnt think these should be included as it 
doesnt think they were part of the contract and notes the dates they were paid. It suggests 
that they were for goods and services outside of the contract. 
Unhelpfully we dont have much evidence from the salon on this case. However this service 
has seen a number of invoices from the salon from around this time in other cases. And as I 
said, this service has built up a knowledge of the salon and how it worked. We have seen 
other examples of deposits being paid and it is fair to say that this happens in many cases 
we have seen. I think it fair to say the salon had variable practices and seemed to be 
accepting of different customers preferences on payments including paying deposits in 
instalments and at different times in relation to the agreement and indeed receiving the 
treatments. So what Miss J says is consistent and within what this service knows about this salons working practices. Miss J has also provided banking evidence of these transactions 
with the salon. 
Shawbrook has not provided any evidence from the salon about this matter and only points 
to the loan agreement. This is understandable, but Miss J was there, has told us what 
happened and has evidenced the payments. So Im satisfied that I can fairly treat these 
payments as being part of the overall contract and thus include them in my calculations.
Shawbrook also argue that because the loan agreement says there was no deposit listed on 
the loan agreement that This means that the customer has agreed to the terms of finance, 
which explicitly states there is no deposit involved. Therefore we cannot legally be held liable 
for this. I do not agree. As stated the general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss J has a 
claim for material misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or 
services, she can also bring that claim against the credit provider (Shawbrook here) 
regarding the whole of that contract provided certain conditions are met. Ive explained these 
conditions are met and I consider it fair and reasonable to consider the contract to include 
the deposit paid to the salon directly as Miss J has evidenced. I am not persuaded by 
Shawbrooks comments here. Just because the credit agreement states there is no deposit 
factored into the credit agreement doesnt mean that Miss J didnt pay a deposit toward the 
overall contract agreed with the salon. I think Miss Js comments and evidence on this 
matter are more persuasive than what is said on the credit agreement in this regard and 
what Shawbrook say on the matter.
Accordingly under section 75 I can hold Shawbrook liable for the contract as I have found it 
to be. And I think it fair and reasonable in these circumstances to do so. So I will include the 
deposit Miss J paid in my calculations.
  
Putting things right
The total price was £4,800 (including the deposit Miss J paid). This divided by the thirty-four 
equal parts of the contract means the value of each element is £141.17. Miss J has 
confirmed what she did and didnt receive and Ive no persuasive reason to doubt her 
comments on this. I therefore feel Miss J should receive a price reduction of £3670.42 (26 x 
£141.17). The total price was £4,800 and this therefore means the total amount Miss J is 
liable for on this agreement is £1,129.58. From this amount should be removed the £480 
deposit paid to the salon and any repayments already made to Shawbrook under the 
agreement. This will leave the outstanding amount she has to pay. Any adverse reporting on 
Miss Js credit file should also be removed.
Summary
In short, Ive considered everything that Miss J has said. I appreciate how Miss J feels about 
the whole situation. I think Shawbrooks decision to acknowledge the breach of contract is 
fair. However I think Miss J should pay for the elements of the contract she did receive and 
not pay for those she didnt receive. So Shawbrook must implement the price reduction as 
Ive described. Shawbrook can then ask Miss J to repay what is outstanding on the contract 
as I have explained above. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about 
Shawbrook Bank Limited.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman