DRN-2871051
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) defaulted his credit card and overdraft.
What happened
Mr S had an overdraft limit of £2,000. In June 2019, Lloyds demanded repayment of it with 
the balance £2,136.62 debit. He had a credit card with a limit of £3,150. In August 2019, 
Lloyds sent a Notice of Default with the balance at £3,187.63 debit and made demand for 
repayment in September 2019. Defaults were registered on both accounts.
Mr S complains that he didnt get any letters that Lloyds sent him  to his address in 
Netherlands. He had to travel to another country to look after his mother, who sadly died in 
2019. He only became aware of what had happened when he returned to the UK in April 
2020. He hadnt been contacted by Lloyds by phone or email  this was unfair. He called 
Lloyds in May 2020 and agreed payments of £100 per month to his overdraft  and says he 
was promised a letter to confirm this, but nothing arrived, so he didnt pay anything. He 
wanted the fees and interest refunded and the defaults removed. Also, part of the debt 
should be written off. 
In March 2020, Lloyds said letters had been sent to Mr Ss address in the Netherlands, but 
no payments were received, and no contact was received. The overdraft fees were correctly 
applied. The defaults on both Mr S credit card and overdraft would remain. In January 2021, 
Lloyds said the payment plan was agreed over the phone and no letter was to be sent. No 
payments had been received from Mr S in respect of the plan, and theyd written to him 
again. Lloyds said theyd be happy to discuss a partial settlement of Mr S debt, but the 
defaults wouldnt be removed, and would remain on his credit file for six years.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds had acted reasonably. Mr S 
credit card had fallen into arrears in April 2019, when direct debits had been returned 
unpaid. Regarding the overdraft, she agreed that it wouldve been better if Lloyds had written 
to Mr S  but he hadnt made any payments to the account either. On both the credit card 
and overdraft, Lloyds had sent Mr S many letters to his Netherlands address. It was 
reasonable to assume that Mr S was aware of his debts when he left to look after his mother.
Mr S asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr S complaint is that he wasnt aware of the position on his credit card or 
overdraft  Lloyds shouldve contacted him by phone or email to let him know the position, 
rather than relying on letters to his Netherlands address. He returned to the UK in April 2020 
 when he found out what had happened on his accounts. And  he didnt make any 
payments to his overdraft because he hadnt received the letter from Lloyds confirming their 
agreement to accept payments of £100 per month in May 2020.
I can see from Mr Ss statements that the last payment to his overdraft was in February 
2019. The last payment to his credit card was in April 2019. After then, direct debits to it 
were returned unpaid. I can also see that Lloyds sent him several letters. On his credit card, 
Lloyds wrote four letters saying - Mr S was in arrears with no payments received - in June 
2019, July 2019, September 2019 and October 2019. The Notice of Default was sent in 
August 2019  with the balance at £3187.63. On Mr S overdraft, arrears letters were sent in 
May 2019 and July 2019  in addition to the letter of demand in June 2019. All the letters 
asked that Mr S get in touch. Lloyds obligation was to write to Mr S at his address which 
they had on file  which I can see that they did. Mr S says that he wouldve expected that 
Lloyds did more than that  and contacted him by phone and/or email, but they didnt. I can 
see that wouldve been ideal, but I have to say that Lloyds complied with the Consumer 
Credit Act requirements  which was to send letters to Mr S address held in their records  
which they did.
I can see that Mr S was using and paying into his accounts up to February 2019 (current 
account) and April 2019 (credit card)  when the last payments were made. After that time, 
the accounts became dormant, other than interest and fees being applied. So  I must 
reasonably assume that Mr S was aware of his debts and obligations. And it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect him to continue to make payments to them, even if he wasnt receiving 
his post. Payments were being made by direct debit to his credit card  but these stopped. I 
havent seen why that was, other than there were several direct debit payments returned 
unpaid before they stopped altogether. He could also have checked his accounts using 
phone banking or internet banking  Ive seen nothing to see that he did. And  he couldve 
advised Lloyds of his situation and asked them to send them his letters to another address, 
or at least ask them how to access his accounts- but he didnt.  
Mr S called Lloyds in May 2020 and agreed to pay £100 per month towards his overdraft 
debt. He says Lloyds told him theyd write to him to confirm the arrangement but didnt. 
Unfortunately, the call cannot be located. Lloyds say they didnt write in those 
circumstances. Mr S says he didnt make any payments because he didnt get a letter. But  
I think its reasonable to expect Mr S to have made, at least some payments that hed 
agreed to  but he didnt.
In summary, in an ideal world  I can appreciate that Lloyds might have tried to contact Mr S 
in other ways, as Mr S has said. But the fact is that Lloyds complied with the regulations 
here. And  equally, I think Mr S should have known that he had borrowing with Lloyds that 
he was responsible for, and its reasonable to have expected that he shouldve made efforts 
to deal with his debts.
So  on reviewing Mr Ss complaint  I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably. I can see 
that Mr S feels strongly and will be disappointed by my decision. But - I wont be asking that 
Lloyds do anymore here. 
Lloyds have told us that they are still willing to discuss a possible partial settlement of Mr S 
debts  but this would mean that any agreement will be noted on his credit file. If Mr S 
wishes to pursue this option, he should call Lloyds to see if theres an agreement that can be 
reached.
(continued)My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman