DRN-3443424
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her chargeback claim for 
goods she didnt receive. 
What happened
In April 2020, Ms C bought something online. As she hadnt received it, she asked 
Barclays to raise a chargeback claim, which it did. The merchant defended the claim 
saying it had been delivered. 
On 2 June 2020, Barclays sent a letter to Ms C to tell her about the merchants 
response and to give her 10 days to submit further information. Ms C called Barclays 
in response  she says she was told that the deadlines to submit further information 
had been extended due to Covid-19. 
Barclays later received further information from Ms C, but it said it was too late to 
pursue the claim. Unhappy, Ms C raised a complaint. Barclays said the correct 
outcome for the dispute was reached but it apologised for the service it provided, so 
it paid Ms C £175 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme  in this case, decided by VISA according to its 
scheme rules. So its not my role or Barclays role to decide the outcome of the 
chargeback claim, or to get involved with the underlying dispute between Ms C and 
the merchant. 
Instead, I must decide whether Barclays acted reasonably in how it handled Ms Cs 
claim.   
Ms C says she was told shed more time to submit further information after the 
merchant defended the claim, and Barclays accepted that. But Ive got to reach my 
own decision about this, given that its material to a fair outcome. 
I cant be certain about what Ms C was told. But civil disputes like this one are only 
ever decided on the balance of probabilities. In other words, whats more likely than 
not to have happened. 
Here, Ive listened to the first part of the relevant call, but theres no recording 
available for the conversation that happened when she was passed through to 
another team. Its of course possible that Ms C was incorrectly told that deadlines 
had been extended due to Covid-19. But Ive not seen other evidence that supports 
this, and theres limited detail about what she was told  for example, when the 
deadline was extended to. In saying that, Ive noted that Barclays received Ms Cs 
further information a relatively long time after the deadline. 
So, in all, theres not enough to persuade me that its more likely than not that Ms C 
was told that deadlines had been extended. It follows that I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably when it didnt pursue the chargeback claim to the next stage when it 
didnt receive anything further. 
I know Ms C will be disappointed by my findings, as shes out of pocket. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman