DRN-3165138
The complaint
Through his Claims Management Company (CMC), Mr T has complained that Phoenix Life 
Limited (Phoenix Life) failed to carry out adequate due diligence before transferring his 
pension to a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) operated by Rowanmoor Group plc. 
The CMC has said Phoenix Life failed to follow the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s 
Principles and Rules and should have contacted Mr T directly to find out more about his 
reasons to transfer. It also said it didnt send Mr T the information leaflet the Pensions 
Regulator (TPR) expected to be provided before such transfers.
What happened
The CMC says in early 2016 Mr T was cold called and was persuaded to allow a 
representative from Return on Capital UK Limited (ROC), and an unregulated firm, offering 
him a free review of his pensions. The CMC has said he was visited at his home and was 
recommended to transfer his pensions into a SSAS and invest via a loan note into the 
Dolphin Trust (which invested in German properties). Mr T has said he was told he would get 
better returns if he transferred away from Phoenix Life. 
At the time Mr T held two personal pension plans with Phoenix Life. He was 54 years of age 
and earned a modest salary. 
ROC liaised with Phoenix Life and the values of Mr Ts pensions were provided to ROC on 9 
February 2016.
On 5 February 2016 a new company was incorporated with Mr T as sole director and a 
registered address in Birmingham which matched ROCs address. Shortly after this time 
I assume the SSAS was established with Rowanmoor, using this company as the 
sponsoring employer.
Rowanmoor contacted Phoenix Life to request the transfer of the pensions and this was 
completed on 16 May 2016. Mr T also accessed his tax-free entitlement at the time of 
around £20,000.
The CMC has said Phoenix Life only corresponded only with ROC and Rowanmoor apart 
from when it provided the initial values of his pension directly to Mr T.  Its also said Mr T 
didnt receive any warnings from Phoenix Life nor was he provided with the scorpion leaflet 
required by TPR.
The CMC complained to Phoenix Life on Mr Ts behalf saying that Phoenix life failed to 
identify the warnings signs involved in this transfer  namely:
the involvement of an unregulated introducer and adviser; 
the fact Mr T had been cold called; 
the lack of regulated advice; 
the fact the SSAS had only recently been registered with HMRC; and 
the fact the scheme was said to be an occupational pension scheme (OPS) so 
Phoenix Life should have obtained information about the employer from the receiving 
scheme and made appropriate checks about the status of the employer and if Mr T 
was employed by that employer.
In response to the complaint Phoenix Life said that as the request from Rowanmoor came 
through the Origo Options online transfer system, it had reason to think Rowanmoor had 
been subjected to due diligence and comprehensive screening checks by Origo. It added 
that Mr T had a statutory right to transfer to his new SSAS. And it had no obligation to check 
that Mr T had taken regulated financial advice.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He felt 
that while Phoenix Life had sent the scorpion leaflet to ROC it should have in fact sent the 
leaflet directly to Mr T. He also felt that despite the transfer coming via Origo he there were a 
number of warning signs obvious in the initial due diligence stage as set out by TPR for 
Phoenix Life to have looked further into this transfer. And he reasoned that had Phoenix Life 
done that its likely Mr T would have decided against the transfer.
Phoenix Life didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that the transfer 
coming through Origo was enough of a check and that it was for the adviser to warn Mr T of 
the potential risks of the transfer.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What rules or guidance was Phoenix Life expected to follow at the time of the transfer?
As Mr Ts policy was a personal pension, Phoenix Life was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in its operation. TPR was a different regulator covering 
occupational schemes and published comprehensive guidance (the Scorpion campaign) in 
February 2013 - including an Action Pack for ceding schemes to carry out due diligence on 
pension transfers. Initially this aimed to prevent transfers being made to pension liberation 
schemes, but it widened in July 2014 more broadly to the risk of investment scams.
Although the FCA itself has not produced any rules or guidance specific to this type of due 
diligence, the Action Pack was endorsed by its predecessor the FSA. Ive also kept in mind, 
as Mr Ts CMC has correctly said, that Phoenix Life was bound to follow the ever-present 
and broader Principles and Rules set out by the FCA, including the clients best interests 
rule at COBS 2.1.1R.
In March 2015 a broader piece of guidance initiated by the whole industry (both TPR and 
FCA regulated firms) was published: the PSIG Code of Practice (the Code). TPR then 
began referring to the Code in its Action Pack and it was welcomed by FCA. So in this 
decision I will consider both sets of guidance alongside each other, as it was reasonable for 
Phoenix Life to do this at the time.
Where they overlap (which they do significantly) I would not expect Phoenix Life to repeat 
the same steps again. But some indications of what was expected could only be obtained 
from the Action Pack, such as how to engage with a consumer when warning signs of 
liberation or a scam were detected. And the Code gave greater detail on the specifics to look 
out for in a SSAS transfer, and the circumstances in which a transfer could be blocked 
(although as Ill go on to explain, I havent needed to consider whether it would have been 
necessary for Phoenix Life to consider blocking the transfer in this case).When the scope of the campaign broadened in July 2014, TPR said in a press release that 
scams involved moving their retirement savings into unregulated high-risk or bogus 
investments that could result in them losing their entire pension potHome visits from 
introducers, offers of free pension reviews, claims about legal loopholes and unusual 
investments like overseas property, storage units or biofuels are all used to fool members 
into thinking theyre being offered a legitimate pension transfer.
Both the Action Pack and the Code said that the 2-page Scorpion leaflet should be sent 
directly to the policyholders home address whenever a transfer pack was requested, even 
by their representative. The March 2015 leaflet included a pictorial highlighting the risks of 
cold-calling, pension access before age 55, overseas transfer of funds, convincing marketing 
of returns over 8%pa, couriered paperwork and proposals for a single investment.
The Action Pack included a checklist of questions for businesses to follow if a policyholder 
was asking for a transfer. All the questions had equal prominence in the checklist, but 
I accept Phoenix Life had some discretion as to how much of it to complete before being 
satisfied that the scam risk was sufficiently low to proceed. To help with this, the Code 
contained an initial analysis stage of what were, in effect, filter questions.
One way of fast tracking a transfer in this initial stage was where it was to a member of an 
accepted club or group. The other way was where there had been pre-vetting of the 
administrator/scheme as not presenting a risk of pension scam activity. Phoenix Life is in 
effect saying this took place because it relied on Origos own due diligence.
What action should Phoenix Life have taken?
Phoenix Life has confirmed it sent the scorpion warning leaflet to ROC rather than directly to 
Mr T in response to the information request in February 2016. But as mentioned above TPR 
directed that the leaflet be sent directly to the member, Mr T in this case. There can be no 
reliance placed upon the adviser, which was more likely than not connected to the 
investments that had been recommended to Mr T, passing the leaflet on to Mr T or even 
engaging with him about the risks of transfer.
Furthermore, even though the transfer request was placed via Origo the leaflet should still 
have been sent directly to Mr T and in not doing so I dont think Phoenix Life treated Mr T in 
line with the FCA Principles as it was obliged to do.
In terms of the initial analysis stage of the PSIG Code, Im not persuaded that Origo Options 
would count as an accepted club or group. The example given was the public sector transfer 
club  but that is not a group of schemes, not providers. In my view with a transfer to a 
SSAS the risk was with what investments the individual scheme contained, not the provider. 
PSIGs likely view of this at this time can be seen from the following comment made in the 
June 2018 update to the Code:
the Industry Group continues to recommend that appropriate due diligence is carried out 
on transfers where companies use practitioner-only services for SSAS or are transacted 
using automated systems, such as Origo.
I think Phoenix Life should also have done its own due diligence into Rowanmoor rather than 
relying on Origo, although I accept that this is unlikely to have raised concerns about 
Rowanmoors legitimacy as a provider. Rowanmoor was arguably the best-known SSAS 
administrator in the industry at the time, but there is a similar problem here to that I set out 
above: I dont think that alone would have given Phoenix Life enough confidence that 
isolated schemes wouldnt be used (e.g. by third parties) as vehicles for scams.This was the very model TPR was highlighting in the March 2015 update to the Action Pack, 
which said Pension scam models are also changing. Many scammers are directing 
members to transfer into single member occupational schemes in an attempt to escape 
scrutiny. The example of a scam given in this Action Pack was of a consumer unwittingly 
being made a director of a company and trustee of his SSAS in order to invest in an 
overseas hotel development.
Ive taken into account that Rowanmoor acted as professional trustee of its scheme 
alongside Mr T as the member and lay-trustee. Nevertheless, the Code made clear that A 
strong first signal of [a scam] would be a letter of authority requesting a company not 
authorised by FCA to obtain the required pension information; e.g. a transfer value, etc.. 
This appears to have happened with the information request in February 2016, as ROC 
wasnt regulated. I havent seen Phoenix Life provided a printout of the Origo request. That 
request would have been pre-filled with ROCs name in a box for the advising firm. ROC did 
not appear on the Financial Conduct Authoritys register. So I consider Phoenix Life would 
already have been in possession of information that an unregulated advising firm was 
potentially involved in this transfer. So, this shouldnt have been ignored  especially at this 
point in time when the sophisticated nature of pension scams and fraud was widely known 
within the industry and all providers should have been alert to the signs.
So in the particular circumstances of this case, I couldnt fairly say that it would have been 
appropriate for Phoenix Life to look no further than the provider of the SSAS (Rowanmoor) 
being a long-established administrator and trustee. Its involvement with an unregulated 
introducer  which Phoenix Life should reasonably have been aware of  was also 
something that was a potential red flag under both the Code and the Scorpion guidance 
and not something Phoenix Life could reasonably have ignored.
If there were concerns at the initial analysis stage the PSIG Code recommended asking the 
policyholder a series of further questions. These addressed the risk of liberation as well as 
scams, so as there is no issue with Mr T receiving an incentive or accessing his pension 
before age 55, Ive focused on the remaining ones (which were broadly the same in the 
Scorpion checklist):
Did the consumer receive an unsolicited offer of a pension review or investment 
opportunity by cold call, email or text?
Were they told they could obtain a higher tax-free cash sum by transferring? (This 
question is only present in the Code)
Were they promised a specific or guaranteed rate of return, particularly over 8%pa? 
(The Checklist also highlights where the marketing material alludes to new or 
unusual investment techniques)
Did the investments marketing or discussions they had involve transferring funds 
overseas?
If these questions flagged up further concerns, the Code expected full due diligence to be 
carried out into Mr Ts transfer in any event - and that essentially meant completing broadly 
the same questions as the remainder of the Scorpion checklist. So Ill next address what 
would be the likely effect of Phoenix Life sending Mr T the Scorpion leaflet and asking at 
least these initial questions.
What would likely have happened if Phoenix Life had taken these steps?
Given a number of the initial warning signs of a scam as set out by TPR were present in 
Mr Ts case its likely the scorpion leaflet, if he had been provided with it by Phoenix Life, 
would have caused him to raise some questions about what he was about to do. He may 
have contacted the Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) or sought further advice elsewhere.  Whether this would have led Mr T to change his mind about the transfer based on the leaflet 
alone I cant be sure of. However, I do think reading the leaflet as well as the further 
questioning and due diligence that should have taken place would have caused Mr T to think 
twice about transferring his pensions.
As stated above, I think that Phoenix Life should have proceeded further down the 
questioning process in the PSIG Code, and this in combination with this leaflet, would have 
made enough difference. 
In response to the initial analysis questions Ive bulleted above, Mr T would have answered 
yes to most of them. And as the PSIG Code makes clear, even answering yes to one of 
the questions would have made it necessary for Phoenix Life to proceed to carry out further 
due diligence of which it suggested other questions as examples. These covered Mr Ts 
specific SSAS, the investments being made and whether he was getting regulated advice. 
That was consistent with TPRs expectation that where there were concerns the ceding 
scheme would need to progress through the questions in its checklist. And the questions in 
the checklist were broadly the same.
SSASs are often established in order to use existing pension funds as part of financial 
planning for a small business, so it wouldnt necessarily be unusual to see a SSAS being 
established using a transfer. But the name of the sponsoring employer was given in the 
SSASs name, and Phoenix Life should have noticed that this was also a brand-new 
company. Also, its location at the same registered address as ROC would have been a 
giveaway. In any event, both the Action Pack and the Code suggested enquiries into 
whether there was an earnings link with that employer (e.g. by requesting a payslip). I dont 
think the fact that Mr T was a director of that employer would have alleviated any concerns, 
because that was precisely the situation in the example of the scam given in the Action 
Pack.
The likely result of any further enquiries to Mr T in this regard would have been him 
confirming that his SSAS was not intended to provide pension benefits for a trading
company, but was solely in order to invest in overseas property on ROCs advice. Phoenix 
Life would have been able to establish and communicate its concerns to Mr T that ROC was 
unregulated. And I see no reason why Mr T wouldnt have discussed how he came about 
requesting the transfer with Phoenix Life had it approached him.
Whether or not Phoenix Life went much further into getting Mr T to send it specific 
information about the investments, Im satisfied it would now have known enough about what 
he was doing to realise that he was at significant risk of a scam  in fact the very same scam 
being talked about in the Action Pack. In that event TPR expected Phoenix Life to contact 
the member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme theyll be transferring 
to and send them the pension scams booklet.
In my view establishing Mr Ts understanding was an ongoing process which included the 
questions Phoenix Life would already have been asking him. Mr T could have changed his 
mind at any point as he learned more about the risks in what he was doing, and that was 
very much the aim of the regulators campaign. So I think theres a significant likelihood that 
by the point Phoenix Life had got to identifying that Mr Ts SSAS was not genuine and 
highlighting to him that he was getting unregulated advice, he would have been put off from 
continuing with the transfer.
However if that wasnt the immediate result, I think Phoenix Life should have sent him the 
booklet that TPR was suggesting. Or alternatively it would at least have needed to write to 
him in largely similar terms: to explain there was a risk of these types of arrangements being 
a scam, he could end up losing all of the money he invested, and he should take regulated financial advice or discuss what he was proposing with TPAS.
The booklet Im referring to here was largely the same as the shorter leaflet but with the 
added specific example of a SSAS scam which I think would really have brought the risks of 
what Mr T was doing home to him. So if Phoenix Life hadnt yet sent Mr T the shorter leaflet, 
I think the booklet would have better served this purpose by this stage. And Im persuaded 
on the balance of probabilities that by this point, if not earlier, Mr T would have changed his 
mind about making this transfer.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if Phoenix Life had treated him fairly.
The SSAS only seems to have been used in order for Mr T to make an investment that 
I dont think he would have made but for Phoenix Lifes actions. So I think that Mr T would 
have remained in his pension plan with Phoenix Life and wouldnt have transferred to the 
SSAS.
To compensate Mr T fairly, Phoenix Life should compare the actual value of the SSAS with 
the notional value if it had remained with Phoenix Life. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SSAS at the date of my final decision.
My aim is to return Mr T to the position he would have been in but for the actions of 
Phoenix Life. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That may be the case 
with some of the investments in the SSAS. Therefore, as part of calculating compensation:
Phoenix Life should agree an amount with SSAS as a commercial value for any 
illiquid investments, then pay the sum agreed to SSAS plus any costs and take 
ownership of those investments. The actual value used in the calculations should 
include anything Phoenix Life has paid to SSAS for illiquid investments. 
Alternatively, if Phoenix Life is unable to buy those investments from SSAS it should 
give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that Mr T 
should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the SSAS and move 
to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. So to provide 
certainty to all parties I think its fair that Phoenix Life also covers five years worth of 
future administration fees at the current tariff for the SSAS as part of the 
compensation, to allow a reasonable period of time for the SSAS to be closed.
Any outstanding administration charges yet to be applied to the SSAS should also be 
deducted from the actual value.
Incentives
An upward adjustment may be made to the actual value to allow for any indirect cash 
benefits (including loans) Mr T was paid as a result of the transfer and/or any payments 
the SSAS made to him before the age of 55 that it should not have been allowed to make (together, the incentives). Mr T is expected to evidence to Phoenix Life the total amount of 
any such incentives paid as soon as possible, otherwise he will not be able to benefit 
from any reimbursement or indemnity regarding unauthorised payment charges caused 
specifically by these incentives (covered below).
Where it applies, this adjustment for incentives involves calculating what larger, gross 
amount would ordinarily need to have been withdrawn from the pension over the course of 
Mr Ts retirement, to leave him a net amount equal to the total incentives. Here, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 20% assuming he is 
entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. As a result his net benefits would equal 
85% of the gross benefits. So the total incentives (if any) should therefore be grossed-up 
by dividing them by 0.85, then they should be added to the actual value at the date of my 
final decision.
Notional value
This is the value of Mr Ts investment had it remained with Phoenix Life at the date of my 
final decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Mr T received directly 
from the SSAS which would have been permitted under the tax rules (and are therefore not 
being treated as incentives above), should be treated as notional withdrawals from 
Phoenix Life on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease to take part in the calculation 
of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Mr T needed a pension arrangement that wasnt 
privately held, administered by an established insurance company and under FCA 
regulation. So I dont think its appropriate for further compensation to be paid into the SSAS.
Phoenix Life should reinstate Mr Ts pension plan as if its value on the date of my final 
decision was equal to the amount of any loss (and it performs thereafter in line with the 
funds Mr T was invested in). 
Phoenix Life shouldnt reinstate Mr Ts plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance  but my understanding is that it will be possible for it to reinstate a pension it 
formerly administered in order to rectify an administrative error that led to the transfer taking 
place. If Phoenix Life doesnt consider this is possible, it must explain why. 
If Phoenix Life is unable to reinstate Mr Ts pension and it is open to new business, it should 
set up a new plan for a value equal to the amount of any loss. The new plan should have 
features, costs and investment choices that are as close as possible to Mr Ts original 
pension. Its payment into the new plan should allow for the effect of charges and tax relief (if 
applicable). Phoenix Life shouldnt set up a new plan if it considers that its payment will be 
treated as a member contribution in excess of Mr Ts annual allowance, and  Phoenix Life is 
unable to process the amount in excess of the annual allowance. 
If its not possible to set up a new plan either, Phoenix Life should pay the amount of any 
loss direct to Mr T. But if this money had been in a pension, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore compensation paid in this way should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming he is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Mr T.
Reimbursement, indemnity and undertakings
In addition, Phoenix Life should reimburse Mr T for any unauthorised payment tax charges 
that have been levied against him personally by HMRC arising out of the funds transferred 
here. And it should also indemnify Mr T against any such charges arising in future as a 
result of unauthorised payments deemed to have been made before the date of my final 
decision.
The reimbursement or indemnity does not apply in respect of any incentives (as defined 
above) that Mr T does not promptly give details of (including their amounts) to Phoenix Life 
at the date of my final decision.
If illiquid investments are being left in the SSAS, Phoenix Life may ask Mr T to provide an 
undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive 
from those investments in future. Phoenix Life will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. If Phoenix Life asks Mr T to provide this undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Phoenix Life receiving Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
This interest is not required if Phoenix Life is reinstating Mr Ts plan for the amount of the 
loss  as the reinstated sum should, by definition, mirror the performance after the date of 
my final decision of the funds in which Mr T was invested.
If either Mr T or Phoenix Life dispute that the assumption for tax that Mr T will pay at 
retirement is reasonable, they must let us know as soon as possible so that the assumption 
can be clarified and Mr T receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to 
amend this assumption if a final decision is issued on the complaint.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
My final decision I that I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Phoenix Life Limited must pay Mr T the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman