DRN-3328039
The complaint
Mr R complained that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) took too long to return his 
money after its security checks blocked an online request he had made to withdraw funds. 
He was also unhappy about delays he experienced trying to sort things out on the phone 
with HSDL. To put things right he wants more compensation than HSDL has offered to pay.
What happened
On Friday 30 October 2020 Mr R made online withdrawals totalling £85,600 from two of his 
accounts held with HSDL. This triggered HSDLs security checks which flagged up the need 
to verify the transactions and on Monday 2 November 2020 (sometime shortly after 
10.29am) HSDL sent a text message and email to Mr R alerting him and asking him to make 
contact. 
It took Mr R a number of attempts to speak to someone at HSDL. Mr R wasnt able to get 
through on the phone to HSDL until late in the day on Monday 2 November 2020. HSDL 
attempted to verify the withdrawal with Mr R. HSDL couldnt match up the information Mr R 
supplied with account details it had recorded as some of the stored information was out of 
date. It was arranged that Mr R would call back in the morning when the office re-opened 
and someone could help sort this out. During the next phone call the following morning, it 
became clear that it was too late to authorise the withdrawals as HSDL had by then sent a 
BACS recall instruction. BACS is an electronic system used by banks to move money 
directly between accounts. This effectively overrode Mr Rs transfer instruction and it left 
Mr R having to wait for the withdrawals that he had initiated to be returned to his account.  
A series of phone calls took place between HSDL and Mr R as he needed the money to 
complete a property purchase on 12 November 2020.
The money was returned to Mr R on 23 November 2020. I understand this delay caused 
Mr R to miss out on the planned property purchase.
When Mr R complained to HSDL about what happened, it didnt agree that it had made any 
error in the way it had handled his money. It explained why security concerns had been 
flagged up on the account when verification checks were done and said the BACS recall 
process was outside its control. HSDL said that it applied the funds to his account at the 
earliest opportunity. So it didnt uphold this part of his complaint. But HSDL did apologise for 
its customer service during phone calls with Mr R on 2 November 2020 and 3 November 
2020 and by way of redress, offered him £200 compensation.  
Mr R didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so he brought his complaint 
to us. 
After carefully looking into what happened, our investigator didnt think that HSDL had 
treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the withdrawal issue. He said HSDL had 
acted within the account terms and conditions and correctly followed its processes. He said 
the timescale for the BACS recall wasnt something HSDL could control or guarantee. So our 
investigator didnt uphold this part of Mr Rs complaint. But he felt that £200 wasnt enough 
to reflect the poor service Mr R had experienced in his dealings with HSDL regarding this 
matter and recommended HSDL should pay £500 compensation. 
Mr R has said he accepts our investigators findings. HSDL has disagreed with the amount 
of compensation our investigator has recommended. It mainly said that Mr R was informed 
correctly during the phone call on 3 November 2020 that the transaction was now the subject 
of a BACS recall and he was given the generally accepted timescale expectation associated 
with that process of ten working days. HSDL said that the frequency of Mr Rs contacts after 
that shouldnt form the basis for assessing redress and it was satisfied that overall £200 was 
fair and reasonable to settle the complaint. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he first raised this matter, Mr Rs main complaint centred on his frustration that the 
way things worked at HSDL meant his withdrawal request effectively moved into the banking 
system before its security procedures flagged up any risk potential. His experience at 
another bank had been different  he said his payment on that occasion had been held until 
security checks were completed and the money was only then released. So Mr R was 
concerned that HSDL hadnt properly followed its own procedures and that its system wasnt 
fit for purpose.  
Our investigator explained in some detail in his view letter why he didnt feel he could fairly 
say that HSDL had done anything wrong in connection with the way it had processed Mr Rs 
withdrawal requests and the BACS recall. He explained that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service doesnt have authority to require HSDL to change its internal procedures. We could 
look at whether HSDL had correctly followed its own procedures and acted within the 
account terms and conditions on this occasion  and our investigator was satisfied that it 
had. 
Mr R hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not upholding this part of 
his complaint so I dont think I need to say more about this except that Ive reviewed the 
whole complaint and independently reached the same conclusion as our investigator. So, Im 
not upholding this part of Mr Rs complaint. But, like our investigator, I dont think that £200 
compensation is enough to fairly compensate Mr R for the way HSDL dealt with him on the 
phone. So I have concentrated on what I think its fair and reasonable to expect HSDL to do 
to put things right.
In its final response letter, HSDL said it was clear that its customer service fell short of the 
levels it expected. When Mr R called on 2 November 2020, he waited over one and a half 
hours to speak to an agent, by which time the department that needed to lift the restriction 
on his account had closed for the day. HSDL said insufficient notes were left on his account 
so the agent was also unaware that the restriction related to a BACS recall. It acknowledged 
that when Mr R called back the next morning (when he said he had been in the queue for a 
further hour before being connected), he was promised a call back and further information in 
answer to the questions he had raised about why the restriction was placed on his account 
and what prompted the BACS recall. HSDL acknowledged that return call didnt happen  
which led to further calls from Mr R. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings HSDL has provided and whilst Ive taken into 
account what HSDL has said about how much redress it feels is fair, I respectfully take a different view. I say this because I dont think £200 is sufficient to reflect the understandable 
degree of anxiety and stress it is evident that Mr R experienced as a result of the way HSDL 
handled his calls. HSDL has explained this was a period when it was particularly busy and 
its service was over-stretched. But HSDL has admitted failings on its part. And it is clear to 
me why Mr R felt he had to keep pressing for information. From listening to the calls, it 
sounds like Mr R only found out information and was updated when he initiated phone calls 
 which was frustrating and time consuming for him. And whilst the timescale for the BACS 
recall may have been outside HSDLs control, given what was at stake so far as Mr R was 
concerned, bearing in mind this was related to a property purchase, I think £500 better 
reflects that this was a particularly stressful situation that HSDL could have handled better.
Putting things right
HSDL should pay an amount of £500 compensation to Mr R.
My final decision
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and direct Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited to pay Mr R £500 as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman