DRN-4193784
The complaint
Miss D complains about the service she received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in 
connection with a roadside assistance policy.  
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
Miss D has a roadside assistance policy which is underwritten by UKI.
On 6 January 2023, she contacted the roadside assistance provider when her vehicle 
broke down. A recovery vehicle collected her car and Miss D was advised her vehicle 
would be taken to a garage the following day. 
Her vehicle, however, didnt arrive at the garage until 12 January 2023. In the 
intervening period Miss D spent time contacting UKI to find out what was happening 
and when she could expect her car to arrive. 
Unhappy with how her claim had been handled, Miss D complained to UKI. 
UKI apologised for the delay in delivering her vehicle to the destination garage. It 
said the delay was due to high volumes of priority customers needing its assistance. 
It recognised it could have handled the claim better and sent Miss D a cheque for 
£300. 
Miss D has said the amount of compensation doesnt reflect the problems she 
experienced, and she said UKI hadnt provided an explanation as to why her car 
travelled a different route to the one expected. She said this caused her to worry 
about her car being used improperly.
So, she brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and said he 
agreed the amount of compensation was fair and that UKI should reissue the 
cheque. He said UKI also needed to provide an explanation as to whereabouts of 
Miss Ds car on 12 January 2023.
In response, UKI explained Miss Ds car was on the back of a delivery truck with 
another vehicle which was being delivered to another location first, and thats why a 
different route was taken to the one she expected to see on her vehicles tracking 
system. 
Our Investigator was satisfied with UKIs response, but Miss D remained unhappy 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has accepted there were delays in delivering Miss Ds car to the garage and that its 
communication fell short during the time her car was in its possession. 
UKI has said the delays were due to there being a high demand for its services at the time, 
and that it had prioritised higher risk customers. Whilst I consider its explanation to be 
reasonable, UKIs lack of communication and failure to provide reliable updates exacerbated 
what was a stressful situation for Miss D. 
Understandably being without her car was frustrating and inconvenient, and whilst UKI isnt 
responsible for the breakdown of her vehicle, it could have mitigated the situation by 
providing helpful and reliable updates. 
I must keep in mind when deciding whether the amount of compensation is fair is that the 
inconvenience and frustration Miss D experienced was limited to a relatively short period of 
less than one week. So, whilst I dont doubt she was troubled by the situation Im satisfied 
the amount of compensation UKI has offered is fair in the circumstances and I wont be 
asking it to increase it. 
Vehicles location 
Part of Miss Ds complaint to UKI was that she felt it hadnt provided an explanation as to the 
whereabouts of her car and why it had travelled a particular route on 12 January 2023. Our 
Investigator agreed UKI had failed to address this point, and said it needed to give a more 
detailed explanation  which it subsequently did.
Miss D has asked this Service to verify UKIs explanation by obtaining proof her car wasnt 
left unattended or taken anywhere it shouldnt have been. But Im not satisfied I need this 
information to reach a fair decision. 
I understand Miss D has concerns about whether the security of her car has been 
compromised but she hasnt provided evidence to show this has happened. Nor have I been 
provided with evidence which shows her car was damaged or mishandled whilst in transit. 
So, even if it did take a route to the destination garage which wasnt direct, Im not 
persuaded theres been any consequences as a result, and I wouldnt make a direction 
about things that could have happened.
Whilst its disappointing UKI wasnt forthcoming with an explanation about the route Miss Ds 
car took when she originally asked for it, having read its account of what happened, Im 
satisfied its given a reasonable explanation as to why a different route was taken. And so, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further in respect of this. 
Summary
In summary, UKI offered £300 compensation and I think thats a fair resolution alongside the 
steps its taken after the Investigators view. I understand the cheque it issued previously will 
now have expired, and so my decision is that it needs to pay this compensation by reissuing 
the cheque or paying via another method. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited to pay £300 
either by reissuing the cheque or paying via another method. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman