DRN-3781613
The complaint
Mr M complains that Medical Investment & Financial Management Limited (MIFML) wrongly 
advised him to drawdown his benefits from two Personal Pensions (PPs) in 2019, triggering 
a 25% Lifetime Allowance (LTA) charge. He expects to pay a further LTA charge at age 75 
and so believes hes incurred a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M had previously taken the majority of his pension benefits in March 2018 from his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). The value of these benefits had already exceeded his 
LTA and hed been charged a Lifetime Allowance Charge (LAC). 
Mr M said that he contacted MIFML to ask for advice on the LTA in March 2019. He had a 
PP with a provider Ill refer to as provider A. And a further PP he held with another provider 
Ill refer to as provider B. But as hed not yet stopped working, he had no immediate income 
or capital requirements from his two PPs. The combined PPs were worth around £85,000.
On 12 March 2019, Mr M emailed MIFML to say hed recently read an article about the LAC. 
He felt it showed that taking his PPs as cash and paying 55% tax was possibly his best 
option. He said if his understanding was correct, hed probably do what hed suggested and 
then invest the remaining money wherever MIFML thought best. Mr M asked for MIFMLs 
thoughts. 
MIFML replied to Mr M on 13 March 2019. It said there were a variety of other options, 
including: moving to FAD and either taking or not taking income, leaving the two PP pots 
undisturbed, or purchasing an annuity. MIFML said it there was no hard and fast rule on 
the right thing to do. It said that as Mr M had already used up his LTA, taking the £85K as a 
lump sum would trigger an immediate tax charge of 55%.
MIFML said that if Mr M chose to designate the funds to FAD, that would trigger an 
immediate tax charge of 25%. It also said that a further LTA test would be carried out at age 
75. And at that point any investment growth on the funds in drawdown would be subject to a 
25% tax charge. He could then take any amount of income he wanted from this but it would 
be taxed at 40% or 45%, depending on his income tax bracket. It noted that Mr M had no 
particular need to generate further income in the short term. But said that if he died before 
age 75 there would be no further LTA test on the crystallised funds, so the full fund would 
pass tax free to his wife. 
MIFML wrote to Mr M on 20 March 2019 with a summary of the actions itd recommended for 
him after two recent meetings and a number of phone conversations and emails. This letter, 
and a fact find MIFML had also completed, recorded the following about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the advice: 
He was 59 and in good health. 
He was married with two adult children who he still financially supported. 
He was still employed. He earned around £70,000 each year and was a higher rate 
taxpayer.
His OPS pension was around £64,000 each year.
Mr M had also received a Tax-Free Cash (TFC) lump sum of around £375,000 when 
his OPS pension started. The majority of it had been used to pay down his mortgage.
When Mr M had taken his OPS pension, he breached his LTA of £1.5M. Hed used 
112.49% of his allowance and had incurred a tax charge on the excess.
He also had two PPs with two different providers with a total value of around 
£85,000.
He had no particular need of additional income for the time being, certainly not whilst 
he was still working. He had a comfortable excess of income over expenditure and a 
significant savings.
He had a balanced Attitude to Risk (ATR). 
The 20 March 2019 letter recorded that MIFML had discussed three options for his PPs with 
Mr M. He could buy an annuity, leave the PPs undisturbed or transfer them to a FAD. MIFML 
said these options were discussed at length to ensure Mr M understood the pros and cons of 
each option. And that in the end, it recommended Mr M transferred his PPs to a new FAD 
plan with provider A and incur an immediate LAC of £21.350.43 on the full value of 
£85,401.74. It said that leaving the PPs untouched would result in a higher tax charge when 
they were eventually tested against Mr Ms LTA and would also offer less flexibility.
The letter also said that it had been agreed that Mr M would defer taking an income from the 
new FAD until hed completely retired as he didnt want this income to take him into the 
Additional Tax bracket of 45%. And that the funds in the FAD would be designated 100% for 
the benefit of Mr Ms wife on his death. And covered the tax implications of funds passing in 
that circumstance whether Mr M had reached age 75 or not.
MIFML said it would charge a reduced Initial Adviser Charge of 2% on the invested sum, 
after the 25% LTA tax charge. And that it would charge ongoing fees of 0.5% of the value of 
funds held in drawdown.
Mr M complained to MIFML in December 2021 about the advice itd given him. He felt he 
may have been wrongly advised in 2019 to transfer his two PPs into the FAD and then 
immediately pay a 25% LAC, only to have the fund tested again at age 75 and suffer another 
LAC. He felt that if he hadnt designated the funds to drawdown he would only suffer one 
LAC at age 75. Therefore he felt hed suffered a financial loss. 
Mr M felt it was likely that he would live past age 75. He said it had been acknowledged in 
2019 that he didnt need any more income at that time. And wasnt likely to need any in the 
future, so the funds would eventually pass on to his family. As such, he felt that the correct 
advice at the time shouldve been to leave the PPs invested and accept the LAC at age 75 
only. 
MIFML issued its final response to the complaint in April 2022. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It felt the advice provided was appropriate for Mr M at the time it was 
recommended, primarily because it crystallised his tax liability at a known amount and 
provided additional flexibility and death benefits.MIFML said it had discussed the issues about transferring the PPs into a FAD. And that it 
had also discussed the potential tax implications, and flexible options at the time of advice. It 
said that Mr M had accepted the advice. It also said that given the length of time before Mr 
Ms pension would be tested against his LTA, it was impossible to predict what the tax 
charge might be, if any. It said this was because Mr M had a variety of options to access his 
income in the most tax efficient manner to offset any future tax charge.
Mr M didnt agree with MIFML. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She said there had 
been no loss at this stage. She didnt think Mr M would incur an additional tax charge. She 
also felt that the 25% LAC charges when Mr M transferred his two PPs into the FAD was 
lower than if hed taken the benefits as a lump sum, as he wouldve then faced a tax charge 
of 55%. So she felt the FAD option offered financial value over the lump sum option.
Our investigator acknowledged that the PPs couldve been left untouched. She said that in 
that situation, the full fund wouldve been subject to testing at age 75. And that the fund 
wouldve then included the £85,000 transferred in as well as any investment growth. She 
said that in triggering the test at the time of the advice, and incurring the immediate 25% 
charge, the net figure invested of around £63,000 that went into FAD was then exempt from 
further testing. She said that although the growth on that figure would still be tested and 
taxable, there would still be a tax saving as there was less of a fund to tax at the same rate. 
Therefore she didnt consider that the advice had caused Mr M to suffer additional taxation.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He provided further evidence informed by his financial 
advisor. He felt this showed that because of the advice, he could never be in a better 
position, only ever neutral. And that if he assumed he lived to age 75, which he felt was 
likely, hed be worse off.
Mr M agreed with our investigator that he hadnt yet made a financial loss as he hadnt yet 
reached age 75. But said that if he did survive to that age, he would be worse off.
Mr M said that it was impossible for him to be better off at 75 with the advice hed been 
given, compared with leaving his PPs where they were and doing nothing. And that MIFML 
had been wrong to state: there is no hard and fast rule as the arithmetic showed that, if no 
withdrawals were taken, as he said was likely, hed pay more tax. Mr M provided worked 
examples to prove this point. He also demonstrated that the advice would make no 
difference to his tax position on death before age 75.
Mr M also said that his concern was that if his complaint wasnt upheld now, given hed yet 
to make a loss, hed have no recourse when he was 75 and found himself out of pocket. He 
felt that this service often recommended compensation for other consumers who had been 
transferred from final salary pension schemes but had yet to make a loss. So didnt 
understand why he couldnt be compensated now for the poor advice.
Mr M said that even if compensation wasnt possible now, the correct findings should be that 
when he reached 75 MIFML should perform a calculation to quantify his loss and 
compensate him accordingly.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms points. She said that when this service considered 
redress for a consumer our remit is to put a consumer as close as possible to the position 
they wouldve been in but for the failing of the business. But, as shed explained in her view, 
she didnt agree that the advice was unsuitable or that the business had failed Mr M.
Mr M added further information to his complaint in April 2023 after the government had announced the abolition of the LTA. He said that as hed crystallised an actual loss that he 
would no longer have to crystallise, he was now worse off. And that whilst he understood 
that MIFML couldnt be held accountable for subsequent changes in tax legislation, the 
advice hed been given would never have made him better off, only ever worse off. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr M. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Ill first give a summary of the LTA and the LAC. 
LTA
The LTA was a limit on the maximum value of pension benefits a consumer could hold 
before being taxed at more than their usual rate of income tax when they withdrew benefits. 
It applied to the total of all the pensions a consumer held, including the value of pensions 
promised through any defined benefits schemes they belonged to, but excluding their State 
Pension. Each time a consumer used pension funds to take benefits, the provider would 
work out the percentage of the LTA that had been used up, based on the LTA applying at 
that time. Once 100% of the LTA had been used up at any time, further benefits taken were 
subject to an LTA tax charge if they were taken before 6 April 2023. 
The tests against the LTA are called Benefit Crystallisation Events (BCE), and the amount 
tested against the LTA is always the fund that has to be crystallised in order to provide 
benefits. A BCE also automatically occurs if the consumer has uncrystallised pension funds 
at age 75 or prior death.
If a consumer is in drawdown there was a further test when they reach age 75, just to 
capture any overall growth on the residual drawdown fund, after any income taken. 
LTA changes from 6 April 2023 will result in the removal of the LAC.
LAC
Once 100% of the LTA had been used up, a tax charge was applied to any excess over the 
LTA on benefits crystallised before 6 April 2023  the LAC. The amount of any excess was 
worked out at the BCE that took the consumer over their LTA. 
The rate of the LTA charge applied before 6 April 2023 depended on whether the consumer 
took the excess value as a lump sum or as a taxable income: 
For lump sums, the LTA charge was 55%; 
For income, a 25% charge was first taken out of the pot before any income was paid.
Income is still subject to income tax at the consumers marginal rate, and that remains the 
case even if no other LTA charges apply after April 2023.  
The 55% lump sum charge was designed to be the same as the overall tax charges a 
consumer who is a higher rate (40%) taxpayer would pay if they took the excess as an income instead. 
Mr Ms position is that MIFML wrongly advised him to transfer his two PPs into a FAD in 
2019. He considers that the correct advice at the time shouldve been to leave the money in 
the PPs invested and untouched. And then to accept the LAC at age 75 only. He feels the 
advice he was given had led to a double LAC  one immediately on transfer and the second 
one at age 75.
MIFMLs position is that its advice was reasonable despite Mr M not having any need for 
additional income at the time, as there would always be a LAC at some point. It said that 
crystalising the funds in the PPs and paying the LAC at the time of the advice had made the 
funds available if needed. And that if Mr M used any of the fund for income or capital needs 
the fund growth would reduce in the FAD, which could lead to a lower or even no tax charge 
later. It also said that Mr M was made fully aware that there would be a further LAC on any 
growth at the time of advice. 
I initially looked at whether MIFML had made the likely LAC clear to Mr M for each of his 
possible options.
Did MIFML correctly advise Mr M on the LAC under each option?
As Mr M had already exceeded the LTA at the time of the advice, any excess benefits would 
be subject to a LAC. So Mr M asked MIFML to advise him on the best way to mitigate 
against that charge. 
In his 12 March 2019 email to MIFML, Mr M indicated that taking his PPs as cash and 
paying 55% tax was possibly his best option. He said the following: 
Looks like taking it as cash is possibly the best option and just paying 55%.
55% may be the least I would pay. 
..Possibly better to take the hit now and get on with it.
And asked MIFML for its advice.
MIFML replied to Mr M on 13 March 2019, after seeking pensions technical advice on his 
specific situation. It said there were a number of options available, including leaving the two 
PPs undisturbed. And confirmed that as Mr M had already used up his LTA, taking the £85K 
as a lump sum would trigger an immediate tax charge of 55%. This would leave him with a 
net figure of £38,250 to either invest or spend. It said that if, instead, Mr M were to choose to 
designate the funds to a FAD, that would trigger an immediate tax charge of 25%. This 
would mean a net figure of £63,750 would be invested in drawdown. It also said that Mr M 
could take any amount of income he wanted from this, but that hed need to be careful to 
avoid falling into the 45% tax bracket. MIFML also said that at age 75 a further LTA test 
would be carried out on whatever investment growth had been achieved on the funds in 
drawdown. And that the growth would be subject to a 25% tax charge at that point.
MIFMLs 13 March 2019 reply also confirmed that if Mr M were to leave the net funds 
invested in the FAD, but went on to die before age 75, there would be no further LTA test 
and the full fund would pass tax free to his wife. It also noted some additional flexibility that 
the drawdown option offered if Mr Ms wife was to pre-decease him. It said that the same 
options would apply after age 75, after a further LAC test had been applied at that age.
The reply ended with MIFML stating: Thus there is no hard and fast rule on what is the right thing to do. But said that its preferred option would be to transfer to a FAD and take the 
25% tax charge, given Mr M didnt need the additional capital from taking the whole fund as 
a taxed lump sum at the time. 
From everything Ive seen, the advice to not take the funds in the two PPs as a lump sum 
taxed at 55% was reasonable. Im satisfied that the option of moving the funds into FAD and 
being taxed at 25% at the time offered financial value over the option of taking the funds as a 
lump sum taxed at 55%. I say this because it left Mr M with more than twice the capital 
invested than he couldve withdrawn net of charges. And because Mr M said he didnt need 
the money at the time. So I cant fairly say it was unreasonable for MIFML to have 
discounted the lump sum option at the time of the advice. 
In its 20 March 2019 letter to Mr M, MIFML said that as hed already breached his LTA, his 
two PPs would always be subject to a tax charge, either when their benefits were taken or 
when he reached age 75. Im satisfied that it discussed this at length with Mr M during the 
March 2019 meetings. I say this because it states, in the Background section of the 20 
March 2019 letter:
and as we discussed at some length in our email correspondence you are aware that as 
you have already breached your pension LTA then upon vesting or crystallising these 
benefits there will inevitably be a tax charge of either 25% or 55% depending upon how the 
benefits are taken.
The 20 March 2019 letter also covered Mr Ms options  these were: leave the PPs 
undisturbed, purchase an annuity or transfer the PPs to a new FAD plan. From what Ive 
seen, the option to take the whole fund as a taxed lump sum had been reasonably ruled out 
in earlier correspondence. 
MIFML said these options were discussed at length to ensure Mr M understood the pros and 
cons of each option. Im satisfied that this was the case based on what Ive seen in the 20 
March 2019 letter. I say this because it states:
Leaving the pension undisturbed would mean that there was no immediate tax charge and 
that the funds could grow until they were needed, or until you reached 75, at which point it is 
likely you would face a 25% LAC on the full fund value at that time, whatever that value was.
The option to purchase an annuity was also ruled out as you had no need of an income at 
the time of advice, and the prevailing annuity rates represented poor value for money.
Im satisfied that MIFML also covered the potential LAC on death benefits that could be 
payable either before or after age 75 in its correspondence with Mr M. 
As Ive seen no evidence that MIFML failed to advise Mr M on the tax implications of each 
option, I dont think it did anything wrong here.
I next considered whether MIFML shouldve advised Mr M to leave his two PPs untouched.
Was the correct advice to leave the two PPs untouched?
From what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that MIFML didnt explain that if Mr M transferred his 
two PPs into a FAD he would immediately pay a 25% LAC, and then have the fund tested 
again at age 75 when he would potentially pay another LAC. I say this because this is clearly 
stated in the 13 March 2019 letter.
I agree with Mr M that if he survived to age 75 without taking any money from his FAD, and if the investment return on his FAD was greater than 33.33%, hed pay more tax in total than 
he wouldve paid if hed left his PPs untouched. This of course assumes no change to the 
LTA and LAC regime in force at the time of the advice. 
But I dont agree with Mr M that it was impossible for him to be better off at 75 with the 
advice hed been given, compared with leaving his PPs where they were and doing nothing. 
And therefore Im not persuaded that the advice was incorrect. 
I say this because I dont agree that Mr M made it clear to MIFML that he didnt intend to 
access his FAD under any circumstances. Nor do I consider that he made it clear to MIFML 
that it was of primary importance to him how much of his fund, after tax, would pass on to his 
family. 
Mr M said MIFML had acknowledged in 2019 that he didnt need any more income at that 
time and that he wasnt likely to need any in the future. While I agree with the first part of this 
statement, I cant reasonably agree with the second. I say this because while the 20 March 
2019 letter did acknowledge that Mr M wasnt going to immediately access his FAD, it also 
said hed defer taking an income from it until hed completely retired, as he didnt want this 
income to take him into the Additional Tax bracket of 45%. Im satisfied that Mr M was likely 
to retire before age 75. Therefore Im persuaded that he was likely to access his FAD before 
75. I also say this because the evidence shows that Mr M wanted to access his funds in a 
tax-efficient manner. And therefore Im persuaded that he intended to access them in a way 
that wouldnt take him into the 45% tax bracket after hed fully retired.
It wouldnt have been possible for Mr M to access his PP funds before age 75 if he hadnt 
either paid a 25% LAC after putting them into the FAD or paid 55% and withdrawn them 
completely. 
I appreciate that Mr M believes that the correct advice at the time shouldve been to leave 
the PPs invested and accept the LAC at age 75 only. But Im not persuaded that this 
wouldve been better advice than the advice actually given under the circumstances. 
I say this because although I can see that Mr M has complained that the advice would lead 
to a smaller fund to be passed to his family on his death, Ive not seen any evidence that he 
told MIFML that he wouldnt draw any income from his FAD, and that the main priority was 
passing monies on following his death. Instead, as I noted above, Im satisfied that Mr M 
understood all of the options presented to him, including the tax implications, and that he 
chose the option that allowed him to access his PP funds at any point of his choosing. So I 
cant fairly conclude that the advice was unsuitable. 
I finally considered the recent changes to the LTA.
Recent changes to the LTA
As Mr M has said, we now know that if hed chosen to leave his PPs untouched, he couldve 
avoided a LAC altogether. He said hed crystallised an actual loss that he would no longer 
have to crystallise. And although he understood that MIFML couldnt be held responsible for 
the change, it shouldve known that the advice hed been given would never have made him 
better off. 
I understand why Mr M has made this point, but I dont agree. From what Ive seen, but for 
the advice, Im satisfied that Mr M wouldve taken the whole fund as a lump sum. In that 
case, he wouldve already paid a 55% LAC rather than the 25% LAC he paid instead. But in 
any event, as Ive covered in detail above, Im not persuaded that the advice MIFML gave Mr 
M was unsuitable under the LTA/LAC charge in force at the time of the advice. Overall, Im satisfied that MIFML made all available options clear to Mr M and that he chose 
to enter FAD so that he could access drawdown if needed after his full retirement. I can see 
that Mr M made his decision after hed received MIFMLs written recommendation. Therefore 
Im satisfied that he made an informed choice to favour the ability to take income from his 
PPs as and when he needed to, over leaving the maximum possible fund to his family on his 
death. 
I agree with Mr M that the overall LAC couldnt be lower than the do nothing option if he 
didnt access the FAD or die before age 75. But I agree with MIFML that if Mr M used any of 
the fund for income or capital needs the fund growth would reduce in the FAD, which could 
lead to a lower or even no LAC later. And I also consider that in putting his funds into the 
FAD, Mr M had the ability to take money out of his pension when it suited him, and in a way 
that could help him to minimise his overall income tax. Therefore I dont consider that the 
advice was unsuitable. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman