DRN-2567331
The complaint
Mr F complains that Link Financial Investments Limited failed to process his ISA transfer 
request promptly and that this resulted in a financial loss due to a fall in the investments 
value during this hiatus. He also says it failed to return is calls despite promising to do so.
 
What happened
An investigator at this service summarised the timeline of events as follows:
Mr F made the transfer request through his building society and Link received it on 
13 March 2020. Upon reviewing it, it noticed that he requested that it encash/transfer 
his current year ISA subscriptions but, in fact, he hadnt made any subscriptions 
since the previous year
To clarify things, it contacted Mr Fs registered financial advisor - via email  on 16 
March, 19 March and finally 30 March 2020. After receiving no response, Link 
phoned the advisor on 6 April 2020
It then processed Mr Fs transfer request, using that days valuation point. However, 
by this time, the value of Mr F's shares had decreased
Mr F contacted Link to find out why the transfer hadnt taken place earlier and spoke 
to an agent who said she would call back that day between 3pm and 3.15pm She 
didnt
Mr F and his representative rang Link again but couldnt get through till a third call
In this call Link explained the delay arose to its failure to reach Mr Fs financial 
advisor to clarify his instructions
Mr F said Link should have rung him personally as his advisor had nothing to do with 
the transfer. Link said it was part of its normal process to contact an advisor, one was 
on file, to deal with any queries. This, in its experience, was the most effective way to 
resolve queries
The investigator did not feel Mr Fs complaint should be upheld, saying:
The evidence demonstrated that Link did not receive the form till 13 March
It emailed Mr Fs advisor on the next working day (the 16th, a Monday)
So, he didnt accept Mr Fs claim that there was a seven-day delay before it acted
Link was entitled to query the years ISA subscription in question
Hed reviewed the emails which Link said it sent to Mr Fs advisor and its account 
was accurate; and the advisor had not responded to them
Links standard practice was to contact a customers registered financial advisor 
about any queries and this was not a practice this service would deem unreasonable
During the attempts to contact Mr Fs advisor, the country went into lockdown. This 
meant Link had to close their offices and work from home. As this was a unique 
circumstance, it did mean there was delays in dealing with the ongoing transfer of 
shares and contacting advisors
Government guidelines say that transferring ISA funds to another provider shouldnt 
take longer than 30 working days. Link did meet this target
While its communication with Mr F was unsatisfactory, Link has apologised for this
Ultimately, the value of the shares reduced (on 20 March 2020) due to a unit price 
adjustment (UPA) made by Prudential, seven days after they received the transfer 
request and its unlikely that Link would have been able to speak to Mr F before the 
UPA - especially because they werent made aware of the reduction until late in the 
day
Mr F did not agree, saying:
The time difference between Link trying to reach the financial advisor was not 
acceptable  any queries should have been directed to himself
What occurred was in fact a breach of confidentiality. If he had wanted the financial 
advisor to attend to the transfer, he would have instructed him. It does not matter that 
he is paying for his services. As to Link stating "standard practice" it is just a cover for 
their incompetence
Using the services of a financial advisor does not give him/her carte blanche 
authority to discuss the client's affairs, financial or otherwise to anyone, without 
permission from the account holder
He believes that Link, along with most financial institutions knew that the shares were 
going to plummet and used delaying tactics to its benefit
If Link had used common sense and contacted him on the 16th, the transaction could 
have been completed before the UPA
He has transferred funds from accounts previously and knows that it takes no more 
than a couple of days, not weeks, for the transaction to occur
Lockdown did not begin until 23rd March, so that is no excuse to try and exonerate 
Link
To wait from the 16th March to the 6th April for a reply is incompetence. One phone-
call to him would have solved the enquiry
The notion that waiting this long for a reply was within normal time limits is insulting
If the aim of the Financial Ombudsman Service is not to punish businesses when 
they fail to provide a service, what then are your actual aims?
The investigator said that Link acknowledged it should have contacted him, so why 
isnt it responsible for the monies lost?
He also failed to recognise that his overall complaint concerns a lack of 
professionalism and misconduct which has caused him to lose several hundred 
pounds through no fault of his own
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, there is little I 
can add to what she wrote in her View.
Firstly, its important to explain that my role, and that of this service, is to assess whether a 
business clearly did something wrong, not merely that it might have done things differently. I 
fully sympathise with Mr F - and completely understand his disappointment about the 
investigators conclusions. But in my view, this is one of those cases where what happened 
was very unfortunate, but the evidence does not demonstrate that the business did anything 
wrong.
Ultimately, I believe Link was entitled to contact Mr Fs registered financial advisor in the first 
instance and to follow-up with several further emails. Mr Fs advisor admits he read these 
emails but was waiting to get in touch with Mr F before responding.  I also dont accept that this was a breach of confidentiality and have seen nothing to indicate that Link was not 
entitled to do this.
I think Link ought to have been more proactive after failing to get a response to the second 
email on 19 March and not have waited a fortnight before calling the advisor. But as the UPA 
was announced on 20 March, I dont believe it needed to have acted sufficiently quickly to 
have met this deadline i.e. it was not unreasonable to wait three days after sending the 16 
March email before sending a reminder and I dont think it would have been unreasonable to 
wait a further couple of days before following things up.
So, I cannot fairly conclude that Link ought to have resolved the problem before the UPA 
was announced on 20 March.
As the investigator explained, there is a requirement that such transfers happen within 30 
days. While this seems excessive and most are completed far more quickly, it does also 
mean I cannot reasonably conclude that Link did not complete the transfer in the necessary 
time.
I also dont accept Mr Fs argument about when Lockdown first affected businesses. The 
Prime Minister announced on 16 March that all non-essential travel and contact should 
cease and people should work from home if possible. So it is likely that Links capacity to 
deal with queries and respond promptly to phone calls was affected. In this context, while it 
was unfortunate that Mr F did not get the phone call promised on the day in question, I dont 
believe this issue was sufficient to warrant Link paying compensation.
Finally, I acknowledge that Mr F had made other points, such as Links alleged reasons for 
delaying. I have considered all these but do not believe any of them warrants upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman