DRN-1972748
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled and settled her 
home insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs I took out a home insurance policy with Fairmead on 19 April 2019. 
On 8 May 2019, Mrs I fell while in her bathroom leading to damage to the shower cubicle 
and bath panel. Mrs I had to attend hospital and in the rush, the sink tap was left running 
which led to water damage to the sink vanity unit and floor.
Mrs I contacted Fairmead about the damage to some of her bathroom items as a result of 
the accident. It agreed liability on 20 May 2019. Fairmeads contractors reviewed the works 
required on 23 May 2019. It found damage to the quadrant shower enclosure, curved plastic 
bath panel, sink vanity unit and bathroom floor. Because the contractor said it couldnt 
guarantee its work because of the condition of the bathroom, Fairmead offered a cash 
settlement. Mrs I didnt accept the cash settlement so Fairmead asked her for quotes for 
repairs.
Mrs I provided a quote for repairs and bathroom fitter. But this quote included additional 
things that were not damaged in the accident. So, on receipt of the quote, Fairmead offered 
£1,176.04 in settlement of the claim. This amount was after £100 excess had been deducted 
and excluding VAT. VAT would be paid upon receipt of a VAT invoice. Fairmead explained 
that it didnt agree to the full quote amount because it included items not damaged by the 
incident.
Mrs I complained about having to accept a cash settlement, the settlement amount and the 
level of customer service she received. Fairmead responded on 17 January 2020 and 
maintained its decision to offer £1,176.04 in settlement of the claim. It also offered £150 in 
compensation to recognise its poor claim handling.
Our investigator said the claim settlement and trouble and upset payment offered by 
Fairmead was fair. Mrs I disagreed and provided a witness statement for us to consider. This 
statement said that Mrs I had been promised everything was included in the claim aside from 
the WC unit, toilet and bath. Our investigator considered the statement, but her decision 
didnt change. 
Mrs I provided a further quote - £1,735, based on the work Fairmead was prepared to cover. 
However, this quote mentioned that the vanity unit wasnt available without the sink and that 
the bath panel isnt available unless it could be obtained from the original manufacturers. 
Mrs I said that if Fairmead added £150 to the quote to recognise the items she couldnt get, 
making the amount payable £1,885, she would accept this.
Our investigator put this to Fairmead and it asked that Mrs I or her builder visited their 
recommended website to source the bath panel. Mrs I didnt provide any further information 
regarding the bath panel, and she then asked Fairmead to remove that from the quote and pay the remaining figure. Fairmead increased its settlement offer by 10% to £1,403.64 less 
the policy excess - £1,303.64. As it had already paid out the £1,176.04 to Mrs I it meant Mrs 
I would receive a further £127.60. Mrs I didnt accept the offer of settlement.
Our investigator looked again and said there was no evidence that Mrs I had tried to source 
the bath panel as recommended by Fairmead.  She concluded the fairest way to settle the 
claim was to honour Mrs Is quote (£1,735) and for Fairmead to not pay towards the bath 
panel and vanity unit.
Mrs I agreed with our investigator. Fairmead didnt agree. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
The aim of Mrs Is policy is to place her in the position she was in before the accident. And 
the policy allows Fairmead to choose how to settle the claim.
Fairmead said it offered a cash settlement because its contractors couldnt guarantee any 
work it carried out. This was because of the condition of the bathroom. The amount it offered 
was the amount it would take its own contractors to place Mrs I in the position she would 
have been in before the accident.
Mrs I had to source her own contractor to complete the work and this has cost more than 
offered by Fairmead. And the final quote Mrs I got didnt include the bath panel and sink 
vanity unit - as these couldn't be sourced by this contractor. 
Fairmead chose to cash settle Mrs Is claim. Therefore, the amount it should offer to settle 
the claim should reflect the cost to Mrs I in getting the repairs done. It could be argued that 
Fairmead was forced to settle in this way because of the condition of the bathroom so it 
shouldnt pay more than if it had the option to put matters right itself.
However, I dont have any details about why the bathroom condition prevented the 
contractors from guaranteeing any work. So, I dont think its shown this was the only 
settlement method available to it. And its unfair that Mrs I loses out because of the 
settlement Fairmead chose. 
Overall, I dont think Fairmead have offered enough to indemnify Mrs I and put her back in 
the position she was in prior to the accident. But Ive taken into account that Mrs I hasnt 
given any reasons or demonstrated that she tried to locate a replacement bath panel or use 
the website provided by Fairmead - which it said may've enabled her to find the items her 
contractor couldn't source.
I think in the circumstances it was reasonable that Mrs I went ahead with the quote she had. 
Mrs I has a large family and needed a working bathroom. Circumstances, that have been 
discussed by our investigator, prevented her from getting more quotes and based on the 
how long ago the claim was initiated I can understand she was pleased to have found a 
builder that agreed to do the work. Putting things right
So, considering everything I think its fair and reasonable that Fairmead pay the quote Mrs I 
has provided. But I dont expect Fairmead to pay anything further towards the bath panel or 
the vanity unit as this hasnt been included in Mrs Is quote, and Mrs I has said she will 
accept a settlement without these items. So, she can pay the builder to finish the work.
Regarding the claim handling, Fairmead acknowledged it couldve handled things better and 
offered £150 to recognise this and staff rudeness. Having considered the evidence 
presented, I think this amount is fair. So, I wont be recommending anything further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above.
I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to increase the settlement to £1,735 and pay any 
outstanding balance to Mrs I.
And if not already paid, pay Mrs I the £150 compensation.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman