DRN-3916410
The complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund him the money 
he lost falling victim to a scam.
Mr W is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr W 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr W found an advert for the investment business Skyline Markets (X) on 
Facebook. Xs website looked professional so interested in the investment opportunity Mr W 
completed a form with his contact information. Before long Mr W received a call from X.
X explained to Mr W that he could make money investing with it. X explained it used the 
latest technology and Mr X could only make money. Mr X read the positive reviews on Xs 
website and persuaded by Xs professional approach decided to start investing.
Mr W started by investing a small amount and could see he was making a profit. X then 
persuaded Mr W to invest larger sums.
Mr W attempted to make a withdrawal from the investment which was unsuccessful. He also 
tried contacting X by phone and email, but these attempts were also ignored.
Mr W made the following payments to X:
Date Amount Payee Payment Method
8 November 2016 £1,000 Skyline Markets Credit Card
21 November 2016 £7,500 Skyline Markets Debit Card
20 November 2016 £10,000 Skyline Markets Debit Card
Mr W has been unable to recover any of the payments he made as part of the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. Both 
Mr W and HSBC disagreed with our Investigators view, so this complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr W has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mr W and HSBC sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether HSBC
should refund the money Mr W lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr W made
Mr W made the payments into the scam by debit card and credit card. When a payment is 
made by card the only option HSBC has to recover the payment is to request a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Unfortunately, Mr W reported this scam to HSBC outside of time limits that would allow 
HSBC to request a chargeback for the payments he made. So, I am satisfied HSBC was 
unable to recover the payments Mr W made to X.
Should HSBC have prevented the payments Mr W made? 
Mr W has accepted he authorised the payments he made to X, so the starting point here is 
that Mr W is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do 
have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have stepped in when Mr W was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
I think it could be argued that the larger payments to a new payee should have triggered 
HSBCs fraud prevention systems as being out of character for Mr W. However, I dont think 
HSBC stepping in to check the payments would have made a difference. Mr W would have 
confirmed he was making the payments himself for the purpose of investing with a broker he 
had found online. This type of scam was in its infancy at the time, and I think it was unlikely 
that HSBC would have been able to recognise the scam and stop it from taking place. So, it 
is not responsible for having not prevented the scam from taking place.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 can only be considered for the payment Mr W made 
on his credit card.
I have considered if HSBC is liable under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set
out what the Act says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a. under a non-commercial agreement,
b. so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
I will go through each point in turn:
Firstly, I am satisfied that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement under the Act. And Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-
creditor-supplier chain.
1. Mr W (the Debtor)
2. HSBC (the creditor)
3. X (the supplier)
Im further satisfied that the payments to X were financed by the agreement, that X
misrepresented to Mr W that they were a legitimate company when they were operating a
scam and he relied on these misrepresentations to enter into an agreement with them. Im
further satisfied that no single payments to them were below £100 or more than £30,000.
As a result of this I am satisfied the payment Mr W made on his credit card of £1,000 should 
be refunded.
HSBC has argued that Mr W didnt engage with it about the disputed payments. But I think 
Mr Ws representative clearly explained Mr Ws complaint and HSBC had enough to decide 
whether Mr W should receive a refund under S.75 for the credit card payment he made. So, 
this doesnt change my decision.
Mr W said HSBC should refund more of the payments he made as it should have been able 
to prevent the scam taking place. Mr W said regulatory bodies had published articles and 
warnings about this type of scam before Mr W made the payments. I have considered what 
Mr W has said but while some information was available, as Ive said above, this type of 
scam was in its infancy when Mr W fell victim to it, and I wouldnt have expected HSBC to 
have developed an established approach by this time to prevent the scam progressing. So, 
these points dont change my decision either.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund the £1,000 payment Mr W made into the scam via his 
credit card.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Mr W from 
the time Mr W made the payment to the time HSBC UK Bank Plc provides the refund (less 
any lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman