DRN-3265654
The complaint
Company C (C) complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly refused to open a euro 
bank account for them without explanation and provided poor customer service.  
C say HSBCs decision was based on discrimination, and the person making it was not 
qualified to do so.  
What happened
In April 2020, the director of C called HSBC to enquire about opening a euro business 
account. C was told the relevant department would call him back. C then calls over the next 
few days to complain about not getting a call-back as promised. 
The relevant department called C three days after C had initially called HSBC to enquire 
about opening the account.  
Cs director spoke to HSBCs agent about the application, at the end of which, Cs 
application for the account was declined.  
C complained to HSBC. In its final response, HSBC says its satisfied the account 
application was processed in accordance with its criteria  and the decision to decline was in 
line with its policy. 
Unhappy with this, C referred their complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into the matter. They sent C two responses - both times they didnt uphold Cs complaint. In 
summary, the key findings they made were: 
- Banks have their own eligibility criteria for opening accounts, and this isnt something 
this service can interfere with 
- The evidence didnt show C had been discriminated against nor was this a factor in 
the account application being declined 
- HSBCs website made it clear C would have to discuss the application with a 
business specialist  and that the application depended on that discussion  
C disagreed and reiterated HSBCs agent had been discriminatory based on the directors 
ethnicity - and has asked unnecessary questions they werent qualified to ask. 
As C disagreed with what our investigator said, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Cs complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
news  so Ill explain why. 
Banks generally set their own policies and processes for dealing with new account 
applications but will have regard to any legal and regulatory obligations placed upon it. Its 
not generally a matter for this service to interfere with a banks policy and its processes 
which determine whether it opens an account. 
But I do need to consider if HSBC acting fairly and reasonably in the way it did so in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. I note HSBCs website, and the calls C had with 
it, show a call from a specific department needed to take place to assess Cs application for 
a euro bank account. 
So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by following its own process, nor do I think 
anything is unfair about it this. 
I note it took three days from the initial enquiry for someone to call C - a day later than they 
were told this would happen. I also note C made calls each day to chase this up. But I dont 
think a days delay to what C was told likely caused it any real detriment. Nor is it a 
significant delay that makes me think HSBC have delivered poor customer service.
Ive listened carefully to all the calls HSBC has given me which took place around the time of 
the application between it and C. Having done that, Im satisfied HSBCs staff were 
professional and helpful. And I dont think - with specific focus on the main application call - 
the business advisor said or did anything which shows HSBC treated C differently or with 
prejudice. 
HSBC asked C a set of questions to determine if it was happy to open the euro account. And 
based on Cs answers and HSBCs own application criteria, it decided it did not want that 
business. I havent seen anything that makes me think this decision was based on 
discrimination - or that it was unfair or unreasonable. 
As I alluded to earlier, its generally for a bank to decide whether they want to provide a 
facility to any particular customer  in the way a consumer is free to decide if they want a 
particular product from a bank. Unless, theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say a bank must open a bank account. And as Ive said, I dont think HSBC 
have done anything wrong by declining Cs application for a foreign currency bank account.
Lastly, its not for me to determine if the agent C spoke to was qualified to ask C the 
questions it did. But for the sake of completeness, having listened to the call, it appears the 
agent was simply garnering information to help HSBC assess the application. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman