DRN-3090325
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that American Express Service Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex)
suspended his credit card account.    
What happened
Mr L received a letter from Amex in June 2020 which advised that his account was
considered as being in a state of persistent debt and that Mr L needed to reduce the balance
of the account by approximately £1,000 within 60 days or his account might be suspended.
 
Mr L contacted Amex by telephone within the 60 days and asked for confirmation of the
amount he needed to pay so that his account was no longer considered as being in a state
of persistent debt and to avoid the potential account suspension. Amexs representative
couldnt provide Mr L with an amount that he needed to pay at that time but advised Mr L
that a further letter would be sent to him which would provide the answers to Mr L enquiries.
 
Mr L didnt receive the letter that Amex had promised, and the next correspondence that he
did receive advised that he needed to pay the full balance of his account to avoid the
account being suspended. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
 
Amex looked at Mr Ls complaint. But they felt that theyd followed the process for accounts
considered as being in persistent debt as mandated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA), and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ls complaint. However, Amex did
acknowledge that Mr L had been provided with incorrect information when hed called in and
spoken to Amex, so they apologised to Mr L for this and credited his account with £25 by
way of compensation.
 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Amex had suspended Mr
Ls account appropriately and that the payment of compensation paid by Amex to Mr L
represented a fair outcome to that aspect of Mr Ls complaint. So, they also didnt uphold the
complaint.
 
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 August 2021 as follows:
The FCA considers that a credit account is in a state of persistent debt if the level of 
interest which accrues on that account is such that the monthly payments made 
towards that account result in the customer paying more in interest and charges than 
they do towards paying off the capital balance on the account over a prolonged period.
 
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum payment 
required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying the monthly interest 
that accrues but making little progress towards reducing the capital balance 
outstanding on the account - meaning that monthly interest payments at a similar level 
keep becoming due.
 
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such a situation for credit account 
holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must manage 
accounts that are considered as being in a state of persistent debt. These rules came 
into force in March 2018 and include that a credit provider must send letters to 
persistent debt customers advising that their account is considered as being in 
persistent debt and explaining the level of additional monthly payment that the 
customer needs to make so that their account is no longer considered as being in such 
a state.
 
These letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences, should their 
account remain in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension of the 
account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full outstanding 
balance over a period of no more than four years.
 
Amex contend that they followed the FCA rules surrounding persistent debt in this
Instance. They sent the requisite letters to Mr L, and when Mr L didn't make the 
payments necessary to take his account out of persistent debt, Amex suspended Mr 
L's account and advised Mr L of the need to clear the full outstanding balance owing on 
the account.
 
But the FCA's position on persistent debit isn't as routine as I've explained above, and 
in February 2020 the FCA contacted credit providers to clarify its position, and made 
specific reference to how a business should treat persistent debt 36-month ("PD36") 
customers - such as Mr L is in this instance - and also provided clarification on when a 
credit provider should suspend a customer account, and when not to.
 
For instance, regarding account suspensions, the FCA state:
 
"We are also concerned that some firms may be planning a 'blanket' suspension 
of credit cards for all their PD36 customers.
 
The PD rules only require the suspension of cancellation of cards where a 
customer:
 
a) does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time specified 
by the firm;
 
b) confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but that they 
will not make the increased payments.
 
We remind firms that  when they choose to suspend or cancel a customer's 
access to credit they must serve customers with a notice giving reasons for this, 
and those reasons must be objectively justified.
 
There is no regulatory requirement (outside of those mentioned above) that a 
card must be suspended where a customer is in persistent debt, so an objective 
justification could not rely on such a requirement."
 In this instance, Mr L did contact Amex within the time specified for him to do so. And 
when Mr L spoke with Amex, he confirmed that hed be willing to make the necessary 
payment but wanted confirmation of the amount that he needed to pay.
 
As such, Im satisfied that neither clause (a) or (b) above apply in this instance, and 
that therefore, contrary to what Amex explained to Mr L, there was no requirement for 
Amex to suspend Mr Ls account.
 
Furthermore, given that Amex justified the suspension of Mr Ls account on the basis 
that they followed the persistent debt rules, it isnt the case that Amex provided an 
objectively justified reason as to why they did suspend Mr Ls account.
 
It follows from this that my provisional decision will be that I am upholding this 
complaint in Mr Ls favour, and that my provisional instructions to Amex will be that 
they must place Mr Ls account into the position that it should be in, had the 
suspension never taken place.
 
To this effect, Amex must unsuspend Mr Ls account and inform Mr L of the amount 
that he needs to reduce his balance to in order for the account to no longer be 
considered as being in a state of persistent debt  and allow Mr L 30-days to make that 
payment.
 
Finally, Amex must also make a payment of £100 to Mr L to compensate him for any 
distress and inconvenience this matter may have caused. This compensation payment 
may only take the form of a credit to Mr Ls Amex account if Mr L provides his 
permission for it to do so.
 
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr L and Amex the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mr L and Amex both confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional 
decision. 
 
However, Amex did explain that their position here was that the suspension of Mr Ls 
account wasnt undertaken on the basis of the persistent debt regulations but rather was 
undertaken on the basis of a clause in the terms and conditions of the account that permits 
account suspensions. 
 
I can appreciate Amexs position here, to a degree. However, if it were the case that Amex 
were objectively justifying their decision to suspend Mr Ls account by anything other than 
the persistent debt regulations, then it would be expected that this would have been 
explained to Mr L in the letters he received from Amex. 
 
But upon reviewing the letters that Amex sent to Mr L, its clear that this wasnt the case, and 
its evident from the wording of those letters that the suspension of Mr Ls account was 
justified by Amex to Mr L on the basis of it being a consequence of the FCAs persistent debt 
regulations.
 
All of which means that I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Ls favour on the 
basis as outlined in my provisional decision above, and I can confirm that my final decision is 
that I do uphold this complaint on that basis.
  
Putting things rightAmex must unsuspend Mr Ls account and inform Mr L of the amount he needs to reduce his 
balance so that the account is no longer considered as being in a state of persistent debt. 
Amex must then allow Mr L 30-days to make the necessary payment.
 
Amex must also make a payment of £100 to Mr L to compensate him for any distress and 
inconvenience this matter may have caused. This compensation payment must not take the 
form of a credit to Mr Ls Amex account unless Mr L gives his permission for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Service Europe 
Limited (AESEL) on the basis explained above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman