DRN-3414186
The complaint
Mr B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unreasonably increased the premiums for his 
lifetime pet insurance policy and it mis-sold the policy. My references to Allianz include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr B had pet insurance for his dog, insured by Allianz, since 2008. In 2015 Mr B cancelled 
his previous policy, Allianz says due to the price, and a new lifetime policy was issued with 
an annual premium of £423.58.
Mr B says the premiums increased considerably over the years and for the policy renewal in 
November 2021 the price Allianz wanted him to pay was an extortionate increase. He 
cancelled the policy. Mr B complains that:
Allianz mis-sold the policy as the reason he took lifetime cover was because it told 
him the dog would be covered when he was older, it would keep the cover the same 
and the premiums low. Instead Allianz had just increased the premium each year. 
Hed not raised the price issue before as he wanted to have insurance protection for 
his dog.
When his dog became a risk to Allianz it increased the premium to an unaffordable 
level and hes now been priced out of having insurance for his dog.
Mr B wanted the premiums he paid refunded. 
Allianz said it had acted fairly as:
Mr B contacted it in 2015 because of the price of his original policy and he took out a 
new policy to get a lower price so he knew premiums increased.
It no longer had the 2015 policy sales call but the policy terms and the insurance 
product information document (IPID) sent to Mr B over the years were clear 
premiums would increase over the lifetime of the policy.
If Mr B was unhappy with the premiums he could have taken insurance with 
someone else, but hed continued with the policy until 2021.The premium increases 
were in line with its pricing structure. It provided its pricing information.
Mr Bs change of address, which meant different risks, significantly contributed to the 
increased premium for the November 2021 policy renewal. When Mr B phoned it to 
change his address it told him the address change could affect the renewal premium 
and it hadnt applied the additional premium immediately.
Our investigator looked at Allianzs pricing information showing how the premiums had been 
calculated and thought Allianz hadnt treated Mr B any differently to other policyholders in 
the same circumstances. So she was satisfied Allianz had acted fairly when pricing the 
policy. But she recognised the premium increase had been a lot more than Mr B had 
expected and didnt think Allianz had given him clear enough information about the long term 
costs when he took out the lifetime policy. She recommended Allianz pay Mr B £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered as a result of the shock 
caused by the high premium increase.
Allianz doesnt agree it should pay compensation and wants an ombudsmans decision. It 
said Mr B shouldnt have been shocked at the increase in premiums as price increases had 
happened with his previous policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints about the increasing cost of a lifetime pet insurance policy 
I need to look at the information Allianz gave to Mr B when he first bought the policy to see 
how clearly the long term costs of the policy were explained. But its not the role of this 
service to tell an insurer how to work out the risk its insuring or what to charge for that risk. 
So I cant say whether Mr Bs premiums were too high or that he should have been charged 
a different amount.
Allianz told us that when Mr B bought the policy in 2015 hed contacted it because of the 
price increase for the policy hed taken out in 2008. Allianz no longer has those call 
recordings and given the time thats passed I dont think thats unreasonable of Allianz.
Ive considered the evidence that is available. The policy terms do allow Allianz to change 
the premium at renewal and since the 2018 policy renewal the IPID has said under the 
heading How your premium can change:
Your pets age, increasing veterinary costs and advancements in veterinary medicine 
can all affect the premium you pay. These mean your premium will increase over the 
lifetime of your policy. However, (Allianz) will not increase your premium as a direct 
result of any claim you make.
So from 2018 Allianz did tell Mr B the premiums would increase. And as Mr B already had a 
pet insurance policy for about seven years when he called Allianz in 2015 to see if he could 
get a lower price I think he was aware these policies could increase in price each year. Ive 
seen no information about how much the premiums increased from 2008 to 2015.
I understand Mr B hadnt made any claims on the policy taken out in 2015 and theres no 
evidence that his dog has any pre-existing conditions. On the information I have Mr B wasnt 
in the position that he needed to keep his policy with Allianz so that a pre-existing condition 
was covered. Mr B has now cancelled this policy. He acknowledges that he could have 
raised his concern about the premiums sooner but says he wanted to continue to have his 
dog insured. That suggests his dog may have had a pre-existing condition Mr B hadnt 
claimed for, although Ive no evidence of that, or he didnt appreciate how his policy worked.
The trigger for Mr Bs complaint seems to have been the premium Allianz gave for the 
November 2021 policy renewal following his change of address. Allianz told Mr B that his 
change of address would affect his premium at the next policy renewal and I note it didnt 
immediately increase the premium from the date he moved. However, for the November 
2021 policy the premium was £1,161.36 which was increase of about 41% on the previous 
years premium. Allianzs pricing information shows that from 2017 the increase in premium 
had been about 17% each year so I understand why the large additional increase for the 
2021 renewal shocked Mr B.
While I cant say that Mr Bs premium for the 2021 policy renewal, or the other annual 
premiums, was too high I can consider if Allianz treated Mr B fairly and in line with how it 
would have treated other policyholders in the same position. In Allianzs final response letter it told Mr B some of the factors it takes into account in setting 
the price of the premium; age, gender, breed and location of the pet, inflation and the 
average increase in veterinary fees. Ive looked at the confidential business sensitive 
information provided by Allianz about the premium calculations, which our investigator 
explained cant be shared with Mr B. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Allianz treated 
Mr B any differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same position. 
I dont think Allianz has done anything wrong in charging Mr B the premiums he paid. And as 
his dog was covered, subject to the policy terms, while the policy was in existence and 
theres no evidence the policy was mis-sold theres no basis for me to say Allianz should 
refund to Mr B all the premiums hed paid.
However, its clear the 41% premium increase for the November 2021 policy renewal was a 
lot more than Mr B was expecting especially when he hadnt made any claims. He was 
shocked enough to cancel the lifetime cover policy. I accept what he says about that being  
emotionally difficult to do now his dog is older and will probably need treatment, particularly 
as hed had a policy in place for his dog since 2008. Mr B may be able to find other 
insurance for his dog but, even if he doesnt have a pre-existing condition, other insurance at 
his age may be difficult to obtain and likely to be expensive.
From what Ive seen I dont think Allianz made it clear enough to Mr B when he bought the 
policy that the premium on his lifetime policy would almost certainly increase at each 
renewal and the increases could be significant.
Ive considered what is likely to have happened if Mr B had been given better information 
about the future cost of the policy when he first took it out. As he took a lifetime pet 
insurance policy I think he wanted the greater protection the cover offered and that its 
probable he still would have taken out a lifetime policy. 
But I think Allianzs lack of clarity about the likely level of premium increase that ultimately 
resulted in the policy price increasing by 41% in one year caused Mr B unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience so Allianz should pay Mr B compensation.
Putting things right
Taking all the above into account I think its reasonable for Allianz to pay Mr B £150 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr B £150 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman