DRN-3469490
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (AXA) settled a claim 
under her Goods in Transit insurance after her television was broken during a property 
move. 
Mrs L is represented in her complaint but Ill only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Mrs L moved house on 15 June 2021. She used a removal company, who recommended 
she bought Goods in Transit insurance so that her belongings were insured while they were 
being moved. Her insurance was underwritten by AXA. 
During the move, Mrs Ls television was broken. She put in a claim for the damage. She said 
her television was around seven years old. And had cost around £1,650 to buy. She said the 
replacement cost for the television was £769. This was the cost of a mid-range brand new 
replacement.
AXA agreed to pay the claim. But told Mrs L that under the cover shed arranged, the 
settlement would take into account the age, quality, degree of use and consequent market 
value. They said that the policy wasnt "new for old". They said that as the television was 
seven years old, they recommended settlement of £250. When this was adjusted for the £50 
policy excess, they approved settlement of the claim for £200.
Mrs L was very disappointed with the settlement offer. She said the television was in full 
working order and a top of the range product when shed bought it. She asked AXA to 
reconsider the settlement theyd offered as it wasnt her fault that the television had been 
broken. 
AXA sent their final response to the complaint on 12 July 2021. They said that Mrs L was 
covered for the actual value of her items at the date of loss. And that the settlement offered 
should allow her to replace her television on a like for like basis. They said that the true 
indemnity value of the television could be considered as what Mrs L could reasonably have 
hoped to obtain for the television had it been put up for sale on the day it was broken. They 
said theyd offered a settlement value of £250. And that theyd found the exact make and 
model of the television being sold online for £270. They said that the best they could do was 
to increase the settlement theyd proposed to £270 due to the example television theyd 
found on sale online, as they felt this was the best indication of the fair and reasonable 
indemnity value of the damaged television. 
Mrs L was disappointed with the revised offer. She didnt think it was professional to use 
online pricing to assess her claim. She said that the online price was for collection only. She 
also said that shed expected a depreciation-led approach to a like for like model.
AXA replied. They said they couldnt justify a higher figure than the £270 theyd offered. 
They said the insurance industry applies depreciation at the rate of 10% each year from the 
cost to replace as new. In Mrs Ls case, the cost of replacing with a new model was £769. As 
the damaged television was seven years old, applying depreciation as Mrs L had suggested 
resulted in a settlement figure of £230.70.
Mrs L replied to AXA. She said that the actual cost of replacing her old television with a new 
model on a like for like basis was £1,650, not £769. But that shed said £769 was the cost of 
a replacement model in her claim as she wouldve been comfortable to replace the broken 
television with a mid-range one, rather than the top of the range one shed had before. She 
felt that asking for a mid-range replacement from the start showed she was trying to reach a 
fair compromise. She also said that if the 10% depreciation each year was applied to £1,650, 
the settlement would be higher than AXA had offered. 
Unhappy, Mrs L brought her complaint to this service. She didnt think it was fair to use the 
online seller to establish the current value of the television. And because the only like for like 
television available online was collection only, she felt the settlement should take into 
account the travel costs shed incur if she bought it. She said this because shed found out 
that it wasnt possible to get a quote for couriering the television to her new address.
Our investigator felt that her complaint should be upheld. He felt the online price AXA had 
found might be unreliable as a guide as to the current value of the television. He said that 
Mrs L had said AXA had told her theyd only use the 10% annual depreciation method if the 
current market value of the television couldnt be found. He felt that as the online price 
couldnt be considered as reliable, he understood why she felt it would be fairer to use the 
10% depreciation method.
Our investigator also noted that AXA had in fact found the specific television for sale online. 
And that therefore they did have some idea of the televisions current value. He therefore 
agreed that using the online price would be a good starting point. However, given where Mrs 
L lived, he felt AXA should reconsider their settlement offer. He recommended that AXA took 
the online price of £270 as a starting point and then to include the travel expenses that Mrs L 
wouldve incurred if shed gone to collect the television listed online. 
Mrs L asked this service to ensure that the investigators proposed settlement included the 
full cost of travel, including the potential need for a hotel. 
AXA fundamentally disagreed with our investigator. They said that the policy had no 
guarantee that an exact replacement would be available, or that if one was available that it 
would be within easy reach of the claimant. So they didnt agree they should make an 
additional payment to meet the costs of travelling to purchase a replacement item. They said 
they were only liable for the actual cash value of the damaged television. And they 
considered that the value theyd found online was fair. They said they always did what they 
could to justify their offers. And that in this case they found the exact make and model of the 
broken television for sale. They said they werent sure what better way there was of arriving 
at a fair valuation. 
AXA said they couldnt apply depreciation from the cost of the television as Mrs L had 
suggested, but if they did, the settlement would be £230.70. I note that they incorrectly 
based this calculation on the cost of the mid-price replacement television Mrs L had claimed 
for, rather than the top end television she actually needed to replace. They said they 
researched the selling price of items online wherever possible so that they had some actual 
evidence of the correct settlement figure, which they felt led to a fair outcome. They said that 
simply applying 10% each year: is a rather blunt tool which we only use when we have no 
other option. AXA shared some further pricing research theyd carried out for what they said 
were similar televisions available online. Our investigator replied to AXA. He conducted his own research to try to value the broken 
television, but couldnt find anything. He said he didnt think it was fair to base the value of 
the television being claimed for on a single online listing of the exact model. He said that the 
new pricing research AXA had shared didnt reflect the quality of the broken television when 
new. He said Mrs L had told this service it had cost £1,650 when new. And that hed been 
able to confirm the original retail price of her television himself. Therefore he felt that the 
additional pricing information AXA had provided wasnt directly relevant. 
AXA responded. They said theyd only provided the online price of the replacement 
television as an example to demonstrate how theyd arrived at their valuation for the 
damaged television. They had never expected that this service would take that valuation as 
fair but then suggest that they also offered travel expenses. They said that the underwriters 
liability is the fair and reasonable value of the television, in cash terms. They also said that 
our investigator hadnt actually told them what they would need to pay Mrs L to settle the 
claim. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ls complaint came to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 April 2022. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion from our investigator. I dont consider his 
recommended redress is workable or fair. In particular, I dont agree that it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask AXA to include travel costs in their settlement figure. Instead, I consider 
that AXA should offer an increased settlement based on the average prices of the four 
similar used televisions theyve now found online. Ill explain why. 
The policy that covers Mrs Ls belongings while in transit is an indemnity policy. It doesnt 
provide cover on a new for old basis. So, Mrs Ls belongings are insured for the actual value 
of any items damaged or lost at the date the damage or loss occurs. This policy of insurance 
allows AXA to settle this claim in a number of ways. The terms and conditions allow AXA to 
either replace or repair an item or make a settlement payment instead taking into account 
the age, quality, degree of use and consequent market value of the item in question. Its up 
to AXA which method of settlement they choose. But they will have met their contractual 
obligations under the policy if they either replace, repair or make a market value offer for a 
damaged or lost item. 
Mrs L is unhappy with the settlement figure shes been offered by AXA to cover the broken 
television. Ive therefore thought carefully about whether AXA fairly calculated the settlement 
value of Mrs Ls claim. 
Although Ive seen evidence that AXA undertook online research to assess the value of the 
broken television, I dont consider that their research provided enough evidence to base their 
settlement on. I say this because Ive no evidence of what they based their original 
settlement offer of £250 on. And when AXA revised their offer after Mrs L complained they 
only found one television of the same make and model on an online selling site. So Im not 
satisfied that the research AXA undertook at the time they increased their offer to £270 was 
sufficient to enable them to determine a market value for the broken television. 
Mrs L felt that it would be fairer to use the 10% depreciation method to assess the settlement 
value. She didnt think that it was professional to use the online selling site to get that value. 
To some degree I agree with Mrs L here. I dont consider that it is fair to use the value of a 
single television as the settlement value. Im not satisfied that AXA could be confident that they valued the broken television fairly when they took the single online sale price theyd 
found to be the value. But I dont agree with Mrs L that it was unfair to use prices from online 
selling sites. I acknowledge AXAs point that use of online selling sites can be the fairest way 
to assess values. But Id expect AXA to find more than one online price and to take the 
average of those prices in order to demonstrate a fair valuation.
AXA have now found three further online prices of similar televisions to Mrs Ls broken one. 
From what I can see, two of these televisions were slightly lower specifications than Mrs Ls 
broken one, and one was slightly higher. I consider that it would be fair to base a settlement 
value on the average of four online prices. When the online prices of these televisions are 
averaged alongside the original television AXA referenced, the average price is £321. As 
these televisions are, on average, slightly lower specification than Mrs Ls broken television, 
I consider that a fair settlement would be £350. I agree with AXA that they shouldnt be 
required to make an additional payment to meet the costs of travelling to purchase a 
replacement item. Im satisfied that they are only liable for the actual cash value of the 
damaged television under the terms of the policy.
I acknowledge that Mrs L considers that the depreciation method would be fairer. I 
understand that if that were used, the settlement value would be £495. This is based on the 
following:
Cost of original television (£1,650) X (100% - 7 (years of depreciation) X 10%)
But I cant agree that this is the fairest method here. I say this because I agree with AXA that 
using the depreciation method is a somewhat blunt tool. And that where reasonable online 
prices can be found to support a settlement valuation, that it a fairer method. As AXA have, 
in the end, found four similar televisions for sale online, Im satisfied that they had no need to 
use the depreciation method here.
Overall, I intend to uphold this complaint, for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Putting things right
I intend to ask AXA to increase their settlement offer to £350.  
Response to my provisional decision
AXA said they had nothing further to add and accepted my decision.
Mrs L said she felt it was slightly unfair that AXA had been allowed to undertake further 
research to find more second-hand values for the damaged model six months after the 
claim. She questioned whether the market values had been affected by the televisions being 
a calendar year older than at the time of the claim. She also questioned whether the 
rounding up Id suggested (£321 to £350) was sufficient to cover the variance in 
specification. But said that she was happy to except my provisional decision if Id taken 
these points into consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm to Mrs L that I consider that the additional research AXA undertook was 
consistent with additional research I also carried out. Therefore while my proposed redress 
wasnt calculated scientifically, I was comfortable that it should allow Mrs L to appropriately replace her broken television.
Therefore no other new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of 
the view I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AXA must increase their settlement offer to £350.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to increase their settlement offer to Mrs L to £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman