DRN-3220623
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled their travel 
insurance claim. 
Mr C and Mrs C have brought this complaint together, but for ease of reading I will refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr C directly.
Any reference to Aviva includes those appointed to act on its behalf.
What happened
Both sides are aware of the background to this complaint, so the following is only a summary 
of what happened. 
Mr C and Mrs C have a travel insurance policy. It is underwritten by Aviva and available to 
them through their bank account.
In 2019 Mr C made a claim for medical assistance on the policy. He and Mrs C were on 
holiday in a country that Ill call D, when Mr C became unwell and was admitted into a local 
hospital twice where he was treated for pneumonia. Following his second admission the 
hospital declared Mr C as fit to fly and Aviva arranged his repatriation back to the UK. 
Mr C was admitted into a UK hospital at a later date where he was treated once again for 
pneumonia. 
Mr C complained about the treatment hed received whilst in D, the arrangements that had 
been made for his repatriation, and the overall service he had received from Aviva. In 
summary he said:
Aviva had been negligent by not getting him prompt medical treatment in D and had 
coerced him to get on a flight that was not suitable for his medical condition. Both of 
these, Mr C said, had a high probability of impacting his future health.
Aviva had demonstrated a lack of empathy and a lack of duty of care. 
There had been poor communication at critical events throughout the claim, and life 
and death decisions had been made by non-medical staff.  
To put things right Mr C wanted Aviva to reimburse the cost of his scheduled flight back to 
the UK, and pay the additional hotel costs that would have been incurred had he not taken 
its repatriation flight. Mr C also wanted Aviva to pay him a daily allowance for the time hed 
spent in the UK hospital, and he wanted Aviva to learn from what had happened too. 
Aviva said it had no influence or jurisdiction over the actions of the hospital in D and any 
concerns about Mr C not having been properly looked after there was a matter between him 
and that hospital. It said it had been entitled to rely on the information provided by both the 
hospital in D and Mr C in relation to his repatriation, and it said it had made arrangements 
correctly in line with that. Aviva accepted it could have provided a better level of 
communication at times however, and it offered £350 in compensation. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr C referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Aviva had repatriated Mr C in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. She said Mr C had been declared fit to fly by the treating hospital, and Aviva had 
validated this by phone with both the hospital and Mr C too. Our investigator agreed that 
Mr Cs concerns about the treatment he received at the hospital in D would need to be taken 
up with that facility directly, but she thought the compensation Aviva had offered was in line 
with, if not more than, what this service would have awarded. Our investigator also said that 
the UK costs Mr C was seeking were not something the policy covered and so, she did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and said Aviva had not provided true information. He said it had told him 
hed be medically looked after on the flight home and a fit to fly certificate did not mean that 
he was 100% fit. He said that when Aviva had spoken to the hospital in D, it had spoken to a 
doctor that had not seen him for 9 days prior to the fit to fly being issued, and it had 
pressured that doctor into advising Mr Cs blood oxygen levels were at an acceptable level. 
Mr C asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman and the matter was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided detailed submissions and I thank him for taking the time to do so. My 
findings will only comment on those matters that I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint, so if I do not mention something it is not because I have ignored it.  
I am sorry to hear about Mr Cs experience at the hospital in D. The standard of medical care 
does vary from country to country, and as I think both Aviva and our investigator correctly 
explained, the actions of the hospital in D is not something I can hold Aviva responsible for. 
If Mr C remains unhappy with the treatment he received at that hospital he will need to 
consider pursuing that matter with it directly. Aviva has told Mr C that he may have recourse 
to do this with support from the provisions the policy has for action against third parties, and I 
understand it has already provided the details of its legal helpline.
As an insurer, Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly. It should 
not reject them unreasonably either. While I note Mr Cs concerns about the decisions Aviva 
made, it is not for this service to decide if an insurers medical decision making was wrong. I 
would however expect an insurer to show that it had made a reasonable decision regarding 
repatriation, in all the circumstances and without the benefit of hindsight. 
The terms and conditions of the policy explain:
If you are injured or fall ill during your trip, our Medical Emergency Assistance provider may 
move you from one hospital to another and/or arrange for you to return home at any time. 
They will only do this if they and the treating doctor think that it is safe for you to be moved or 
returned home. 
Mr C disputes that Aviva did this. The hospital in D issued Aviva with a letter that confirmed Mr C was fit to fly. That letter 
summarised the reasons for Mr Cs admission and the treatment he had been discharged 
with. It also provided a summary of Mr Cs then current condition, and it recommended a 
medical re-assessment upon his return to the UK. 
I am aware that Mr C has specific issues with some of the information Aviva obtained from 
the hospital, for example his oxygen saturation levels, but I dont think it was unreasonable 
of Aviva to rely on what it had been provided with. The hospital had clearly set out, in writing, 
that Mr C was fit to fly. And in a later conversation with Aviva it provided further information 
about his health too, such as his oxygen saturation levels. 
The doctor Aviva spoke to confirmed they had been seeing Mr C and proceeded to provide 
information about his condition. I cant agree that Aviva pressured this doctor into providing 
that information, but again if Mr C remains unhappy with the information the doctor provided 
that is a matter for him to pursue with the hospital. 
Aside from the medical evidence that Aviva obtained, it also spoke to Mr C before 
repatriating him. Based on the content of those calls, in which Mr C reassured Aviva that he 
was well enough to get on a flight and was ready to come home, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Aviva to decide to repatriate him when those calls were considered 
alongside the fit to fly that had been provided too.  
Aviva has explained that Mr Cs case was managed by clinical nurses and doctors with at 
least 10 years experience in repatriation medicine. And I note that, for example, two 
particular calls to Mr C in relation to whether he was ready to be repatriated were made by 
nurses and reference in the first of them was made to Mr Cs circumstances being discussed 
by the teams doctors. 
I fully appreciate that when responding to Mr Cs later complaint about matters Aviva said it 
hadnt been aware of his oedema, but both parties are aware that was not correct. I am 
pleased Aviva acknowledged it had made an error there. And while I fully appreciate the 
error in Avivas correspondence would have been a cause of concern for Mr C, I cant see 
that the decisions Aviva actually made in relation to his repatriation were affected by this 
latter oversight.
Mr Cs has described how difficult he found his repatriation flight and I am of course sorry to 
hear about what he says happened. However, the medical evidence that Aviva was provided 
with did not stipulate that Mr C required a particular flight, such as an air ambulance or a 
flatbed seat on his return. The only requirement that the fit to fly letter gave in relation to 
Mr Cs return was that he should have a re-assessment once back in the UK. 
Aviva booked Mr C a flight in which he could elevate his legs, and also arranged for him to 
have assistance at the airport, for example a wheelchair and a lift to access the plane. 
Disappointingly it appears that lift was not available for Mr C when he arrived. But I dont 
think Avivas position on that is unreasonable; it has said it is unsure why some aspects of 
the flight were not fulfilled by the airline, and although that was regrettable it was not 
something it could have foreseen.
Again, I am mindful that I have summarised events in less detail than they may have been 
presented and have not addressed every argument made, but I think Aviva has shown that it 
made a reasonable decision regarding repatriation. 
As our investigator rightly explained, the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy set out that 
treatment after he has returned home is not covered. So as the UK costs Mr C is seeking are 
not something that he is eligible for, it would not be fair of me to direct Aviva to pay them. It would also be unfair of me to direct Aviva to pay for Mr Cs unused flight either. That is, the 
flight he was due to travel home on at the end of his holiday in D. A return flight to the UK 
was always a cost that Mr C would have incurred as a result of his holiday. And as travel 
insurance is not designed to better policyholders, if I were to direct Aviva to provide the costs 
of this flight Mr C would be in a better financial position than he would have been had he not 
made a claim. 
Mr C clearly feels very strongly about what has happened. Other than his testimony Ive not 
been provided with any contemporaneous evidence to corroborate that Avivas service 
failings at the time of his claim impacted his future health. That being said, I do appreciate 
how difficult and traumatic Mr C has said he found matters when he became unwell in D.
The very nature of falling unwell abroad can often be an upsetting and difficult experience. I 
accept that when this happened to Mr C he was in a foreign country, where many of the 
hospital staff did not speak English and the standard of care provided there was different to 
what he may have been used to in the UK. 
While I dont agree that Aviva demonstrated a lack of care, given the situation that Mr C 
found himself in I think its completely understandable that he may have wanted more 
proactive communication from Aviva at the time. I am aware that Aviva has already 
acknowledged it could have done more in relation to this too, and I think it was right to do so.
Compensation is not designed to be a punitive measure. It is intended to fairly and 
proportionately reflect the impact a businesss mistake has had on someone. Aviva has said 
it recognises more than just an apology is warranted in the circumstances of this complaint 
and has already offered £350 in compensation. Though I understand Mr C may not want to 
accept that amount, I too think the amount Aviva has awarded is in line, if not more, than this 
service would have awarded for its service failings. So Im not of the opinion that I can fairly 
award a higher amount. If Mr C wishes to accept Avivas offer, he should approach it directly 
if he has not already done so. 
Having weighed up all the evidence, on the balance of probabilities and without the benefit of 
hindsight, I think Avivas actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman