DRN-3026056
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax UK) (BoS) didnt do enough to 
protect him from falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2017 Mr B was sadly the victim of an investment scam. Believing at the time that the firm 
was genuine Mr B made four payments totalling around £42,000 to the scammers. Two of 
the payments were faster payment bank transfers and two were debit card payments. 
Mr B was then unable to make a withdrawal from his investment and the website hed been 
using later disappeared. He realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported this to BoS 
in March 2019. 
BoS said they were unable to raise a chargeback in relation to the debit card payments due 
to it being beyond the applicable time limits. They also contacted the beneficiary banks for 
the transfers, but they reported that no funds remained to be returned. Mr B complained, he 
feels BoS ought to have done more to protect him from falling victim to a scam. 
BoS didnt think theyd done anything wrong and the matter was referred to our service. One 
of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Overall, whilst he 
sympathised with Mr Bs significant loss, he thought BoS had acted fairly. Mr B disagrees 
and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made some detailed and specific submissions in relation to his complaint. I can 
quite understand his strength of feeling, particularly given the sums involved. I can confirm 
that Ive read and considered all hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
The Bank Transfers
It is accepted that Mr B authorised the two bank transfers (£10,000 in March 2017 and 
£25,000 in July 2017). As our investigator has pointed out, under the relevant regulations at 
the time, the payments were correctly executed by BoS as they went to the sort codes and 
account numbers provided. The regulations refer to these as the unique identifiers. There 
was no requirement to check that any reference or beneficiary name also provided matched 
the accounts to which the funds were being sent. 
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for BoS to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. BoS first obligation 
is to follow the instructions that Mr B provides. But if those instructions are sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect BoS to intervene and to ask their 
customer more about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also expect BoS to 
provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their customers make an informed 
decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There might also be cases where its 
appropriate for BoS to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it 
is being made as the result of a fraud or scam.
The starting point here is to consider whether the instructions Mr B gave BoS (either 
individually or collectively) were particularly unusual in relation to the typical account activity. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements going back to early 2016 to assess this. 
It wasnt unusual for large bank transfers to be made from Mr Bs account from time to time. 
There are several instances within that timeframe of genuine payments of similar amounts to 
those sent as a result of the scam. And even considering that the scam payments were to 
new payees (which isnt the case for comparable payments) I dont think that makes them 
sufficiently unusual to the point that Id have expected BoS to have intervened at the time. 
Each of the payments went to different accounts and they were several months apart, so I 
dont think there was any pattern here either that I could reasonably have expected BoS to 
have identified. 
Overall, I dont think BoS were wrong to not intervene in the payments before processing 
them. Im also satisfied that when informed of the issue with these payments that BoS acted 
promptly to attempt their recovery. I dont think BoS are responsible for any errors which 
prevented the recovery of any of Mr Bs funds. It is sadly a common feature of these scams 
that the funds are quickly moved on by the scammers from the beneficiary accounts. 
The Debit Card Payments
The two debit card payments were one for £5,000 on 31 January 2017 and the other for 
£2,000 on 12 July 2017. For completeness I also dont think either of these payments ought 
to have prompted any intervention by BoS prior to being processed. BoS also arent 
responsible for vetting merchants that accept card payments. 
The only route available to BoS to seek recovery of these payments was the card providers 
(Visa in this case) chargeback scheme. But there are time limits which apply, the absolute 
latest of which is that a dispute must be raised within 540 days of the date of each 
transaction. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr B didnt have knowledge and so wasnt able to raise his claim sooner, 
the facts are that this was reported to BoS in 2019, after the expiry of the relevant 
chargeback deadline. 
I wouldnt expect a bank to raise a chargeback where there isnt a reasonable chance of it 
succeeding. And the claim being outside of the time limits means I dont think BoS acted 
unreasonably when not pursuing this further. 
SummaryIm sorry to hear that Mr B lost such a significant amount to cruel scammers. But it would 
only be fair for me to tell BoS to reimburse his loss if I thought they were responsible for 
failings that either caused it or prevented its recovery. I dont think they are and so Im not 
going to tell them to do more to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman