DRN-1829906
The complaint
Mr O, as a director of T, a limited company complains that Squareup Europe Ltd delayed 
processing a payment taken via its payment handling service.
What happened
On 4 June 2019, T took a payment of £4,1500 from a customer using the Squareup card 
processing system which appeared to process normally. Several days later Squareup asked 
for invoices and bank statements, which were provided.
On 7 June 2019, Squareup put a hold on the funds, and Mr O says he told him the money 
wouldnt be released until 5 October 2019. He complained, but says Squareup wouldnt 
explain why it had taken this decision. In September 2019, he sent an email asking for the 
funds to be released. Apparently Squareup said it would be holding the money due to 
chargeback claims, but there were no chargeback claims. The funds were eventually 
released on 4 December 2019.
Mr O has said the business had to rely on an overdraft for working capital while the funds 
were awaited. Squareup rejected Mr Os complaint and so he brought the matter to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She obtained further information from the business which said that it had operated within its 
terms and conditions. It said that after an initial small test payment a larger sum was 
processed and it sought further information from T. It says it was unable to verify the 
transaction and the account and so a hold was put on the funds for 120 days in accordance 
with sections 12, 14 and 38 of its payment terms.
It added that it had concerns about Ts ability address any potential chargeback. A further 
review was carried out and additional checks were deemed appropriate. This meant an extra 
60 day freeze while further approval was obtained. This was completed on 14 October and 
the funds were released at the end of the 180 day freeze period. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators conclusions and said there was a statutory 
requirement for Squareup to treat its customers fairly. He felt it had given fake reasons to 
delay the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
I can understand that Mr O feels he was deprived of money which was due to T unfairly. But 
Squareup has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening 
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity 
taking place on them. If Squareup didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction. 
These requirements can impinge on the obligation to treat customers fairly and Squareup 
has a balance to strike in meeting its legal and regulatory obligations and processing 
payments without delay. In this case I am satisfied it took reasonable decisions in line with 
those obligations. 
As such I am satisfied Squareup was entitled to ask for the information it did and to hold 
funds while the matter was properly reviewed. This was also in line with the account terms 
and conditions. I understand this may have been distressing to Mr O and have caused T 
some financial difficulties, but having considered all the information available to me, I can 
understand why Squareup wanted to review the account and ask the questions it did.
Squareup is entitled to hold the funds in the account to cover any potential chargeback 
claims and it did so in accordance with the terms and conditions. I appreciate Mr O believes 
the withholding was in relation to known potential chargebacks, but I gather it was due to 
broad concerns. Squareup does allow for the possibility payments being refunded back to 
the cardholders and it is entitled to take a cautious approach where it deems appropriate.
I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, but although the delays caused T 
some financial challenges and frustration, I cant say Squareup made any mistakes that 
mean it should compensate T for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman