DRN-3938720
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice The Tavistock Partnership Limited (Tavistock) gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. Hes concerned the advice may not 
have been suitable for him and might have caused a financial loss.
It was Tavistocks appointed representative, rather than Tavistock itself, which gave Mr P 
advice. But, as Tavistock is responsible for the appointed representatives actions I will refer 
to it throughout this decision.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, paying 
compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels 
are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In August 2017 Mr P approached Tavistock for advice about his pension. He completed an 
online questionnaire concerning his attitude to risk. Tavistock assessed his risk tolerance as 
at the low end of moderate to adventurous. 
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr P with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £297,765.
Mr P had an initial meeting with Tavistock on 25 September 2017. The following day it 
emailed him a request for information. It also asked him to complete a fact-find 
questionnaire. He returned the completed information on 12 October 2017. Amongst other 
things Mr P recorded that he was 53 years old and married to Mrs P, who was 50 years old. 
They were both working and earning £31,500 and £32,000 a year respectively. Both hoped 
to retire at age 55. They had one non-dependent adult son. Mrs P was entitled to her own 
DB pension from age 55. They had cash and other savings totalling around £190,000. They 
owned their own home outright. They were paying finance on a car and credit card debts at 
£600 a month. They had a second investment property valued at £120,000. Mr P had also 
begun paying into his employers recently set up defined contribution (DC) pension.. 
Around that time in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter 
which gave them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. Mr P passed a copy to Tavistock.
In November 2017 Tavistock obtained a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). Amongst 
other things it set out the growth rates required to match the benefits from the BSPS2 and 
the PPF (the critical yields). Tavistock also ran some cashflow models looking at how Mr P 
could take income from a personal pension plan by way of draw down. Tavistock sent Mr P 
an Occupational Defined Benefit Pension Transfer and Recommendation Report setting out 
its analysis and recommendations. Such documents are generally referred to as suitability 
reports and thats the term Ill use in this decision.
Tavistock recommended Mr P should transfer his DB scheme funds to a named personal 
pension. Amongst other things Tavistock noted that the critical yields could not be reached 
at age 55. It added:
Should the required Critical Yield not be met then it is likely that you will receive a lower 
income in retirement than if benefits had been retained with the existing scheme On a 
standalone basis, transfer would not be appropriate if priority was to increase income[sic].
In brief, Tavistock recommended the transfer because it would allow Mr P:
the opportunity of better pension benefits and perhaps, greater flexibility in retirement.
Mr P accepted Tavistocks recommendation and transferred his DB funds to the named 
personal pension.
In 2022 Mr P complained to Tavistock that its advice might not have been suitable for him. 
Tavistock didnt uphold his complaint as it believed the advice was suitable. It added that he 
was determined to transfer regardless of its advice. 
Mr P asked us to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into it. She didnt 
think Tavistocks advice was suitable for Mr P. She recommended his complaint be upheld. 
In short she didnt think Mr P would be better off by transferring and she didnt think 
Tavistocks cashflow models were realistic. She noted that Mr P had since retired at age 57. 
And, given his desire for early retirement, she believed that Tavistock should have advised 
Mr P to remain in the DB scheme and allow his benefits to transfer to the PPF. She said 
Tavistock should establish if Mr P had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable 
advice and if so pay him compensation.
Tavistock asked for the complaint to be referred for an Ombudsmans review. But, despite 
prompting to do so, it didnt give any specific reason for disagreeing with our Investigators 
opinion. 
The complaint was subsequently referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistocks actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tavistock 
should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was 
in Mr Ps best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
My findings 
Tavistock obtained a TVAS report which showed the relevant critical yields to match the 
benefits from the BSPS2 and the PPF. It did so for several scenarios including if Mr P took 
early retirement at age 55. The lowest critical yield for Mr P taking pension benefits at age 55 
was 29.07%. Tavistock concluded that transferring to a personal pension could not meet the 
required critical yield at age 55. It said, on that basis Mr P would likely have a lower income 
in retirement. It added that, on a standalone basis if the reason for the transfer was to 
increase income it would not be appropriate. 
In other words Tavistock recognised that transferring would most likely mean Mr P would be 
worse off in retirement by doing so. I agree with Tavistock's analysis here. But I dont think it 
did enough to make it clear to Mr P that he was, most likely, making himself poorer in 
retirement by transferring.
Tavistock noted that Mr P would prefer to keep his withdrawals from a personal pension 
below his tax threshold. It said he only wanted to draw an income £11,500 a year. 
Tavistocks cashflow models showed that if Mr P and his wife had total expenditure of 
£15,720 a year, Mr P could comfortably drawdown £11,500 a year from age 55 and still have 
funds remaining in his personal pension beyond his life expectancy. But I dont think 
Tavistocks cashflow models were likely to be representative of Mr P's actual circumstances 
in retirement. 
The information Tavistock gathered about Mr Ps circumstances included an assessment of 
his households regular outgoings. That showed Mr and Mrs P had regular outgoings of 
£2,735 a month. That figure included repayments of finance at £600 a month, which Mr P might have anticipated repaying before age 55. But that would have only reduced their joint 
expenditure to £2,135 a month. That is equivalent to £25,620 a year (net). So it's not clear 
why Tavistock's cashflow models assumed that Mr and Mrs Ps expenditure would only be 
61% of that figure. 
Further, using the same expenditure level of £15,720, another of Tavistocks cashflow 
models shows, after allowing for income from others sources, Mr and Mrs P could 
comfortably manage their expenditure with Mr P remaining in the DB scheme. And given his 
other savings he had no need to transfer in order to be able to afford to retire early. But by 
doing so he was putting his otherwise safeguarded DB scheme pension income at 
unnecessary risk. I dont think that was in his best interests. 
While acknowledging that transferring might mean that Mr P would most likely be worse off 
in retirement, Tavistock said that doing so gave him flexibility. Its true to say that Mr P 
couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his DB funds as he could from a 
personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those early, if hed wanted to take a 
tax free cash (TFC) lump sum, then he would have had to take that at the same time as 
drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him 
to draw down funds as he saw fit. Its also the case that Mr P could have taken 25% of his 
entire personal pension fund as TFC whereas the DB schemes have stricter rules about how 
much can be taken as a lump sum. But, if Mr P was insistent that he wanted flexible access 
to funds then he already had liquid assets that he could access in a flexible manner. 
Mr and Mrs P had savings of around £190,000. And, if hed chosen to take TFC then, 
assuming he took benefits from the PPF, he could have added a further lump sum to those 
savings of around £51,200 at age 55. That would have boosted their liquid assets to around 
£241,000. So, while I can see why a higher TFC sum and more choice over how much to 
take and when might have been an attractive prospect to Mr P, if he wanted to access funds 
flexibly he could have done so from his savings.
It follows that Im satisfied Mr P could have met his flexible income needs in retirement while 
remaining in the DB environment. In any event, there's nothing on file which indicates that 
Mr P had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement. 
I'm aware that Mr P wanted to access his funds In a tax efficient manner. However, initially 
at least, if Mr P took retirement income from the PPF at age 55 then his yearly income would 
be below his tax threshold. So he wouldn't have been paying any additional tax by remaining 
in the scheme and moving to the PPF. 
Further, its likely that eventually Mr Ps income would go beyond his tax threshold and he 
would have to pay tax, particularly after his state pension became payable at age 67. But, 
that would also be the case if he took income by drawdown, as his state pension would 
attract income tax. So transferring might not have given him the tax efficiency he was looking 
for.
Also, even if remaining in the DB scheme would mean that Mr P paid more in tax than 
transferring to a personal pension, that would only be the case because his income was 
higher from the DB scheme than by transferring. In other words he would have more money 
to spend, save or enjoy as he chose by remaining in the scheme. In contrast reducing the 
amount he drew down from his personal pension to avoid paying tax might mean the 
Exchequer didn't benefit so much but neither would Mr P. He would simply have less to 
spend by doing so. 
So, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he had no obvious need for.Tavistock also said Mr P wanted his family to have access to his full pension fund, rather 
than a fixed income, in the event of his death, which he could achieve by transferring. But 
Tavistocks priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension that would have paid 
Mrs P 50% of his yearly pension entitlement. That could have been valuable to her in the 
event of Mr Ps death.
While I have little doubt the CETV figure would have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. As 
well as being dependent on investment performance any sum remaining as a death benefit 
would have been reduced by any income Mr P drew from his personal pension in his 
lifetime. So it may not have provided the legacy he may have thought it would. And there 
may not have been much left in his personal pension if he lived a long life, the investments 
performed poorly, or if he took large sums from the fund early in his retirement.
Further, if Mr P wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life insurance may 
have met his needs.
Ive noted Tavistock looked into the cost of life insurance. Its suitability report said the 
premiums for Mr P would be around £305 a month. So it didnt think that was viable on 
grounds of cost. But I dont think Tavistock presented this option in a balanced way. 
Tavistock based the quote on the full transfer value of Mr Ps DB scheme, £297,765. In other 
words it essentially assumed hed require a life policy to pay the same as his CETV (before 
drawing down any sums from it). But unless he died almost immediately after transferring, 
that figure wouldn't be realistic as a likely legacy.
Ultimately, Mr P wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which could 
be a lot less than his CETV depending on how much he drew from it and the investment 
performance. So a fairer manner in which to provide Mr P with realistic life insurance options 
would have been for Tavistock to ask him how much he would ideally like to leave as a 
legacy, and how much he could afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be 
a lot cheaper to provide and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his 
retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And ultimately Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
I've noted that in response to his complaint Tavistock said that Mr P would have insisted on 
transferring regardless of its advice. But it's not clear from the evidence on file how it arrived 
at that conclusion. 
I dont doubt Mr P, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general mistrust and lack of optimism regarding the likelihood of a solution. I 
also dont doubt Mr P was worried about the prospect of his pension moving to the PPF. And 
it's quite possible hed heard negative things about it. 
So, perhaps, Mr P was leaning towards the decision to transfer when he asked Tavistock for 
advice. But that is why it was even more important for Tavistock to give Mr P an objective 
picture and recommend what was in his best interests.A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But, while I understand that 
the prospect of pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting, its 
probably the case that it wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it to 
be. And, for those like Mr P who were planning on taking early retirement, the benefits from 
the PPF were more generous than those from the BSPS2. In fact, in Mr Ps case the benefits 
from the PPF for TFC and a reduced pension were over 12% higher at age 55 than they 
were from the BSPS2. So, rather than facing a 10% reduction Mr P was actually looking at a 
pension increase by moving to the PPF. So, I think a move to the PPF was most likely in 
Mr Ps best interests, rather than it being something so concerning that it justified a transfer. 
Further, other than his employers recently set up DC pension, Mr P had no experience of 
the investment markets. And, by transferring to a personal pension he was unnecessarily 
putting his pension funds at risk. Mr Ps BSPS pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision. He was an inexperienced investor who had no need to put his pension 
funds at risk and he engaged Tavistock for its expertise. So, if Tavistock had given clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted the expert professional advice he had sought out.
It follows that I don't think Tavistocks advice to Mr P to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. Instead I think it should have advised him to allow his DB funds to move to 
the PPF. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from Tavistock 
was unsuitable for him. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tavistock to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF to 
join the BSPS2 if Tavistock had given suitable advice. 
Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to C and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Tavistock based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
Mr P has confirmed he retired at age 57 and began drawing an income then. So 
compensation should be based on retirement at age 57.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr P 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Tavistock's offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15%/overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
The Tavistock Partnership Limited pays Mr P the balance. 
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman