DRN-1968592
The complaint
Mrs P complains that NewDay Ltd has rejected her claim under section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs P purchased an annual swim membership at a leisure centre using a 
credit card she had with NewDay Ltd. 
Mrs P says that she had also purchased and attended a set of swimming lessons which had 
assisted her with both her technique and confidence in the water. She says her teacher told 
her she was a confident swimmer and they encouraged her to swim in the deep end of the 
pool on completing her lessons.
In April 2019, while attending a particular swim session, Mrs P says she was approached by 
a lifeguard and asked to undertake a swim test by swimming a full length of the pool and 
treading water for 30 seconds. She says the lifeguard told her that, not only must she 
perform this test at that time, but that she must be able to repeat it any time of asking. They 
also said that if she struggled to swim a length then she would be restricted to using the 
shallow end.
Mrs P says that, as a new swimmer, she was concerned she wouldnt be able to repeat the 
test as and when required, but also didnt think her swimming had raised any health and 
safety concerns. She was practising her strokes and had been well aware of other 
swimmers. Mrs P says shed never seen anyone else asked to undertake this test. She felt 
the test was unfair and would prevent her from further improving her swimming ability. Mrs P 
says she challenged the lifeguard to show her the rule that a swim test was necessary to use 
the deep end. She says he was unable to do so. She decided to leave the pool and not 
undertake the test.
Mrs P complained to the leisure centre that the requirement for her to pass a swim test to 
use the deep end hadnt been provided to her in any terms or conditions, nor was it 
displayed at the pool. She said she wouldnt have taken out the swim membership if shed 
known there was a rule about undertaking a swim test, as and when required, to use the 
deep end. 
Mrs P didnt get a reply from the leisure centre and so decided to make a claim for a pro rata 
reimbursement of the fee shed paid to join the pool under S75. She made her claim to 
NewDay.
NewDay rejected Mrs Ps claim. It said that the leisure centre hadnt breached the contract 
she had with it for use of the pool, and that Mrs Ps complaint related to an isolated incident 
that had occurred while she had been at the pool. NewDay said that at this particular session 
the normal operating procedure which applied was that swimmers must be over 16 years old 
and able to swim 100m (a length was 25m). 
NewDay said that in the interests of health and safety the pool area was the responsibility of 
the lifeguard, and they needed to be confident that a swimmer met certain swimming criteria 
for their own safety. Once this had been clarified then a note could be added to the 
swimmers account that they met the necessary requirement. If the lifeguard considered a 
swimmer was not confident in the water, then it was for the lifeguard to decide whether the 
swimmer could complete the session. This was why swimmers may be asked to 
demonstrate they can swim 25m if this ability wasnt evident to the lifeguard. There were 
also alternative sessions available where there were more lifeguards present which Mrs P 
could access.
Mrs P disagreed with the view taken by NewDay and complained to this service. She said 
that when she had taken out the contract to use the pool, she had been told by a lifeguard 
she could use the deep end after swimming a length. No qualifications or specifications were 
made known to her. The leisure centre had misrepresented its swimming policy inducing her 
to enter into the contract.
Mrs P also says that the leisure centre misrepresented the particular session she had 
attended as this had been advertised as being for swimmers of all levels. She had later 
been informed there was a need for the swim test and, had she known of that at the start, 
she wouldnt have taken out the pool membership.
Mrs P says she believes the leisure centre had breached her contract by adding restrictions 
to her use and enjoyment of the pool that were not in the original contract. She did not 
receive the service described and advertised. Mrs P says she was not informed of any 
restrictions, or the need to take any swim test, before being able to make full use of the pool. 
On the day in question she had been asked to leave the deep end and walk back to the 
shallow end by the lifeguard, and they had also said they wouldnt let her use the deep end 
in future and would require her to undertake the swim test if they saw her there. Mrs P said 
the actions of the lifeguard had stopped her using pool membership. This had only been an 
isolated incident because she hadnt returned to the pool.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
sorry that Mrs P had felt intimidated and upset by the actions of the lifeguard, but his role 
was to look at the decision of NewDay and its obligations under S75. He couldnt look at 
complaints about staff at the leisure centre.
Our investigator said there werent any specific health and safety laws for swimming pools, 
but swimming pool operators must comply with their general duties under Health and Safety 
at Work and associated regulations. Operators are obliged to make suitable and sufficient 
assessment of the health and safety risk to workers and users to help decide what they must 
do to make their pool safe.
The investigator said he could understand why the lifeguard had asked Mrs P to 
demonstrate she could swim a full length. Mrs P had said she would practice her swimming 
by stopping mid length before carrying on and he thought it would be reasonable for a 
lifeguard to want to ensure users of the deep end were sufficiently confident in their 
swimming.
Our investigator said that Mrs P hadnt been able to provide the terms and conditions of her 
membership but, looking at these and the lists of benefits of membership that were displayed 
on the leisure centres website, there was no mention of using the deep end as part of the 
swim membership. It stated that membership included access to the pool and therefore he 
didnt think there had been a breach of the contract.Our investigator said he didnt know what had been said to Mrs P at the time she took out 
the agreement, but he didnt think that she joined the pool because shed been told she 
could use the deep end after swimming a length.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view. She said she had swum a length a number of 
times as part of her swimming lessons and had told the lifeguard this. His response had 
been that he didnt have any health and safety concerns but had time on his hands. She 
said there were no health and safety concerns at the time and the swim test doesnt exist.
Mrs P said that she hadnt been given any paperwork when she joined, and she hadnt been 
told that parts of the pool couldnt be used. Shed been told during her lessons that the full 
pool was for use of swimmers completing a swimming course. And so, it was quite 
reasonable for her to assume she could use the full pool when she had completed the 
lessons. At no point had she been told membership could be restricted to the shallow end 
only.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim a refund against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of 
credit, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. My role is 
to decide whether NewDay handled Mrs Ps section 75 claim fairly and reasonably.  
Mrs P decided to take out an annual membership for the pool, and pay for a set of swimming 
lessons, to improve her ability in the water. Its agreed there was no paperwork provided to 
Mrs P at the time she took out this membership. The terms and conditions, together with a 
list of the benefits of membership, are however shown on the leisure centres website. 
Looking at these I think its reasonable to say that the contract was for access to and use of 
the pool. 
Mrs P says that her membership agreement has been breached by the requirement to take a 
swim test before being able to use the deep end, and also that the membership agreement 
was misrepresented to her.
Looking firstly as to whether there was a breach of contract, Ive seen the agreement is for 
use of the pool. Mrs P says that the requirement she undertakes a swim test, as and when 
required, prevents her from being able to use all of the pool, and so is a breach of this term 
and condition. However, I think its reasonable to expect that any use of the pool must be 
subject to health and safety requirements and Ive seen Mrs P agrees with that. There will be 
times when full use of the pool may have to be restricted for certain swimmers. For instance, 
the number of lifeguards on duty will impact on any health and safety risk assessment 
carried out as to who can use the pool and, in the particular, the deep end. I also think its 
reasonable for a decision as to the health and safety of the swimmers, at a particular pool 
session, to be a matter for the lifeguard on duty at the time. So, it wouldnt be unreasonable 
for a lifeguard to be able to ask a swimmer to demonstrate they could swim a length, and 
tread water for a short time, in order for that swimmer to then use the deep end safely.
As set out by our investigator, there are no national health and safety standards for 
swimming pools, and it is for the pool operators to ensure the pool is safe for use by workers 
and swimmers on the day. I appreciate Mrs P says there is no such thing as a swim test, but I wouldnt expect there to be a universally used swim test to establish whether a swimmer 
was or wasnt sufficiently competent to use the deep end of any pool. I think its reasonable 
that what would be required, to show competence in the water, will vary from pool to pool, 
the session being run and the number of staff on duty.
Im sorry Mrs P was upset by the actions and comments of the lifeguard on the day, but Ive 
seen they werent refusing to allow Mrs P to swim, they wanted to check her competence in 
the water. I appreciate Mrs P disagreed with the view taken by this particular lifeguard and 
felt singled out and intimidated but, even if the lifeguard had acted unfairly in making this 
request, I dont think that means there was a breach of contract to access and use the pool. I 
think any complaint about the behaviour of a lifeguard would be a matter for the leisure 
centre to investigate. 
Mrs P has not returned to the pool after this incident, and although I can understand why that 
was her choice. I dont think there is enough evidence to say Mrs Ps use of the pool was so 
restricted by the leisure centre that it amounted to a breach of the contract she had with it to 
use the pool. Despite the request from lifeguard, Mrs P was still able to access the pool and 
attend sessions. Looking at the evidence, I think it was fair for NewDay to consider that this 
was not a breach of the contract. 
Mrs P also says that the agreement was misrepresented to her as she had been advised by 
a lifeguard that if she could swim a length, she could use the deep end. She says she was 
never told that there were other rules that could be applied and, if she had been told about 
the swim test, she wouldnt have joined. Looking at this part of Mrs Ps complaint, for 
NewDay to have found thered  been a misrepresentation, it would have needed to be 
satisfied that at the time Mrs P took out the membership she had probably been told 
something  by the leisure  centre  that wasn't true, and that untrue statement on its own 
induced her to take out this agreement.
Here, Mrs P took out the pool membership at the same time as she arranged swimming 
lessons. I think its reasonable to say she wanted the swim membership so she could access 
the pool and improve her swimming. She says she was advised if she could swim a length, 
she could use the deep end. The lifeguard on the day in question asked her to demonstrate 
that, so I dont think whats been said about when you could use the deep end was untrue. I 
also dont think that Mrs P would have been induced solely by the statement regarding 
swimming one length and using the deep end to take out the membership.
I think NewDay has acted fairly in considering Mrs Ps claim. It investigated the matter and 
reached a reasonable conclusion that there had not been a breach of contract and, despite 
being asked to do the swim test, she was still able to access the pool. So, I think it was 
reasonable for NewDay to conclude that Mrs Ps contract to use the pool had not been 
breached, and nor had it been misrepresented at the time she took it out.
So, for the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs P complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman