DRN-2291287
The complaint
Miss C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in one of the banks branches in 1995. The
policy was taken out at the same time as Miss C applied for a credit card. It gave her 
accident, sickness and unemployment and unemployment protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Barclaycard cant provide a copy of Miss Cs policy, so Ive relied on one from the nearest 
available date. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss C says she would have used the PPI if she knew she had it. Her credit card application 
form set out the options to select or decline PPI with equal prominence. Miss C indicated 
that she wanted it. So, I think Barclays made it clear to Miss C that PPI was optional, and 
she chose to take it. I can understand she might not remember this given how long ago the 
sale was.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss C, so it had to check if it was suitable for her. Based 
on what I know of her circumstances at the time I think it was. Miss C told us she wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for all successful accident and 
sickness for up to 12 months. It also gave Miss C up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Miss C if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Barclays didnt give Miss C all the information about the PPI that she needed
before she made her decision. But Miss C chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the likely exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and apparently 
affordable. On balance, I think it unlikely Miss C wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C. But
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Miss C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss C. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman