DRN-2945627
The complaint
Miss T complains about the settlement Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited offered her 
after a claim made on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Miss T bought a car privately for £3,800 and two weeks later she crashed into a wall, hurting 
herself. The police attended and took her insurance details and recovered the car. Miss T 
said they told her they would contact her insurer. 
Accredited Insurances agent said it only became aware of the accident four months later 
when the owner of the wall made a claim. It contacted Miss T and she made a claim three 
weeks later. Her car was still in the previous owners name. And so Accredited Insurance 
couldnt get details of it from the police. It said it couldnt recover the salvage costs or 
determine the cars total loss value. It offered Miss T an estimated total loss value of £912 
less the £600 policy excess and the outstanding premium. Miss T was unhappy with this.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss Ts 
actions hadnt led to the loss of the salvage. He thought the polices decision to scrap the car 
was beyond Miss Ts control. He thought the car wouldnt have had any salvage value. So 
he thought Accredited Insurance should pay Miss T the cars full value at the time of the 
accident less the policy excess and any outstanding premiums. 
Accredited Insurance replied that it would be looking to make payment less the policy excess 
and the estimated salvage. It said the salvage value was based on a percentage of the cars 
value and wasnt related to it being roadworthy. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss T 
and to Accredited Insurance on 22 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
Accredited Insurance raised concerns about the cars ownership as the cars registration 
hadnt been transferred after Miss T bought it. But I could see from its file notes that it 
confirmed with the previous owner that Miss T had bought the car for cash, as shed stated. 
And he confirmed that hed provided the hand-written receipt on his headed note paper. It 
also accepted that Miss T had the V5 registration document with her but hadnt yet sent it off. 
So I thought Accredited Insurance had accepted that Miss T was the cars owner and that it 
should indemnify her for its loss.
Accredited Insurances settlement letter to Miss T required her to repay the full premium for 
her policy year. From what I could see, Miss T received a refund when she cancelled her 
policy following the accident. 
When a claim is paid, the policy has been used and the full years premium is due. So I 
thought it was fair and reasonable for Accredited Insurance to require this to be paid.
Accredited Insurance also required Miss T to pay her policy excess of £600. The excess is 
always the first part of a claim to be paid, and so I couldnt say that this was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Accredited Insurance offered Miss T the cars estimated salvage value in settlement of her 
claim, less the above deductions. But I didnt think this would be fair or reasonable. Looking 
at its file notes, I thought its agent initially decided to pay Miss T a settlement for the cars 
pre-accident value, but to deduct the salvage value from this settlement. I thought this 
decision was then lost in its email trails and so it ended up offering Miss T just the estimated 
salvage value. 
I thought this was an error. So what I considered was whether Accredited Insurances 
valuation of Miss Ts car was fair and reasonable and whether it was fair for it to deduct 
salvage from this settlement. 
This services approach to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations for cars but look 
to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
But I couldnt see that Accredited Insurance valued Miss Ts car according to our approach. 
Instead it seemed to have accepted that its value was what shed paid for it two weeks 
before the accident. This was £3,800. I didnt see any further valuations made according to 
our approach. Miss T had bought the car for this price just two weeks earlier, so I thought it 
was arguably its market value. So I couldnt say that this was an unfair or unreasonable 
valuation of the cars pre-accident value. 
Accredited Insurance thought Miss Ts actions stopped it from recovering the salvage. And it 
applied a deduction to the settlement for this reason. But I didnt think this was a fair or 
reasonable reason for it to deduct the salvage value from Miss Ts settlement for the 
following reasons:
1. I thought the policy required Miss T to report accidents and claims to Accredited 
Insurance. But I thought Miss T was relying, mistakenly due to her ignorance, on the 
police to contact her insurer when she was taken to hospital following the accident. I 
thought this was an honest mistake made by Miss T.
2. I thought the car was still in the previous owners name as Miss T hadnt yet sent off the 
change of ownership to DVLA. So the police contacted the previous owner, not Miss T. 
And so she didnt know they planned to scrap her car and so I thought this was outside 
her control.
3. The police scrapped the car before any claim was made by the owner of the wall. 
Accredited Insurance didnt act on this claim until reminded of it three months later. So I 
thought Accredited Insurance was also responsible for delays in the claim. 
4. The car had extensive damage and the air bags had been deployed. So I thought it was 
unlikely that the car was roadworthy. Accredited Insurance wasnt able to assess the 
damage to the car. So I thought it couldnt fairly decide how much of the settlement to 
deduct for the salvage value. 
Subject to any further representations by Miss T or Accredited Insurance, my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
I intended to require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to pay Miss T the cars pre-
accident valuation of £3,800 less the policy excess and the outstanding premiums in 
settlement of her claim. And, because Miss T had been without her settlement for some time, I intended to require it to add interest to this settlement at the rate of 8% per annum 
from the date of the claim until the date of settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T said she accepted my provisional decision. Accredited Insurance didnt provide any 
further representations for me to consider. So I can see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. 
 
Putting things right
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Miss T the cars pre-accident valuation of £3,800 less the policy excess and the 
outstanding premiums in settlement of her claim, adding interest to this settlement at the 
rate of 8% per annum from the date of the claim until the date of settlement. 
2. HM Revenue & Customs requires Accredited Insurance to take off tax from this interest. 
Accredited Insurance must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman