DRN-2403931
The complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs C, which is represented by a 
solicitor, Ms H. She submits that Vitality Life Limited has unreasonably refused a life 
assurance claim made by Mr C.
What happened
Mrs C applied for a VitalityLife Essentials policy after receiving a telephone sales call from a 
third party broker on 17 May 2018. Her policy offered level life cover of £30,418 for a 30 year 
term. 
Vitality wrote to Mrs C the same day to say the policy had been accepted. The broker sent 
Mrs C a copy of her application to check the following day along with confirmation that the 
application had been accepted. 
Mr C made a claim to Vitality as Mrs C had sadly passed away in July 2018 after suffering 
from a type of brain cancer.  
After obtaining further medical evidence, Vitality declined the claim. It issued a letter to Mr C 
in December 2018 in which it said it had discovered that Mrs C didnt disclose her full 
medical history within her policy application. It wasnt able to set out the exact details of the 
medical evidence because of confidentiality reasons, but it told Mr C to contact the late Mrs 
Cs GP to verify her circumstances. 
Vitality said that the information Mrs C hadnt disclosed would have affected its underwriting 
decision. Consequently, it would not have been able to offer her insurance at all.  
In December 2019, Ms H submitted a complaint to Vitality on behalf of Mr C and the estate 
of the late Mrs C. She said Mr C had now been able to review the medical records and he 
disagreed with Vitalitys decision. 
At the time of the application, Mrs C had no knowledge that she had any previous condition 
which would have affected Vitalitys decision to offer her insurance. The gynaecology and 
neurology referrals she had thereafter came once the policy was on risk. Ms H said she 
could not therefore understand why the claim hadnt been paid.  
Vitality replied in February 2020. It said it had considered Ms Hs comments, but its decision 
remained unchanged. Ms H therefore brought the estates complaint to this service.  
Vitality confirmed that Mrs C hadnt told it about a number of matters on the policy 
application. In summary, these were that she had a number of issues dating back to 2016 
(including a benign breast lesion, issues with her foot, and some neurological and 
gynaecological symptoms).  However, more recently it noted that Mrs C had a change in her 
behaviour and memory loss, a 10-day history of urinary issues dating back from 21 May 
2018 and a month long history of sudden and intrusive headaches dating back from 24 May 
2018.     
It said that if it had known about these issues, it would have needed a GP report. And, 
having obtained a report it would have either known the outcome of Mrs Cs diagnosis on 31 
May 2018 or awaited the outcome of that appointment with neurology and learned of the 
same information. Unfortunately, upon diagnosis, the offer of insurance would have been 
declined.  
Our investigator did not think the complaint ought to succeed. He said he disagreed that Mrs 
C had correctly answered no to certain questions on her policy application, as had been put 
forward by Ms H. He felt the medical evidence showed that Mrs C had symptoms at the time 
of completing the policy application, and Vitality ought to have been told about this. 
Therefore, Mrs C ought to have answered at least two questions on the application 
positively. 
He also said that had Mrs C answered the questions correctly, Vitality wouldve had to 
investigate further. In his view, this investigation wouldve taken more than 14 days from 
when the application was submitted, by which time Mrs C had been diagnosed with her type 
of brain cancer. On that basis, our investigator was satisfied that cover never wouldve been 
offered by Vitality, and it had correctly refused Mr Cs claim.   
Ms H said Mr C disagreed with the conclusions of our investigator and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She made some further submissions, noting:
Mrs Cs son has confirmed that the nature of her illness meant Mrs C was unaware of 
the extent of her issues;
Mrs C therefore may not have been aware of the significance of her urinary 
continence;
she disagrees that it was clear that Mrs C intended or knew she intended to see her 
GP regarding personality change or headaches at the time she sought the policy on 
17 May 2018;
when Mrs C saw her GP on 21 May it was with a ten-day history of urinary 
incontinence;
Mrs C had been to the GP on several occasions during 2018 and had not complained 
of any problems relating to her bladder, headaches or personality change on any 
occasion; 
Mrs C had certainly not been diagnosed with any condition previously and her 
medical notes and records do not refer to any previous condition;  
at the request of Mr C a further appointment was made on 23 May 2020 as he 
became aware Mrs C had not mentioned depression to her GP two days earlier;
an appointment happened the next day, by which time Mrs C had suffered a first and 
uncharacteristic episode of faecal incontinence;
it was only at this appointment along with her son on 25 May 2020 that a change of 
personality was discussed, having been present since December 2017;
but that referred to Mrs Cs previous history of depression;
it was only upon further questioning that Mrs C was able to recall a month-long 
history of headaches and disclosed a further (by this time) seven episodes of urinary 
incontinence over that past week;
so, Ms H disagrees that Mrs C would have intended to see her GP about the 
symptoms  they only transpired after Mr C intervened regarding Mrs C having felt 
depressed and suffering from a lack of motivation;
further, she contends that the two questions our investigator highlighted are neither 
clear nor specific;
in fact, the questions are so widely worded that almost anything could be included so 
as to avoid a claim payment under a life policy;Mrs C did not have a known disorder of her kidneys or bladder so was not required to 
disclose urinary incontinence as part of that question;
as Vitality is not obliged to disclose its commercially sensitive underwriting 
information, Ms H contended that Vitality could have insured Mrs C;
the type of brain cancer Mrs C had can cause a number of distinct symptoms 
common to all patients, to which urinary incontinence is not one;
Mrs C did not knowingly, recklessly or carelessly answer Vitalitys questions 
incorrectly;
Mrs C called Vitality on 4 June 2018 after her diagnosis and was told that her policy 
would be valid providing she was not awaiting any tests or scans as at the time she 
applied for her policy;
if Mrs C had intended to mislead Vitality from the outset, it does not follow that she 
would check with Vitality as to whether her life policy would be valid or not. 
Mrs Cs son also wrote a further letter of appeal, explaining in some detail the nature of the 
condition Mrs C had suffered from. He also made comments as to why the matter should be 
decided differently. In summary, he said that:
he believes that the parties ought to seek expert medical opinion in this matter  i.e. 
a neurosurgeon/neurologist with interest in frontal lobe disease;
it cannot be said that Mrs C answered the questions to the best of her knowledge;
a frontal lobe tumour akin to the one Mrs C suffered from causes a sphere of effects 
including disinhibition, behavioural changes, personality changes, inability to plan 
for the future and poor attention span;
it is therefore possible that Mrs C having suffered from incontinence of both bladder 
and bowel were as a result of disinterest, resulting from frontal lobe damage;
this also made Mrs C agree to things she wouldnt normally accept, such as the 
taking out of life assurance after a cold call by the third party broker;
the fact Mrs C was able to report urinary incontinence to the GP on 21 May 2018 but 
not to the sales person on 17 May 2018 could be because of the type of brain 
tumour inhibiting her recall of these events;
though neither he nor his father can account for what was said on 21 May 2018, he 
was present at the GP appointment of 25 May 2018;
at this time he had visited his mother urgently following the incidence of faecal 
incontinence resulting from her acting in an indifferent manner whilst out shopping;
at the appointment, Mrs Cs recollection of the events over the previous days was 
poor;
on that basis, he believes that Mrs C would not have been able to recall the details of 
her issues with incontinence and headaches during the sales call;
he does not consider that the impact of a personality change caused by frontal lobe 
damage rendered Mrs C entirely incapable of deciding to take up life assurance  
this was because she was later able to give consents to treating doctors around 
other matters such as resuscitation;
but, he does contend that Mrs C had a complex medical situation and clear, 
mitigating reasons as to why she did not make certain disclosures to the broker.   
 
Our investigator thanked Ms H and Mr Cs son for their additional comments, but they did not 
change his view. 
He explained that he had recognised it could never be conclusively known whether Mrs C 
intended to see her GP about symptoms such as her personality change. He also noted that 
their views were suggesting that Mrs C may have lacked capacity to disclose her symptoms.
However, this did not alter that he felt Mrs C could have disclosed the matter relating to urinary incontinence and that any underwriting and additional information request would 
have taken Mrs C beyond the date of her diagnosis on 31 May 2018.   
Ms H therefore reiterated that Mr C and his son wanted the complaint passed to an 
ombudsman. 
Vitality said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further. I was very sorry to have learned of Mrs C having passed away and 
Id like to send my condolences to Mr C, his son and their family. Despite my considerable 
sympathy for the circumstances of Mrs Cs illness, I do not think this complaint should 
succeed. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
I also realise that Mrs Cs son feels particularly strongly about the manner in which the late 
Mrs C was sold her life assurance policy. Whilst I understand that, Im not able to consider 
issues about the sales process here. That is because Vitality did not sell the policy to Mrs C 
and that would be the subject of a separate complaint if Mr C wished to pursue that matter 
on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs C.  
Though I realise Mr Cs son feels this matter can only be adequately assessed by the receipt 
of further medical evidence, I disagree. For the reasons Ill go on to explain, this complaint 
does not hinge on the extent of Mrs Cs frontal lobe disease such that additional medical 
evidence of that nature is needed for me to reach a determination. 
Our role as set out by the rules governing this service is to determine a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all of the circumstances of a complaint. It doesnt require that the matter can only 
be reviewed by a person with specialist medical knowledge in a certain field, such as 
neurology. In reaching my findings I will take account of relevant laws, regulations and best 
industry practice alongside the evidence before me. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what Vitality has done, and the basis on which it sought further information 
from Mrs Cs GP.  
The law says expressly that an insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a 
misrepresentation made by the consumer before a consumer insurance contract was 
entered into. For that reason, Vitality was reasonable in trying to determine what ought to 
have happened, as Mrs Cs cause of death shortly after the policy began didnt accord with 
the application it had received which made no specific disclosures. 
So, it falls to me to look at what Mrs C was asked and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation or not. When she completed the application, she was asked the following:  
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the 
following in the last 5 years: any disorder of the kidneys or bladder, including blood or 
protein in the urine or urinary tract infection?; andApart from anything you have already told us about in this form, do you have any 
impairment or medical conditions that you intend seeking medical advice for, or are 
currently awaiting the results of any investigations?
I accept, as Ms H and Mr Cs son have submitted, that Mrs C didnt likely consider she had a 
disorder of the bladder or kidneys. She hadnt yet sought advice over the incontinence 
issues she was suffering as they were so recent. However, like our investigator, I believe 
that the second question I have set out above should have been answered positively.
Where there is insufficient evidence to make a definitive assessment, I need to consider 
what is more likely to have happened (or should have happened) on the balance of 
probabilities. Mr Cs son has accepted that Mrs C had capability in some areas of decision 
making but that it is conceivable and most likely that she didnt recognise some of the 
changes that had happened in her behaviour and personality, such as indifference and 
disinhibition.
Though I am mindful of that, I cannot disregard that Mrs C was able to tell her GP on 21 May 
2018 (without Mr C or her son present) that she had suffered from a ten day history of 
urinary incontinence. I have not seen any conclusive evidence that Mrs C was unable to take 
reasonable care over her answers to the broker. But even if this were the case, Mrs C was 
sent a copy of her answers to check by Vitality by post which would have arrived shortly 
before or, given the weekend, at the same time as her GP appointment.  
The broker also wrote to Mrs C explaining that during the application you answered the 
health and lifestyle questions in order for us to submit this information to the insurance 
company, Failure to have answered these questions correctly or missing out any related 
information may result in any claims being affected or not paid. You will shortly receive a 
copy of the application from the insurance company, please check through this carefully. If 
any details are incorrect or require additional information, please amend and initial prior to 
returning that form to the insurer, which must be returned as soon as possible.
Both of those sets of correspondence regarding the answers to the telephone application 
explain to Mrs C the consequence of failing to answer questions correctly and the effect that 
doing so will have on any future claims.  
I dont believe, on balance, that Mrs C would be able to recall having a short history of 
incontinence to the GP but be unable to relay that when asked the above question by the 
broker just four days before. I also say that noting how by the time she was sent a copy of 
her answers to check, she had talked to the GP and therefore had sought medical advice 
about it. 
As Ive said above, I have to make a finding on balance. And to conclude that Mrs C could 
not have relayed any matters to the broker altogether would be at odds with the content of 
her medical records and the statement given by the GP where he says Mrs C told him of this 
ten-day history relating to incontinence, which is reaffirmed in further hospital referrals. 
In considering reasonable care to answer a question accurately, the law and relevant 
industry guidance from the Association of British Insurers on misrepresentation for policies of 
this nature explains that a question ought to be clear, specific and concise. I dont accept Ms 
Hs view that the question is too-wide ranging such that it operates as a general exclusion. 
Whilst the question does ask about any matter an applicant might not have otherwise 
disclosed, it is set out within the constraints of being something that is either under 
investigation or sufficiently troublesome enough that the applicant intends to see a doctor about it. It doesnt go further to ask about any conceivable future medical condition.
The episodes of urinary incontinence that Mrs C had recently begun to experience were 
concerning enough to Mr C that another, immediate GP appointment was sought; thereafter, 
Mrs Cs investigation and diagnosis came sadly within less than a week. I believe events 
such as these would reasonably be the types of circumstances that an insurer is trying to 
elicit from an applicant, because it has a direct bearing on the decision to offer cover.  
It follows that in the circumstances I believe there was a misrepresentation and that it was a 
qualifying misrepresentation because Vitality has shown that without the misrepresentation, 
it would not have entered into the contract at all.  
Though I recognise that there is an understandable explanation for what has gone on, it is 
nonetheless clear that a misrepresentation took place as relevant information was withheld. 
And once thats been established, relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance 
contracts says that it should be classed as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. The 
differing categorisations allow for different types of outcomes.
Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight to serious 
negligence, and I think Mrs Cs actions sit within that range of responses as there is a 
credible explanation for why the answer is wrong, but nonetheless it was relevant to Vitality.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this.
Vitality has shown (it has provided us confirmed underwriting) that where an applicant such 
as Mrs C disclosed urinary incontinence, it needs medical evidence to underwrite the 
symptom based on the cause or diagnosis. I recognise that Mr Cs son agrees that this 
symptom was related to Mrs Cs type of brain cancer diagnosis though Ms H suggests not. 
Either way, looking at what ought to have happened at the time means that Vitality would 
have asked Mrs Cs GP for a report or a series of targeted questions about the urinary 
issues. Whether these were related or not, by the time it would have done so, Mrs C was 
diagnosed with her illness. And, that condition is one that Vitality cannot sadly offer any 
cover for at all given its severity.
Vitality hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2018 as it would have if it had 
known about Mrs Cs correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the 
relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for it to refuse the claim now and treat the policy 
as void. That means I cant ask it to pay Mr Cs claim because Vitality would not have been 
in a position to insure Mrs C in the first place.
It may help Mr C, his son and Ms H to note how the guidance I have referred to from the ABI 
earlier in this decision also explains that, in applying a proportionate remedy, in principle, no 
customer should be better off than any other customer who had answered all of the insurers 
questions honestly and with the exercise of reasonable care.
That means that even if I were to agree that Mrs Cs particular circumstances with the onset 
of frontal lobe symptoms meant that she could not have told Vitality about it when asked by 
the broker or when invited to correct the incorrect answer in writing, the right outcome to this 
complaint would not be to arbitrarily enforce the insurance contract. Mrs Cs family and Ms H have understandably explained why Mrs C may not have known to 
disclose this history, but it remains the case that an applicant who had disclosed the same 
circumstances as Mrs C would not have been able to obtain insurance from Vitality at all. It 
follows that I cannot reasonably compel it to pay a claim in Mr Cs case. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr C and his familys circumstances I cannot uphold this complaint 
or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman