DRN-3196616
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complains that because of delays by Just Retirement Limited, Mr Js 
widow, Mrs J, has lost out on death benefits.
The estate of Mr J wants Just Retirement to match and backdate the death benefits and pay 
compensation for the resulting distress
What happened
In 2017 Mr J wanted to transfer his annuity from his existing provider. Just Retirement 
received his application on 20 September 2017. But as the rate guarantee had expired, Just 
Retirement ran a new quote and contacted Mr Js Financial Intermediary (FI) who confirmed 
that Mr J still wanted to proceed.
Just Retirement referred Mr Js application to its technical team on 28 September 2017. On 
2 October 2017 Just Retirement asked Mr Js FI for the date of the last annuity payment and 
payment frequency. 
On 31 October 2017, Just Retirement received confirmation from Mr Js existing provider 
that the last payment made was on 17 October 2017 and that payment was made monthly in 
advance. On 2 November 2017, Just Retirement asked Mr Js existing provider for the funds 
with the intention of making the first payment to Mr J on 17 November 2017.
Just Retirement contacted Mr Js existing provider on 7 November 2017 to be told that it had 
everything it needed from Just Retirement but that it was waiting for Mr J to return a common 
quotation form that it had sent to him on 25 October 2017. 
On 8 November 2017 Mr Js existing provider emailed Just Retirement to ask for 
confirmation that Just Retirement was willing to accept the transfer value to purchase a 
lifetime annuity and that by transferring, Mr J would lose the minimum income guarantee 
(MIG) held under the flexible income annuity (FIA).
On 13 November 2013, Just Retirement emailed the FI to check that Mr J was happy to 
proceed on the basis that his existing provider had set out. The FI confirmed Mr J was happy 
to go ahead so on 15 November 2017, Just Retirement responded to the existing provider.
Mr Js existing provider processed the transfer and Just Retirement received the funds on 30 
November 2017. As this was an annuity to annuity transfer, the policy start date had to be 
the annuity payment date of the 17th of each month. This meant the start date for the annuity 
policy with Just Retirement was 17 December 2017.
Mr J sadly passed away on 14 December 2017 so the payment made to his account on 17 
December 2017 was returned. As Mr J died before the policy started, Just Retirement was 
instructed by his existing provider to send the money back. This happened on 12 February 
2018.
Mrs J brought a complaint to this service. She thought that Just Retirements failure to head 
its letter of 2 November 2017 with the words annuity to annuity led to a delay because Mr Js 
existing provider then had to send a clarification request.
Mrs J is very unhappy as she says she lost out on a guaranteed annual income of more than 
£6,000 on the death of Mr J. And that this was the point of Mr J deciding to transfer his 
annuity from his existing provider to Just Retirement. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that due to the 
nature of the benefits which Mr J was giving up, his existing provider wouldve sent the 
clarification request regardless of whether the transfer request had included the words 
annuity to annuity. 
The investigator explained that due to the terms of Mr Js annuity, the next payment had to 
follow a month after the last payment made by the existing provider. Overall, the investigator 
didnt think that Just Retirement had done anything wrong.
Mrs J is very unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She cant understand why we 
dont think that the missing wording on the transfer request document didnt lead directly to a 
delay. Mrs J thinks that if this heading had been included, Mr Js existing provider wouldnt 
have needed to contact Just Retirement. 
Mrs J asked for evidence that Just Retirement had been chasing Mr Js FI for information 
and that it wasnt received until 1 November 2017. The investigator provided this information 
which showed that Just Retirement had received the information from S on 31 October 2017 
not 1 November 2017. 
Mrs J thinks that there shouldve been direct contact between Mr Js existing provider and 
Just Retirement rather than Just Retirement going through the FI. She also points out that 
Mr Js existing provider wouldve been able to confirm the last payment date rather than the 
FI. Mrs J thinks that Just Retirement is effectively trying to scapegoat the FI. So, she wants 
to see evidence of Just Retirements administrative procedures to see what steps it 
shouldve taken to get answers to questions.
Mrs J is unhappy with the deadlines she has been given by this service as she couldnt 
speak in time with the FI. Initially, the investigator didnt respond to Mrs Js request to see 
Just Retirements administrative processes.
Mrs J asked the investigator to confirm that he wasnt going to request details of Just 
Retirements administrative processes as she thought these were crucial to the resolution of 
the complaint. The investigator said he hadnt felt the need to request this information to 
reach his view on the complaint but that if I, as ombudsman, felt they were necessary, it 
would be for me to request them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Just Retirement wrote to Mr Js existing provider on 2 November 2017. The letter included 
several attachments, one of which is called a Transfer & Open Market Option Form. To reach my decision, I have looked at the other complaint that Mrs J brought to this service 
about Mr Js existing provider. In that complaint, the existing provider told this service that 
the Transfer & Open Market Form that Just Retirement sent didnt apply to Mr Js transfer as 
it was an annuity to annuity transfer. And that as Mr Js existing provider needed explicit 
consent for an annuity to annuity transfer, it emailed Just Retirement on 8 November 2017.  
I can understand Mrs Js concern that Just Retirement didnt make it clear in its letter of 2 
November 2017 that there was to be an annuity to annuity transfer. And that this failure led 
directly to Mr Js existing provider needing to clarify things further with Just Retirement which 
in turn led to the start date being pushed back from an anticipated 17 November 2017 to 17 
December 2017. 
Although the form is headed with the words - Transfer & Open Market Option Form, it does 
set out the type of scheme being transferred  a pension annuity together with the purchase 
type, which was a lifetime annuity. There is also a signed receiving provider declaration 
document attached which refers to the transfer payment from Mr Js FIA to the Just 
Retirement lifetime annuity. And there was a transfer request form which had been signed by 
Mr J confirming he understood that he was giving up a MIG by transferring his annuity to 
Just Retirement. As Mr J had signed this form in mid-September 2017 and he was giving up 
a valuable benefit in his MIG, it seems likely his existing provider wanted to make sure he 
was aware of what he was doing. So, I dont consider the fact that Just Retirement didnt 
include the wording annuity to annuity transfer on its letter of 2 November 2017 or that it 
included the Transfer & Open Market Option form means it made a mistake which in turn 
caused a delay.  
Just Retirement asked the FI for confirmation that Mr J wanted to proceed with the transfer 
on 13 November 2017. Although this was five days after Mr Js existing provider had made 
the request, the 13th was a Monday, so I cant say there was an unreasonable delay. And 
once the FI replied on 13 November 2017, Just Retirement sent the transfer request to      
Mr Js existing provider on 15 November 2017. Again, not an unreasonable timescale.
I can see that Mrs J has expressed some concerns about Just Retirement asking the FI for 
information, rather than approaching Mr J direct. But I dont think I can criticise Just 
Retirement for this. It was the FI who submitted Mr Js annuity application to Just 
Retirement. And the accompanying letter gives the FIs number in case Just Retirement 
needs any further information. 
The FI was named on the application form and was to be paid a commission for the work he 
carried out on behalf of Mr J. So, it seems reasonable for the FI to have been able to answer 
questions about Mr Js FIA policy. I also say this because after Just Retirement asked the FI 
for some details by email of 2 October 2017, it followed up with him on 16 October 2017 by 
phone. During the call, the FI confirmed that the FIA payments were made monthly in 
advance but that hed have to come back to Just Retirement regarding the date of the last 
payment. There isnt any indication from Just Retirements notes that the FI thought it was 
better to approach Mr Js existing provider direct. 
After Just Retirement didnt hear back from the FI, it sent a follow up email on 20 October 
2017 before going direct to Mr Js existing provider by email on 25 October 2017. Overall, I 
dont consider that Just Retirement did anything wrong in the way that it handled the annuity 
transfer process. And I dont consider I needed to have asked Just Retirement for details of 
its administration processes to reach this conclusion.
Once Mr Js existing provider had processed the transfer of funds at the end of November 
2017, the first payment date by Just Retirement had to be on the 17th of the month to be in 
line with the existing FIA payment schedule. Sadly, the first annuity payment was received after Mr J passed away but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider Just 
Retirement acted unreasonably when dealing with Mr Js request to transfer his annuity. 
The policy start date wouldve been the date on which Just Retirement made the first annuity 
payment i.e. 17 December 2017, so the only option was for Just Retirement to return the 
funds to Mr Js existing provider. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Just Retirement caused the delays which led to Mr Js 
existing provider not transferring the funds in time to start his new annuity on 17 November 
2017. But even if I was to conclude that Just Retirements letter of 2 November 2017 led 
directly to the delay, it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. This is because during 
Mrs Js other complaint, Mr Js existing provider identified a serious error. Mr Js health had 
deteriorated to such a point that the transfer value of his FIA shouldve been £0, which 
meant the transfer shouldnt have gone ahead in the first place. So, any delay caused by 
Just Retirement wouldnt have made a difference to the fact that there was no value to 
transfer to the new annuity. I understand that this is deeply upsetting for Mrs J but I consider 
it to be a key piece of evidence which directly impacts her complaint against Just 
Retirement.
As I dont consider Just Retirement did anything wrong, I dont require it to take any of the 
steps sought in this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman