DRN-2165449
The complaint
Mrs O says she never asked Allay Claims Ltd to act for her in a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim. And the signature they had wasnt hers.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs O was told by her lender that she had a successful PPI claim, and the 
amount of compensation shed receive. A few days later Mrs O was asked by Allay to pay 
their fee for her successful claim. Mrs O said shes never asked Allay to act on her behalf in 
making a PPI claim. And complained to them.
Allay said Mrs O made an online application in July 2019 for them to carry out a free PPI 
check with her lenders. They said shed also signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
them to make a PPI claim for her, should any PPI be found. 
In November 2019, Allay said they told Mrs O that PPI had been found. And in January 2020 
her lender told them her claim was successful. Mrs O hadnt cancelled the agreement shed 
made them within the 14-day cooling off period. And as her claim was successful, Allay said 
their fee was due. 
Mrs O wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us. She said the 
signature and information Allay had wasnt correct. Theyd shown the IP address used to 
make the application wasnt in her home location, and the signature on the application bore 
no resemblance to hers. She said this showed she hadnt requested Allay to carry out the 
free PPI checks. And as a long-standing customer of the lender they would have refunded 
her without Allays involvement.
Our investigator said Allay had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions. He said Mrs O had authorised them to act on her behalf and hadnt cancelled the 
agreement. He said Allay could charge their success fee.
Mrs O didnt agree and reiterated that the application was fraudulent. And that the 
investigator had shown bias and based his findings on probability. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide, where the level of proof needed is beyond reasonable doubt. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were 
impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story 
because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision 
on what I think most likely happened  the balance of probability.
I can understand Mrs Os frustration as she is adamant, she hasnt asked Allay to act for her 
in making a PPI claim with her lender. So, Ive considered whether Mrs O authorised Allay to 
act for her in submitting a PPI claim. And if she did, whether she let them know she no 
longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether Allay has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with Mrs O.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs O has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mrs Os lenders, and these details were also 
provided. A LoA would have been generated by the application, populated with the supplied 
information. And to be submitted a signature had to be added and this is what happened. I 
know Mrs O thinks the information was generic and could be obtained through other 
sources. But I think the supplied information is specific to her, and the application would 
have been made for her benefit to seek redress for a mis-sold PPI policy.  So, on balance I 
think it would have been Mrs O who completed and submitted the on-line application. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in submitting the LoA Mrs O 
had agreed to them. Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender.
I can see Allay forwarded the information to Mrs Os lender in August 2019, and Mrs Os 
lender automatically converted this into a claim. And in November 2019 after the lender told 
them Mrs O had taken out a PPI policy, Allay sent a Good News message to Mrs O, telling 
her that PPI had been found. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer 
Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, 
download a Cancellation Form from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The 
Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
Allay has shown they sent Mrs Os details to her lender in August 2019. And, 25 November 
2019 that theyd emailed her about PPI being found. If I calculate the 14-day cooling off 
period from the date Allay notified Mrs O she had PPI, this would have given her until 9 
December 2019, to cancel her agreement with Allay. And if Mrs O was certain she hadnt 
asked Allay to work for her, she could have upon being told about PPI being found taken this 
opportunity to ask Allay about their involvement. And to cancel it at no charge. Mrs O may 
not have acted on or read the emails, but I cant hold Allay responsible for this. And I dont 
think it was enough by Mrs O not engaging with Allay to consider this as her cancelling her 
agreement with them. I cant see any evidence that despite opportunities for Mrs O to speak 
to or get in touch with Allay, it wasnt until after her claim was successful that she questioned 
Allays involvement. 
In January 2020, Mrs Os lender told her that her claim for the mis-selling of a PPI policy was 
successful. And I can see they also told Allay. I think this shows they saw Allay as Mrs Os 
representative. And I havent seen any evidence that Mrs O directly asked her lender to 
investigate a mis-sold PPI policy for her. And Mrs Os lender wouldnt have looked at the mis-selling complaint without a claim being made before the August 2019 deadline for 
making such claims. So, Im persuaded that Mrs O authorised Allay to act on behalf.
The agreement Mrs O had with Allay was based on a No Win No Fee. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Mrs Os claim was successful, 
and Allays fees were charged in line with what Mrs O agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats 
in place for PPI claims.
I know Mrs O will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the evidence 
provided I think Allay had been authorised to act on her behalf to pursue her claim for mis-
sold PPI.  And she didnt cancel her agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they 
can charge their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman