DRN-2634197
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that Christians Against Poverty (CAP) made errors in 
administering a debt management plan (DMP). It says this resulted in damage to their credit 
files. They want Christians Against Poverty to write to their creditors and accept it made 
mistakes. And they seek compensation.
What happened
Although this complaint is brought jointly, for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mr A.
Mr A tells us that in 2017 he and his wife approached CAP regarding their financial situation. 
He says that debt had been accumulated although there were no arrears or County Court 
Judgments. And that repayments were being made on time. Also in respect of credit card 
debts the minimum payments were being maintained.
Mr A states that due to the way CAP administered the account, payments werent made on 
the due dates which resulted in late payment markers. And he says that minimum payments 
werent always met as CAP made equal payments to each creditor. He says this resulted in 
account defaults although there had been sufficient money being paid into the DMP to have 
avoided this.
CAP told us that it had explained the services it offered to Mr A and Mrs A. And that they had 
signed the client agreement. CAP stated that it had administered the DMP in accordance 
with instructions given by Mr A and Mrs A. It didnt accept that it had done anything wrong.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 February 2021. I said that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. I found that CAP had administered the DMP in accordance 
with the agreement it had made with Mr A and Mrs A.
Since then both parties have replied. CAP said that it agreed with my provisional decision. 
And stated that it had clearly set out the way in which payments would be applied if the DMP 
was activated. And that Mr and Mrs A had agreed with this.
Mr A has provided a comprehensive and detailed response in which he sets out how the 
monthly amount he was paying into the plan couldve been apportioned so as to avoid 
arrears and defaults.
I thank both parties for their responses. Ive considered carefully what Mr A has stated. But 
for reasons Ill fully explain, Im not minded to change my provisional view. This is largely 
repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A and Mrs A are disappointed in the way things have worked out after 
they entered a DMP. And I accept that it was their intention to meet their obligations in a 
responsible way.
Mr As complaint is that CAP didnt exercise sufficient care in handling the DMP. And that as 
a result of this alleged mis-management he and his wife are worse off financially and have 
had their credit files damaged.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In the original complaint letter to CAP, Mr A highlighted specific areas of concern. And his 
submission following my provisional decision expands upon this. Hes emphasised what he 
describes as the duty of care and how he feels that CAP hasnt treated him fairly.
Whilst I respect Mr As view on the matter, the duty of care involves CAP providing Mr A with 
sufficient information to allow him to make an informed decision as to whether its services 
are suitable for his objectives. Its not for CAP to make that decision for him.
The nature of DMPs is that they offer a structured approach to paying off non-priority debts. 
These include unsecured loans and credit cards. Broadly speaking they seek to offer the 
respective creditors a fair distribution of the funds available to repay the debt. 
Individuals look to DMPs for a variety of different reasons. Typically, there isnt sufficient 
money available to cover all the debt repayments in full. But there are other entirely 
legitimate reasons why an individual seeks assistance. In Mr A and Mrs As case they set 
out to reduce the overall level of the debt that had accumulated. 
CAP offered an assessment process which sought to identify the various debts, how they 
could be repaid and the priorities which Mr A and Mrs A attached to the repayments. The 
process involved several stages over a period of a couple of weeks. That appears to be 
ample time for any queries about the nature of the service being offered to be resolved.
To this end CAP issued various documents. These included Interim and Full client 
agreements; a monitoring form; and a Journey out of Debt leaflet. There was also an 
explanatory video.
The Journey Out of Debt leaflet contained the warnings:
When we contact your creditors sometimes we can ask them to stop adding interest and 
charges to your debt. Although we can't guarantee that they will agree to this, we have seen 
good success in the past because of our great relationships with most of major banks and 
debt companies. They respect our work and trust us. However, interest and charges can't 
always be stopped and you may find that the balance of your debt increases in the short 
term.Your credit rating may be affected.
This is because CAP may have to pay less than you have contractually agreed to pay back 
to your creditors. Your debt could be passed on to different departments within a company or 
sold to a debt collection company. This can mean it's easier for CAP to get interest and 
charges stopped but could also mean that your credit rating is negatively affected, which will 
make it harder for you to take out credit in the future. If you've missed any payments on a 
debt in the past, this may have already happened.
For payments made through the CAP Plan, creditors are likely to be paid on a different or 
later date than they had previously agreed to and/or they will be paid later than if you had 
made the payment directly to them yourself.
I note that the Interim Client Agreement dated 14 March at item 22 contained the following:
Our priority is to help you become debt free, not to improve or preserve your credit rating. 
Your credit rating is likely to be negatively impacted by any payments you have already 
defaulted on, as well as during the time you work with CAP. In particular, it is likely that you 
will not be making contractual payments and default notices may be issued by your 
creditors
This is also repeated in item 52 in the full agreement of 28 March, to which Ill refer later. 
From an early stage I think CAP made it clear of the likely effects the DMP would have.
Im also satisfied that CAP explained that it was providing options  but that it was for Mr A 
and Mrs A to decide how to proceed. And that they neednt choose any of the services 
offered by CAP and /or they could terminate the agreement at any time. They both chose the 
Debt Repayment option as listed on the final client agreement. 
I understand what Mr A has explained about the monthly payments he made and how these 
might have been distributed creatively. But that is not the service which CAP offered. 
Thats why I said in my provisional findings that I felt that underlying this complaint is a 
misunderstanding by Mr A and Mrs A of CAPs role. That remains my opinion. Ill explain 
why.
As individuals we have a choice in determining what we feel is of most importance to us. Mr 
A and Mrs A knew that CAP would  as part of the DMP  be asking creditors to freeze 
interest and not apply other charges. This would potentially assist their aim to reduce their 
overall level of debt. Clearly if interest and charges are suspended then any repayments will 
reduce the capital debt quicker than would otherwise be the case.
Subsequently some creditors did agree to these steps. The result was that Mr A and Mrs A 
obtained the benefit of saving on interest and charges. There also appear to have been 
goodwill payments applied by at least two creditors.
By entering into a DMP - and having regard to all the warnings that were given - Mr A and 
Mrs A apparently decided that the benefit of a single monthly payment together with the 
prospect of interest being frozen was more important than maintaining numerous separate 
contractual payments. If maintaining a credit score was more important than the single 
monthly payment and interest freeze then they could have carried on keeping up with 
contractual payments without any help from CAP.Its unlikely that their creditors wouldve agreed to stop interest and charges if payments 
hadnt been part of a DMP. One of the principal features is that a DMP is usually supported  
as it was in Mr As case - by a Common Financial Statement. This latter document is an 
industry recognised tool which enables creditors to see that each is being treated fairly and 
proportionately in terms of the distribution of available money.
Mr A has acknowledged in his response to my provisional view that pro rata payments were 
explained in terms that his creditors would be given equal parts of the pie. Pro rata  which 
is the method widely applied across DMPs throughout the industry - means that each 
creditor receives the same percentage of the available funds in proportion to the overall 
debt. But in purely monetary terms the sums being repaid are not the same. This also means 
that contractual or minimum payments arent necessarily being met.
Following the initial assessment of the available income a schedule of payments set out the 
different amounts which it was intended to pay to various creditors along with the total 
amounts owed. During the course of the DMP these would vary as disposable income 
changed. As an example, the first schedule had disposable income at over £900 which later 
in the DMP reduced to around £695. But the principle of pro rata payment remained.
By setting out the proposed repayments, the schedules also allowed Mr A to make 
comparison with the minimum or contractual payments on the various accounts.  And this 
wouldve enabled him to see if minimum / contractual payments would be met. And to decide 
if this was acceptable. CAP may not have explicitly stated that a particular account might 
default. But it had warned of the likely general effect and had provided Mr A with sufficient 
information about proposed payments to enable him to judge which were the accounts most 
likely to be affected.
Item 10 of the Final Client Agreement reads:
Provided that you make the agreed payments to your CAP Plan (as set out in the CAP Plan 
Schedule), we shall pay the amounts shown in the CAP Plan Schedule. This is on the basis 
that we hold sufficient cleared funds in your CAP Plan.
The basic point being that CAP isnt exercising a discretion regarding which creditors are 
paid and how much. It is following the instructions provided by Mr A and Mrs A as part of the 
agreement. Mr A has suggested that a different method of distributing the available sums 
would have avoided late payment markers and defaults. This may be true, but it wasnt the 
method that had been set out in the agreement.
The terms and conditions of the Full Client Agreement includes:
Item 52: credit rating / score (my underlining):
Our priority is to help you become debt free, not to improve or preserve your credit rating. 
Your credit rating is likely to be negatively impacted by any payments you have already 
defaulted on, as well as during the time you work with CAP. In particular it is likely that you 
will not be rnaking contractual payrnents and default notices rnay be issued by your creditors 
and registered with credit reference agencies. You may find it more difficult to obtain credit in 
future.
Mr A told me in his reply to my provisional view that he assumed that as the monthly 
payment was sufficient to cover contractual and minimum payments, defaults wouldnt occur 
and item 52 would not be applicable. And I think its likely that such an assumption is what 
led to the misunderstanding to which I referred.I understand the point being made but I cant see there is a reasonable basis for his belief 
that item 52 didnt apply. CAP was offering a specific service which included pro rata 
payments as opposed to a pro-actively managed or discretionary service. 
The warnings that priority was not being given to the preservation of credit ratings and that 
contractual payments may not be met were plainly stated. It would not be fair and 
reasonable to hold CAP responsible for assumptions made which did not accord with the 
agreement. If Mr A didnt wish certain conditions to apply then he was free to decline to 
accept the terms of the DMP.
Im aware that CAP has recently altered some of its policies with reference to how and when 
payments are made. Ive seen nothing that persuades me that this was due directly to any 
aspect of this complaint. Businesses frequently update and improve systems so I dont draw 
any inference that this change amounts to an acceptance that Mr A and Mrs As DMP was 
administered incorrectly.
In summary, I empathise with Mr A and Mrs A in that the DMP didnt work out in the way 
they had hoped. But I find that CAP has acted fairly and properly in the way it administered 
the DMP. In particular, it made clear that entering into a DMP was likely to have an adverse 
effect on their credit files; that payment dates of debts might alter; that pro rata payments 
meant that minimum and / or contractual payments might not be made; and that defaults 
might occur.
I accept that when these consequences arose, Mr A and Mrs A may, with hindsight, have 
wished they had taken a different course of action. But I cant fairly attribute responsibility for 
that to CAP. Its also fair to say that despite the issues which Mr A has raised the DMP 
provided benefits in terms of reduced interest and charges which went towards their aim of 
reducing their level of debt.
I understand that Mr A and Mrs A will be disappointed by my final decision. It remains open 
to them to approach the credit reference agencies and issue a Notice of Correction. This 
allows them to explain how any adverse entry on their credit files came about. And it is there 
for prospective future lenders to consider when assessing any applications.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman