DRN-3593979
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have unfairly refused to refund over 
£26,000 he lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr H was approached by several scam investment brokers 
(Abinance, Bubblext and Reverse Trails) who convinced him to invest his money under 
the pretence of increasing his monthly income through crypto currency trading.
Mr H transferred around £26,000 over 16 payments made from 17 August 2020 to 
31 December 2020. Barclays initially identified the first payment made on 17 August 2020 as 
suspicious (although it hasnt been able to explain why) which resulted in it sending a text 
message to Mr H asking him to confirm the payment was genuine, which he did. However, 
he subsequently discovered he had been scammed and complained when Barclays refused 
to refund the money he had lost. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think sending a text message was a 
proportionate response to the suspicious activity identified on Mr Hs account and thought 
Barclays should have gone further. The investigator thought that the scam would have likely 
been prevented if Barclays had contacted Mr H from the outset and asked probing questions 
about the nature of the payment. Barclays disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments he made to the various 
crypto-exchange platforms using his Barclays credit card (where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallet, of which I 
understand the scammers had access to). The payments were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Barclays, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr H 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Barclays has said that the first payment Mr H made to Tinkbit on 17 August 2020 did 
trigger its fraud detection systems, although it has been unable to specify why. 
However, they have said that it couldve been due to the transaction appearing out of 
character or because of previous instances of fraud related to the merchant. 
So, it isnt in dispute that this first payment was unusual given that it did trigger the 
banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending further 
enquiry. Accordingly, its just a matter of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with that intervention.
When Mr H attempted the £1,000 payment to Tinkbit on 17 August 2020, Barclays 
sent him a text message asking him to confirm the payment was genuine. I 
appreciate Barclays have been unable to disclose the specific reason why the 
payment was blocked, but given theyve said it would have been due to it appearing 
unusual or due to previous instances of fraud related to the merchant, Im not 
persuaded a text message asking Mr H to confirm he was making the payment is a 
proportionate response. Given it had flagged it as a suspicious payment, it ought to 
have gone further and spoken to Mr H to find out more about the nature of the 
transaction he was making before allowing it to be processed, rather than simply 
asking him to confirm if it was genuine. 
Barclays says that if it had a discussion with Mr H it would not have found any 
adverse information about the merchant he was dealing with. I appreciate there were 
no FCA warning published about the merchant at the point Mr H began making the 
scam payments. However, I still think its likely that a scam warning would have 
prevented Mr H from going any further, as there were several indications that he was 
being scammed, which Barclays ought reasonably to have been aware of 
(particularly those involving cryptocurrency) by August 2020.
If Barclays had contacted Mr H and asked him further questions and for more of the 
basic surrounding context, I think its likely he would have explained what he was 
doing and that he was making an investment after being approached by an unknown 
broker, where he was being told to send money to the broker via crypto-exchange 
platforms. He would have likely told them that the broker had access to his crypto 
wallets and was making trades on his behalf, which is also another hallmark of this 
type of investment scam, as the fraudster will often transfer the money into their own 
wallet from the victims once the money has been transferred. Barclays should have 
recognised these circumstances of being indicative of a scam and have acted to 
provide Mr H with a warning.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mr H from his trusted bank would have 
probably led him to discover various scam warnings online. I appreciate there were 
no FCA warnings about the merchants at the time, but I can see there were other 
websites warning people about investing with merchants such as Bubblext at the 
time. 
Even if Mr H had not worked out that the broker he was talking to was fraudulent, it is 
likely that a warning would have at least alerted him to the common issues arising in 
relation to cryptocurrency/forex dealer scams, which in turn would have revealed the 
truth behind the supposed brokers representations. This would have probably 
stopped Mr H in his tracks. So, but for Barclays failure to act on clear triggers of 
potential fraud or financial harm, Mr H probably wouldnt have made the payments on 
his credit card.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr H was 
to blame for what happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or 
any harm. I do not think Mr H could have foreseen the risk that the companies he 
was dealing with were scammers and the trading account he was viewing was likely 
to be a simulation. And as Barclays has pointed out, there were no regulatory 
warnings in place about the brokers at the time Mr H started making the payments. 
So, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on 
the basis that Mr H should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
(1) Refund Mr H the loss incurred from his credit card as a result of the payments he 
made as part of the scam, and rework his account to reimburse any interest and 
charges levied as a result, as though the payments had not taken place.
(2) Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payments Mr H made towards the credit 
balance as a result of the scam, from the date he paid them to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman