DRN-4186827
The complaint
Ms T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc isnt complying to a family court order which states 
that her ex-husbands name should be removed from the mortgage.
What happened
Ive intentionally confined my summary of this complaint to a minimum. The background and 
facts of this case are of a sensitive nature. Our decisions are published, and its important 
that I dont include any information that might result in Ms T being identified.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms T and HSBC. Our investigator 
has also issued a comprehensive response to the complaint setting out its background in 
more detail, which has been shared with all parties, and so I trust I need not repeat the 
details here.
Ms T owns a property with her ex-husband (who Ill refer to as X). The property is mortgaged 
through HSBC. 
Ms T describes what sounds like a very difficult relationship with X. I truly empathise with her 
circumstances. Ms T and X got divorced following a relationship breakdown.
During divorce proceedings the Family court initially ruled that the property in question be 
sold. X was ordered to make the contractual mortgage payments until the sale, and he was 
required to indemnify Ms T of any accrued arrears on completion of the sale.
Ms T appealed the outcome of the court ruling and so a subsequent hearing took place in 
April 2022. The court changed the sale order to a trust/transfer of ownership in Ms Ts 
favour. The court order set out several obligations relating to the terms of the trust/transfer. 
As such this court order superseded the previous ruling and any obligations as set out in the 
previous court order.
A few months after, Ms T started to explore the option of a rate switch to make the mortgage 
more affordable for her and to help prevent further arrears from accruing. HSBC said that to 
agree a rate switch it needed both joint account holders consent. 
Ms T complained to HSBC about this. HSBC answered the complaint in September 2022. It 
reviewed its earlier decision and agreed to a backdated rate switch outside its usual policy 
and in light of Ms Ts circumstances.
Ms T brought her complaint to our service in December 2022. Her complaint to us is that 
HSBC is not complying with the court order. To date it hasnt transferred the mortgage solely 
into Ms Ts name. She is worried that as long as the mortgage remains in joint names, 
HSBC will continue to ask for Xs consent to make changes to the mortgage - including 
agreeing a new interest rate when her current rate ends. 
Ms T also complains that despite the marriage dispute marker on the account, HSBC has 
disclosed sensitive information to X without her consent. Ms T described the repercussions 
she says shes suffered as a result of HSBCs actions, that have caused significant distress 
in her personal life.
An investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She found that by HSBC 
disclosing information about Ms Ts intentions on the mortgage to X - it caused a significant 
amount of avoidable distress. She recommended that HSBC pay Ms T £500 compensation 
in the circumstances.
The investigator explained the process necessary to (i) remove X from the property title 
deeds through an application with land registry and (ii) apply for the mortgage to be 
transferred into Ms Ts sole name. 
She explained that Ms T would need to seek legal advice to remove X from the title deeds. 
HSBC wont have any involvement in that. HSBC should however consider an application 
from Ms T to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. The investigator explained it would 
be necessary, as part of the application process, for HSBC to ensure the mortgage 
payments were affordable for Ms T. She acknowledged several income and expenditure 
(I&E) assessments had taken place to date  but those were to accommodate payment 
arrangements rather than in the context of assessing affordability of a sole mortgage. It still 
remained for Ms T to apply for the mortgage to be transferred into her sole name - in order to 
remove X.
The investigator was satisfied that HSBC had provided the right level of support to help Ms T 
in the circumstances  by referring her to dedicated support teams and agreeing payment 
arrangements to make payments more affordable for her. HSBC agreed to a lower interest 
rate switch with only Ms Ts consent by exception. Albeit the investigator acknowledged the 
process took too long and the disclosure of information linked to this was the reason she 
awarded compensation. 
Regarding the arrears on the account, the investigator explained that the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage set out that, in the case of a joint mortgage, both borrowers are 
joint and severally liable for the debt. The court order deals solely with issues between Mr T 
and X. The order issues no instructions to HSBC. The investigator concluded that HSBC is 
entitled to pursue both joint mortgage account holders for payment of the outstanding 
arrears. That said, HSBC should take into account what it knows about Ms Ts 
circumstances when considering the impact of the arrears on her application for a sole 
mortgage. Although, she made it clear that did not mean that she could influence HSBCs 
decision making or guarantee a successful application. 
The investigator encouraged the parties to engage about next steps and she said that HSBC 
should continue to acknowledge the sensitive nature of Ms Ts case and deal with her 
account and requests for support accordingly. 
HSBC accepted the investigators view, Ms T didnt. She provided detailed submissions in 
response. Ive summarised the key points as:
HSBC has mis-led Ms T into thinking her transfer of equity was in process. It has 
asked her to complete endless I&Es but after over 18 months shes no closer to the 
mortgage being transferred into her sole name  which continues to impact her ability 
to make independent changes to the mortgage without Xs involvement/consent.
HSBC has harassed her with constant requests for I&Es and notifications of 
payment increases on the mortgage which HSBC is responsible for by putting her on 
a tracker interest rate.She doesnt think £500 fairly compensates her in the circumstances. HSBCs actions 
have led to X committing a defamation of character impacting her personal and work 
life  limiting her ability to develop in her career. She also says that the time spent 
adhering to HSBCs unreasonable requests for I&Es has led to lost hours and pay at 
work. 
Our investigator considered Ms Ts points but explained why her opinion remained 
unchanged. Ms T remained unhappy and asked for her case to be decided by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained, due to the sensitive nature of this case Ive gone into little detail about the 
surrounding facts or the specifics of Ms T and Xs relationship. Although I have carefully 
considered those facts and I do recognise that they carried weight in the divorce 
proceedings and is what led to the court making the order it did. 
I have carefully considered all the submissions from both parties. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint or to avoid disclosing any information in this published decision 
that could lead to the identification of Ms T. 
Im very sorry to hear about Ms Ts situation and everything shes endured over the years. 
I can see from what she has said that shes been through and continues to go through a very 
difficult time and I empathise with her circumstances.
What I must consider is whether HSBC has treated Ms T fairly, taking into account 
everything it knows about her circumstances. 
By the time this complaint was brought to our service Ms Ts complaint regarding her inability 
to secure a new rate had been resolved. HSBC agreed to make the change without Xs 
consent as an exception and it backdated the new product accordingly for Ms T. As this 
matter has been resolved, I wont comment on it further. 
However Ms T remains unhappy that HSBC copied X into an email responding to her 
enquiry about the rate switch. And, shes unhappy with the compensation awarded to date. 
Ms T also complains that HSBC is taking too long to transfer the mortgage into her sole 
name. 
Ive considered each of these matters in turn. In doing so, I agree with the outcome our 
investigator has reached and largely for the same reasons. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Ms T, but I hope my reasoning explains why. 
Transfer of title and transfer of mortgage into Ms Ts sole name
Ms T has provided HSBC with copies of both court orders issued. She says shes been 
waiting since the outcome of the court hearings for HSBC to do what the court has ordered. 
The initial court order states that:
 
the property in question should be sold and [X] will, be solely responsible for and in 
any event indemnify [Ms T] against all futurerepayments due in respect of the mortgageand indemnify [Ms T] against any arrears accrued upon completion of the 
sale.
The order issues no instructions to HSBC (nor would I expect a Family court order to do so) 
and deals solely with issues between Ms T and X. The court order provides no basis on 
which HSBC would be required not to continue to hold Ms T joint and severally liable for the 
mortgage payments or the accrued arrears. On that basis, I cannot conclude that it was 
unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to expect either account holder to maintain the mortgage 
payments including repayment of the arrears accrued.
The court order was superseded following an appeal from Ms T. The court order was varied 
from a sale order to a trust/transfer in Ms Ts favour.
The subsequent court order states that:
[Ms T] may deal with [the property] as sole beneficiary including possessionand 
renting. [Ms T] shall use her reasonable endeavours to procure the release of [X] from 
any liability under the mortgage and shall in any event indemnify [X] against all such 
liability accruing from the making of this order. [X] shall remain liable under the 
mortgage and shall in any event indemnify the respondent against all such liability 
accrued up to the making of this order. [X] shall transfer to [Ms T] all his interest in [the 
property] on condition that he is released from the mortgage. In default of [X] failing to 
sign or execute any document necessary to affect the transfer, the documents shall be 
signed or executed by a District Judgeon behalf of [X].
Once again, the order issues no instructions to HSBC to automatically transfer the mortgage 
into Ms Ts name. What it does say in simple terms is that X is responsible for payments due 
under the mortgage up until the date of the order. Ms T is liable for payments due from the 
date of the court order. It is Ms Ts responsibility to apply for the mortgage to be transferred 
into her sole name. Once released from the mortgage, X is to transfer all his interest in the 
property to Ms T (by way of a transfer of title). If X does not comply with the transfer of title, 
the District Judge will sign or execute the necessary documents on his behalf. 
Based on the information available to me, I can see that Ms T has been in discussions with 
HSBC about transferring the mortgage into her sole name. Adding or removing a borrower 
on a mortgage requires varying the existing contract. As such, its necessary for Ms T to 
complete a mortgage application in her own name. And, as part of the process its 
reasonable for HSBC to assess whether the mortgage is affordable for her on her own.
Ms T complains that HSBC is responsible for delaying an application to transfer the 
mortgage into her sole name and that shes been disadvantaged as a result.
It's unclear to me why an application has not been made to date. Its clear its Ms Ts 
intention to transfer the mortgage into her own name and HSBC is aware of that and open to 
an application. That said, Im not persuaded Ms T has been impacted to the extent she says. 
Ms T says shes unhappy with her current interest rate and as long as the mortgage remains 
in joint names she cant switch her current interest rate without Xs consent. 
In September 2022 Ms T agreed to a variable rate, which as set out in her offer is 1.89% 
above the Bank of England base rate, currently 2.25%, for 1 year [the Tracker Rate period] 
to give a current rate payable of 4.14%, followed by the HSBC Standard Variable rate, 
currently 5.04%, for the remaining term of the loan. Ms T is unhappy that the interest rate on her mortgage is increasing, as are her monthly 
payments. This is the nature of the tracker interest rate she agreed to which is linked to the 
Bank of England base rate. I note Ms T appears to be unhappy with the advice she received 
in September 2022 to take this type of product. This is not a complaint that shes yet raised 
with HSBC and so not something I can fairly comment on in this decision, without HSBC first 
having the chance to respond to that complaint. 
I must also note that HSBC is required, under regulation, to write to its customers when their 
interest rate/payments change. So I dont agree it has been acting unfairly by writing to Ms T 
about these changes to her mortgage, as she suggests.
In respect of the Transfer of Title, or in other words, removing X from the property deeds, 
Ms T would need to engage a solicitor to make the appropriate application with the Land 
Registry. HSBC would have no involvement in that process. Ms T might benefit from getting 
some independent legal advice about the next steps to do that.
A Transfer of Title and a mortgage application are two separate things  both of which 
require Ms T to take action to (i) submit a mortgage application with HSBC to remove X from 
the mortgage and (ii) seek legal advice to submit a Transfer of Title with Land Registry to 
remove X from the title deeds. 
Ive explained why Im satisfied HSBC was under no obligation to automatically make any 
changes to the mortgage or the Title deeds in response to the court order.
Lastly, Ive considered everything Ms T has said about the need to complete several I&Es to 
date. I consider that to be part of the usual process required by a lender to understand a 
customers circumstances when deciding the most suitable option of helping them during a 
period of financial difficulty. In this case HSBC has asked Ms T to complete I&Es on a 
regular basis to agree and assess the affordability of ongoing payment arrangements. So I 
dont find it has acted unfairly in that respect. 
Disclosure of information to X 
HSBC accepts that it incorrectly disclosed information about Ms Ts request for a new 
interest rate to X. What I need to decide is whether the £500 awarded to date fairly 
compensates Ms T in the circumstances.
When making an award for compensation, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both
sides involved, giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I also think
its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate
consumers - not punish organisations.
When Ms T asked for a new interest rate, she says that HSBC emailed her, but also copied 
in X about this. This was despite HSBC knowing the history between Ms T and X. Ms T says 
that as a direct result, this prompted X to make contact online and she received abuse and 
online trolling. She reported this behaviour to the police. But was left in severe distress.
Im very sorry to hear this happened to Ms T and I do feel HSBC should have taken steps to 
protect Ms Ts privacy in the circumstances.
HSBC is aware of the marital dispute between Ms T and X. HSBC has it recorded on its 
system to not disclose certain information to X. When Ms T asked HSBC for a rate switch, 
HSBC should have responded directly to Ms T, as the person making the enquiry  given 
what it knew about the nature of the relationship between her and X. I appreciate that, at this point, HSBC felt it needed both parties consent to agree a rate switch. But thats something 
it could have told Ms T without copying in X.
I dont doubt that this situation caused Ms T significant distress and inconvenience. 
Its also evident a different set of sensitive circumstances apply here. Circumstances, that 
Im persuaded HSBC has taken into consideration when accepting to pay this level of 
compensation award. I say this because in normal circumstances I wouldnt expect HSBC to 
award such an amount for a mistake of this extent. 
However, I dont think its fair to hold HSBC responsible for everything that happened 
following its mistake. I say this because much of the consequences explained by Ms T
are too far detached from the mistake in question. I dont think the chain of events that 
occurred was a reasonably foreseeable result of the error. Im very sorry to hear about 
everything Ms T has been through, but I dont think HSBC could have foreseen X would 
have responded in such a way to an email of that nature. 
Putting things right
Having considered everything, I think a compensation award of £500 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Ms T 
£500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman