DRN-2141698
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy with the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) offered after accepting their claim for accidental damage.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C had a joint policy with Lloyds for home insurance, including accidental 
damage. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr C throughout my decision.
Lloyds accepted Mr Cs claim for accidental damage to his carpet caused by a food spillage. 
The stain couldnt be removed. 
Lloyds provided a settlement offer which was a replacement carpet, or vouchers for a carpet 
retailer, or cash. But Mr C didnt think any of the options put him back in a position as if the 
accident had never happened. He complained to Lloyds about the value of the vouchers and 
cash settlement, but it thought its offer was fair. However, Lloyds offered a payment of £50 
as an apology for its first two offers which had calculation mistakes. Mr C didnt accept the 
payment.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Lloyds had made a fair 
settlement offer in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that two considerations hadnt been addressed:
the choice of replacement product offered, and 
the retail value of the vouchers and cash.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I realise this is not the outcome he had hoped 
for, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr Cs policy is there to cover him against an insured loss  in this case his damaged carpet. 
Lloyds responsibility under the policy is to put Mr C back into the position he was in before 
the damage to his carpet, where possible. The terms of the policy set out how Lloyds should 
do this:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest equivalent 
less any discounts obtainable.
So, Ive looked at the two main issues Mr C raised to see whether Lloyds settlement offer is 
in line with the policy terms.
Replacement product
Mr C says that Lloyds hasnt offered to replace his carpet on a like-for-like basis. Ive looked 
at the description of the replacement carpet it offered and the description of Mr Cs damaged 
carpet. The description is the same (80/20 twist) and I cant see any evidence to suggest the 
replacement offered is of an inferior quality. 
Ive also compared the retail price of the carpets described on Lloyds preferred retailers 
website and Mr Cs quote to see whether there is a significant difference in what he was 
expecting Lloyds to provide. Mr Cs quote doesnt include a description of the carpet so the 
price per square metre, including sundries, fitting and removal, is the only available factor to 
compare. Based on this information, it seems that Mr Cs preferred retailer has quoted for a 
more superior carpet because the cost is around half as much again as that quoted by 
Lloyds preferred retailer. 
I realise the cost isnt necessarily the key factor in deciding whether the replacement carpet 
offered is a reasonable match. But, beyond the description of the carpet as an 80/20 twist, 
there seems to be little else to compare. So, given that Lloyds offered to replace Mr Cs 
damaged carpet with a similar carpet, I cant agree that it failed to make an offer on a like-
for-like basis. 
Retail value of vouchers and cash
As an alternative to replacing the carpet, Lloyds also offered Mr C the option to have his 
claim settled by retail voucher or cash. However, Mr C doesnt think Lloyds offered him 
enough to allow him to buy a replacement carpet of the same quality. 
Ive looked at whether it would be possible to buy a similar carpet and I think, at a stretch, it 
would. But that doesnt matter here because under the terms of the policy, Lloyds need not 
offer the full cash or voucher cost for Mr C to replace the carpet himself. Thats because it 
has already made a reasonable offer to replace the carpet with one reasonably matched 
which would cover Mr Cs loss and, apart from his policy excess, at no cost to him.
So, overall, I think Lloydss offer to settle Mr Cs claim with a replacement carpet, vouchers 
or cash is in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr C raised a further point about whether the settlement offer is fair, and he questioned 
whether Lloyds has handled his claim in line with what this service would expect. I think it 
has.
The reason Mr C questioned this is because Lloyds offered vouchers to a value less than the 
retail cost of the replacement carpet. The cash settlement offer was lower still. So if Mr C 
chose the cash or voucher option, he would struggle to replace his carpet on a like-for-like 
basis. I can see why that might seem unfair to Mr C, but I must be fair to both sides.
Lloyds will get a discount on the retail cost of the carpet. So if it replaces Mr Cs carpet it 
wont cost it the same as it would cost Mr C if he bought it himself. This doesnt matter if Mr 
C accepts Lloyds replacement offer because he will have a new carpet and Lloyds will have 
covered his loss. 
If Mr C rejects its offer to replace, it must offer a cash or voucher alternative. But, because it 
has already offered to cover Mr Cs loss in full, it wouldnt be fair to Lloyds to pay more to 
him than it wouldve cost it to replace the carpet. So Lloyds cash offer is the same as it wouldve cost it to buy and replace the carpet at its discounted rate. Mr C may not be able to 
replace his carpet for that amount, but the replacement offer was made available to him. 
The voucher is a higher amount than the cash offer because Lloyds will also get a discount 
on buying retail vouchers. So, again, it is costing Lloyds the same amount as it wouldve 
done to replace the carpet, but Mr C gets more to spend at the preferred retailer, albeit 
possibly not the full cost of the carpet to him. 
I understand Mr C still thinks this is unfair because his expectation is that the vouchers or 
cash should cover the full retail cost. However, I would only expect that to be the case if 
Lloyds hadnt also offered a reasonably matched replacement. So, if Lloyds chose to pay 
cash or vouchers instead of replacing, it wouldve had to put Mr C into the position of being 
able to replace his carpet at no additional cost to him. Here, Mr C has asked for the cash 
option so it wouldnt be fair for that to cost Lloyds more.
Ill briefly mention the calculation errors. Theres no dispute that Lloyds twice made mistakes 
when it told Mr C how much the cash and voucher settlements would be. However, it did 
provide the correct figures when Mr C questioned the calculations and it offered £50 by way 
of apology. I think that was fair. Lloyds told Mr C the offer is still available so, if he wishes to 
accept it, he should contact Lloyds directly.
So, looking back at what the policy says, Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly offered to settle 
Mr Cs claim in line with the terms  it has offered to replace the carpet or pay the cost of a 
nearest equivalent replacement less its discounts. I can see no reason to ask it to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman