DRN-3084156
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Zurich Insurance PLC caused damage to her driveway whilst dealing 
with a claim about a soakaway drain, under her home building insurance.
References to Zurich in my decision include its agents and contractors. 
What happened
Mrs H made a claim to Zurich in July 2020. Repair work was carried out to resolve an issue 
with a downpipe and soakaway. Significant groundworks were required. In April 2021 a 
heavy truck was driven onto her driveway and this caused extensive cracking to the 
concrete. 
Zurich accepted responsibility. It agreed to the repair the damaged section of the driveway. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with the repair offer. She didnt think a satisfactory repair was possible 
and wanted a new driveway. She obtained quotes to replace the driveway which came in at 
approximately £3,000. 
Zurich said it would carry out repairs to the sections of the driveway it had damaged or pay a 
£1,500 contribution, should Mrs H want to use a different contactor and/or carry out more 
extensive repairs. It also offered a goodwill payment of £150. Mrs H wasnt satisfied with this 
and referred to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She says the cracks caused to the driveway by the 
truck were very evident and needed repairing. The photos supplied showed the driveway 
had a crack in 2015, which had since been made far worse by the truck. Our investigator 
thought that although the driveway wasnt in perfect condition, it was usable. She didnt think 
Zurich needed to provide a new driveway, but that it should repair the damaged sections and 
ensure overall it has a uniform appearance. Alternatively, it should provide a contribution of 
£2,000 if Mrs H wanted to use her own choice of contractor.      
Mrs H and Zurich didnt agree. Further discussions took place, but they were unable to come 
to an agreement. It was requested that an ombudsman review the complaint. It has now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. My reasoning is broadly the 
same as our investigators, which I expect will come as a disappointment to both parties. 
But I will explain why I think this is fair.
Zurich accepts liability for the damage its contractor caused when a 16-tonne truck was 
backed onto Mrs Hs driveway. There is no dispute over this. My role is to consider whether 
Zurich has treated her fairly in relation to the damage it caused. 
The damage was caused in April 2021 and several photos have been supplied showing this. 
The driveway is constructed of concrete and is divided into three sections, with expansion 
gaps in-between each section  as confirmed by Zurichs contractor. Two of these sections, 
those closest to the house, have deep cracks running through them. The middle section is 
the worst affected. It can be seen where the trucks stabiliser has been in contact with the 
driveway and the surface has dropped leaving it significantly cracked and uneven.  
Earlier photos have been supplied showing the condition of the driveway prior to the incident 
in April 2021. A street view from 2015 shows a crack is visible in the middle section. This 
follows the same line as the crack caused in April 2021. Zurichs says this shows the 
driveway was in a poor condition prior to its truck driving onto it, and that the most significant 
crack was already present, albeit this has now been made much worse. 
Zurich also points to a timestamped photo from August 2020. This shows the crack visible in 
the street view, but its now much wider and more pronounced. It says this is further proof of 
the crack existing prior to the damage its truck caused. 
I understand Mrs H spoke to our investigator about this photo. She says this was taken at a 
time when other heavy vehicles relating to her claim with Zurich, had parked on the 
driveway. Mrs H points to a pile of waste material next to the driveway, showing in the photo, 
as evidence of heavy work taking place around this time, which caused the crack to get 
worse.
Having considered all this, I think its fair to say the driveway wasnt in a good condition and 
probably will have required maintenance or replacement in the near future. Mrs H confirms it 
was constructed around 35 years ago. I note there is evidence of some cracking to the 
surface prior to April 2021 and areas where grass is growing through the expansion gaps. 
That said, prior to the incident with the truck, the driveway was perfectly usable and safe for 
parking cars on and walking over. The same cant be said now  given the extent of the 
damage caused.  
The guiding principal I must apply here is that Mrs H is put back in the position she was in, 
prior to the damage occurring. She had a usable driveway, which now she doesnt. I agree 
with Zurich that its appropriate for it to carry out works to replace the two damaged sections 
of the driveway. However, Mrs H is concerned this will leave a mis-match with the remaining 
section that isnt damaged. She is concerned this will be unsightly and affect the value of her 
house.
I note our investigator discussed Zurich applying a skim finish to the remaining section of 
concrete, to allow for a uniform appearance to the driveway. It didnt agree as it was only 
prepared to repair the damage it had caused, and not pay for improvements. 
I have thought about whether its fair for only the damaged sections to be replaced. 
If this was the case, Mrs H would be in a worse position than she was prior to the damage. 
Originally, she had a usable driveway with a uniform finish. Using this approach, the 
driveway would have two matching sections and one section closest to the street that didnt 
match. I dont think this is a fair outcome. But I also think it would be unfair to ask Zurich to 
replace the undamaged section of driveway. 
In these circumstances I think a fair outcome is for Zurich to replace the damaged sections 
but ensure a uniform finish is in place over the whole driveway. Alternatively, I think a 
payment of £2,000 is a reasonable contribution, should Mrs H want to seek a similar 
outcome using her own choice of contractor. I note Mrs H was concerned the same 
contractors employed by Zurich would complete the work  but it has made clear it will use different contractors to do this, which I think is fair. 
I understand a payment of £150 has been provided by Zurich as a goodwill payment. If not, 
this should be provided. I think this is appropriate to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs H has been caused. 
I summary I dont think Zurich treated Mrs H fairly in dealing with the damage it had caused, 
and it should now replace the damaged sections, leaving a uniform finish to the driveway or 
provide a payment of £2,000 toward the cost of another contractor doing the work.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Zurich Insurance PLC should:
replace the damaged sections leaving a uniform finish for the whole driveway, or
provide a payment of £2,000 toward the cost of another contractor completing the 
work. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman