DRN-3468130
The complaint
Mr L complains about the length of time it takes for him to receive post from Lloyds Bank Plc 
when sending him a personal identification number (PIN) for his online banking relating to 
his current account.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr L was using his laptop when he noticed his mouse control had been 
taken over and sums of money were being transferred to payees from his Lloyds bank 
account. 
Mr L contacted Lloyds who were able to stop the payments. However, they told him that they 
would send him a security PIN in the post so he could access his account again. Mr L 
received the PIN, but he says it took too long for this to be received  it took around 12 days. 
Mr L contacted Lloyds again as he said he had issues using the PIN and they said they were 
sending him another PIN. This PIN took seven days to arrive which Mr L finds too long. 
Mr L says he isnt happy with the length of time it takes for him to receive post from Lloyds. 
Mr L says he was told the PIN would be sent in first class mail, but it took a long time to 
receive.
Lloyds responded to Mr Ls complaint. They accepted that the first PIN shouldnt have taken 
as long as it did to be received. Although the second PIN was received within the timescales 
it would have expected. To apologise for the delay in the first PIN being sent, Lloyds paid Mr 
L £50.
Mr L contacted Lloyds again as he didnt think the compensation was enough. He told Lloyds 
that he thought that £500 was more reasonable. However, Lloyds increased the 
compensation award by a further £50.
Mr L again wasnt happy with this and contacted Lloyds a further time. Lloyds recognised 
that Mr L had been inconvenienced by the delay in PIN being received. It confirmed that as 
they PIN wasnt sent recorded, it didnt know what had caused the delay  its possible this 
could be down to their error, or a delay in the postal service at the time. Lloyds offered Mr L 
a further £200 to compensate him  so £300 in total. 
Mr L was still unhappy with Lloyds actions. He didnt feel that it was good practice for Lloyds 
not to send post by first class mail, that there were no timescales for the mail to be received 
and that the delay in him receiving the post had caused him distress and embarrassment.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint, but they didnt uphold it. The Investigator 
thought that the £300 Lloyds had already offered was a fair way to put things right for Mr L  
and explained the reasons why.
Mr L didnt agree. He stated that he wanted Lloyds to change its policy on how it sends mail, 
and for letters of importance to be sent by first class post. He also reiterated the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him when he wasnt able to access his account. 
Because Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Lloyds has already agreed that it shouldnt have taken 12 days for the first PIN to have been 
received. Lloyds has confirmed that there is no way of it being able to tell why the delivery of 
the PIN was delayed. However, it has accepted that its possible the delay could have been 
down to something it had done wrong. Although Lloyds has said this, I have noted that its 
entirely possible that the delays could be down to the postal service  something I generally 
wouldnt hold Lloyds responsible for. 
The second PIN took seven days to arrive  generally the timescale for mail from Lloyds to 
be received by the recipient would be around five working days. Given that the second PIN 
was received in this time, I dont find that Lloyds did anything wrong here. 
I appreciate that Mr Ls main concerns are that Lloyds chooses not to send post by first 
class. This is a commercial decision that has been made by Lloyds  and it isnt generally 
the role of this service to get involved in such commercial decisions. For this reason, I wont 
be asking Lloyds to start sending post by first class mail, as Mr L has requested. 
I appreciate that Mr L says he has been greatly impacted by not being able to access his 
accounts during the time he was waiting for the PIN. And I can understand it must have been 
a frustrating and worrying time for him  especially given that his accounts had only very 
recently been hacked. 
So, I will now decide if this is a fair amount to compensate Mr L  and I think it is. From what 
Ive seen, Mr L hasnt been impacted financially as a result of what Lloyds has done wrong  
what I mean by this is that Lloyds hasnt caused him a financial loss. So the compensation 
award relates to the distress and inconvenience Lloyds actions caused him.
Its worth noting here that this service doesnt award compensation in line with what 
someone might earn a day  or how much profit Lloyds might be able to make in a day  as 
Mr L has suggested. Our website gives examples of different levels of compensation that 
this service will likely award in certain example scenarios  these are a helpful guide for all 
parties when considering what might be fair compensation. Ive thought about this in the 
context of the impact Lloyds actions had on Mr L. And in doing so, I think the most relevant 
compensation award is the one below:
If an error has caused the consumer more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you 
might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just 
minimal, then an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
An award between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
It isnt in dispute that Mr L has been caused distress and inconvenience when he couldnt 
access his bank account online  this isnt surprising given the reason he was waiting for his 
PIN. The impact on Mr L lasted around three weeks. While I appreciate Mr Ls strength of 
feeling in what he says Lloyds has done wrong and the reasons why he should get more 
compensation. I havent seen anything that persuades me the impact of what Lloyds 
potentially did wrong should warrant a higher compensation award. It follows that I dont 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. And I wont be asking Lloyds to do more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman