DRN-3991345
The complaint
Miss M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter last month, part of which is copied below:
Miss M renewed her car insurance policy with Advantage in February 2022. In May 2022 
she called Advantage to say her car had been stolen, although she didnt want to make a 
claim. Advantage cancelled Miss Ms policy and refunded her premiums from the date of 
cancellation. It said it cancelled the policy because Miss M had said she used the car for her 
job as a delivery courier, and she didnt have business insurance to cover her for that. 
Miss M complained. She said shed only contacted Advantage to notify them of the incident, 
not to make a claim. And Advantage had then cancelled her policy even though it was aware 
she used her car to deliver parcels. She was now faced with higher premiums to insure her 
new car, while still dealing with the financial impact of having her old car stolen.
Advantage said it was obliged to record an incident when it was reported to them. And it had 
closed the claim as notification only. It said it had cancelled her policy as her policy only 
covered her for social, domestic, pleasure and commuting. It said it wouldnt have provided 
insurance had it known Miss M used the car for delivery or courier use. Miss M wasnt happy 
with this response so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be partly upheld. She thought it was 
reasonable for Advantage to end Miss Ms policy. But rather than cancel it and give her a 
partial refund, she thought Advantage should avoid the policy and refund all of Miss Ms 
premiums. She also thought Advantage should remove the cancellation markers on Miss Ms 
records and show the policy as having been avoided instead. 
Miss M accepted the investigators findings. But Advantage disagreed as it thought it had 
treated Miss M fairly. So, the complaint has been forwarded to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer doesnt do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she didnt disclose that she used her car for delivering parcels. Miss M points out that 
she told Advantage her job was a delivery courier. And I can see from her policy documents 
that this is what Advantage had recorded. But I dont think that would necessarily mean she 
uses her own car for that purpose. And I dont think it would be fair to expect Advantage to 
pick that up as a discrepancy or contradiction that should prompt further questions. 
Miss M also said she told Advantage she delivered parcels when she called in January 2022 
to renew her policy. At the same time, she said she paid separately for insurance through 
the people she worked for. Miss M thinks Advantage should have pursued this further at the 
time and asked whether she used the car for work. Ive listened to that call and I can confirm 
this is what she said. But the call handler also asked Miss M whether she was using the car 
just for social use and she replied yes. And on balance I think it was Miss Ms responsibility 
in this call to confirm what she used the car for. If she was using the car for more than just 
social use, I think its fair to have expected her to say so.
After Miss M renewed her insurance over the phone, Advantage sent her the policy 
documents. As Ive said, the statement of insurance recorded Miss Ms occupation as 
delivery courier. But the cover summary records the class of use as Social, domestic, 
pleasure and commuting. This was another opportunity for Miss M to have told Advantage 
that this wasnt correct as she used the car to deliver parcels. So, taking all of this together, I 
dont think Miss M took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Because I dont think Miss M took reasonable care, I now need to look at what Advantage 
would have done if shed answered its questions correctly and disclosed that she used her 
car for delivering parcels. Advantage has shown us its underwriting guidance. And Im 
satisfied from that information that it wouldnt have offered insurance to Miss M had it known 
she was using her car to deliver parcels. 
Since I dont think Miss M took reasonable care when she renewed the policy, and as 
Advantage has shown it wouldnt have offered a policy to her had she disclosed the 
business use, I think Miss Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation for the 
purposes of CIDRA.
So, in line with CIDRA, I now need to look at whether Miss Ms misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, or careless. It would be deliberate of reckless if Miss M knew the 
information she provided was untrue or misleading, or she didnt care if it was untrue or 
misleading. Advantage hasnt tried to argue that Miss Ms misrepresentation was deliberate 
of reckless and so I think its fair to say it was careless. 
CIDRA says that if the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can only avoid the 
contract if it wouldnt have offered it on any terms. Advantage has shown that it wouldnt 
have offered insurance to Miss M if shed made it aware she used the car for delivering 
parcels. So, this is why our investigator recommended that Advantage avoid Miss Ms policy 
and refund her all the premiums that were owed. 
But Advantage doesnt have to avoid the contract. If no claim is made, it can choose to 
cancel the policy. This is because where theres been no claim CIDRA says that the 
remedies available to the insurer dont affect the insurers contractual rights to cancel the 
policy. So, as long as the insurer chooses to cancel the policy in line with its terms, its 
entitled to do that. The terms of Miss Ms policy say Advantage is within its rights to cancel the policy if the policy holder doesnt keep to the terms and conditions of the policy in any 
significant way. And so, taken together, Im satisfied Advantage is entitled to cancel Miss Ms 
policy rather than avoid it. 
Summary
I recognise that this is all rather technical from Miss Ms point of view. Our investigator 
thought Advantage should have avoided her policy while I think it acted fairly in deciding to 
cancel her policy. Either way, Miss M would have needed to declare the cancellation or 
avoidance to future insurers and that will no doubt have an impact on the cost of that 
insurance. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to 
cancel Miss Ms policy in these particular circumstances and refund her premiums from the 
date of cancellation. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M wasnt happy with my provisional decision. Advantage didnt respond. Miss M said 
she has business insurance through her work and only needed insurance through 
Advantage to cover her for social and domestic, pleasure and commuting. She said shed 
asked all the couriers she worked with if their insurers knew what they used their cars for 
and none of them said they do. She also said nobody advised them to tell their own insurers 
about their circumstances, even though she said she did tell hers. Miss M thought my 
provisional decision was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence again, including the points made by Miss M, Im not 
persuaded to change my findings.
I cant comment on what Miss Ms colleagues are doing. My role is to look at whether 
Advantage treated her fairly. And, as I said in my provisional decision, I think it was fair for 
Advantage to cancel her insurance policy as she didnt disclose she was using her car for 
more than social, domestic, pleasure and commuting. Advantage wouldnt have offered 
Miss M insurance had it known she was using her car to deliver parcels
I dont dispute that Miss M said she delivered parcels when she spoke to Advantage in 
January 2022. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I think it was fair to have expected 
her to have told Advantage she was using her car for more than social use, both in that 
telephone call and when she received her policy documents. 
Im sorry to hear of the problems Miss M has experienced. But, having reviewed the 
evidence, Im satisfied Advantage handled this matter fairly and reasonably. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman