DRN-4236578
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) said she needed to make
multiple claims with multiple excesses under her commercial property insurance policy,
rather than treating all the damage as one claim with one excess.
What happened
Mrs B owns a property which she let out to a tenant. When the tenant vacated the property
Mrs B discovered damage to the front door and two windows, so she contacted UKI, her
commercial property insurer, to make a claim.
UKI said that as there was damage to the door and two separate windows, three claims
would need to be made, each with a separate excess payable. UKI said each window claim
would attract a £100 excess, and the door claim would have a £200 excess.
As Mrs B was unhappy with UKIs position she approached this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She said that the policy terms said
that only one claim would need to be made if it was from the same cause. So, she said UKI
should consider the claim as one malicious damage claim, with one policy excess.
UKI agreed that only one claim should now be registered and said that they would consider it
in this way. But, UKI said this is because Mrs B had now provided a different version of what
caused the damage, which now allowed them to consider it one incident in line with the
terms. UKI disagreed that they treated Mrs Bs claim(s) incorrectly when she contacted them
to discuss the loss.
Our investigator didnt agree. She said regardless of the new version of what happened
being provided, she said UKI should still have treated it as one claim from the outset.
UKI didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach the same overall outcome as our investigator, but there were some 
additional things I thought UKI needed to do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties the opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as our investigator. But there 
are additional things Im minded to direct UKI to do to put things right. Therefore, Im 
issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
initial findings before I reach my final decision.
After the tenant had vacated Mrs Bs property, she discovered damage had been 
caused to the front door and two separate windows. When discussing this with UKI, 
they advised that this would be three separate claims, with a £200 excess for the 
door, and £100 for each window.
Our investigator asked Mrs B how the damage had occurred, and she said:
Unfortunately as I wasnt at the property and didnt speak with the tenant 
before he left I only know what the neighbours have told me. (Tenant name) 
had a disagreement with someone about money and it ended in a fight at the 
property. The door was kicked in and windows broken. The police were called 
but no arrests made.
Mrs Bs policy covers malicious damage. It also covers malicious damage by tenants 
as a policy extension. However, here I dont think the extension is the part required to 
claim under, as from the above, it was someone else rather than the tenant that 
caused the damage maliciously.
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs policy terms and conditions, and in particular the 
part Ive highlighted below:
Excess
This Section does not cover and We will not be liable for the amount of the 
Section Excess stated in the Schedule being the first part of each and every 
claim, for Damage caused by any of the following Contingencies:
A Contingencies 6,7,8, 9,12 and 15.
B Contingency 10.
C Contingency 14.
All claims or series of claims, arising out of any one original cause, will 
be treated as one claim.
The investigator said that as the claim was for malicious damage (contingency six), it 
was one cause, and in line with the above term, she said that UKI should have 
treated the claim as one with one excess applicable, rather than multiple.
UKI agreed that it would now be one claim for malicious damage rather than three. 
But they said this was on the basis of the new information about what happened from 
Mrs B, which she hadnt told them about before. And they didnt think that treating it 
as three separate claims in the first instance, based on what Mrs B reported at that 
time, was incorrect.However, our investigator maintained that it should have been one claim from the 
outset regardless. Having considered everything, Im minded to agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Mrs B made to report the damage to UKI. She explained that 
shed reported the damage to the Police who had told her to contact her insurer. 
Mrs B said the front door appeared to have been kicked in, and two windows had 
been smashed.
UKI said that the front door would be considered as a malicious damage claim, with a 
£200 excess. And they said the windows would be considered under the separate 
glass and sanitary ware part of the policy, and because they were in different rooms, 
they would be different incidents, each with a separate £100 excess. Therefore, UKI 
said it would be one malicious damage claim and two separate glass and sanitary 
ware claims.
However, from the call recording, I think UKI should have considered all three areas 
of damage under malicious damage from the outset, rather than malicious damage 
for the door, and separate accidental damage claims for each of the windows. I say 
this because Mrs B told UKI she had reported all the damage to the Police as 
malicious damage. If Mrs B had only reported the door as malicious damage to the 
Police, then it might have been reasonable to take the approach UKI did in 
considering the windows separately under accidental damage to glass and sanitary 
ware.
Whilst I accept the windows and the door were in different rooms, its not 
unreasonable to assume (as Mrs B did and reported to the Police) that if someone 
had maliciously kicked the door in, then the windows likely had been maliciously 
smashed too. Instead UKI focused on the tenant accidentally damaging the windows 
(separately and on different occasions) and the door being maliciously kicked in 
separately. Whilst Mrs B couldnt know for certain at that point, the fact all had been 
reported to the Police by her as maliciously damaged, I think this is how UKI should 
also have considered the claim from the outset.
UKI has said that the likelihood is that it was caused at separate times, which is also 
why it considered there were multiple incidents and therefore multiple claims. 
However, the policy terms above dont refer to the incidents needing to be the same 
to treat it as one claim, instead they refer to the cause being the same. And Im 
minded to conclude it would have been reasonable to treat all the claims as malicious 
damage from the outset, and therefore that was the cause (regardless of the incident 
being the same or not), so this would only be one claim and excess in line with the 
policy terms.
With this in mind, I dont think UKI acted fairly by advising the damage would be three
claims, with three separate excesses, when Mrs B reported the damage.
Our investigator said UKI should reconsider the claim as one. Im minded to agree 
with this and unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing UKI to consider the reported windows and door claim as one 
malicious damage claim.This is to an extent academic as UKI has agreed to now do this, based on Mrs B 
explaining what had happened to cause the damage. But as I think UKI should have 
done this from the outset, this means I also need to consider the impact not doing so 
had on Mrs B.
Mrs B has had to have repairs completed in the interim rather than pursuing all three 
claims with three excesses. So, in addition to reconsidering the claim as one, Im also 
minded to direct UKI to add 8% simple interest to any cash settlement, from one 
month from the date the claim was made (to take into account a reasonable amount 
of time it would have taken to consider the claim) to date of settlement.
In addition, I also think that Mrs B has been caused additional inconvenience as a 
result of UKI only giving her the option of making three claims - which I dont think 
was fair for the reasons outlined. This has then led to Mrs B paying for all the repairs 
in the interim rather than pursuing multiple claims. Unless anything changes as a 
result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill also be directing UKI to pay 
Mrs B £100 compensation for the additional inconvenience caused.
I also note from the file that Mrs B also contacted UKI two months after reporting the
malicious damage to make an additional claim for replacement carpet as she 
reported it had glass in it as a result of a break-in. At that point UKI said this would be 
a fourth claim, with an additional excess.
As far as Im aware, as Mrs B said this was caused during a break-in, and two 
months after the previous claim, this was a separate theft incident to the malicious 
damage claim above. Therefore, this would, as UKI say, be a separate claim and 
attract a separate excess.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct UKI to consider the reported door 
and windows claim as one malicious damage claim with one excess, and to add 8% simple 
interest to any cash settlement. I was also minded to direct UKI to pay Mrs B £100 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B responded and agreed with the provisional decision.
UKI responded and also agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill to:
Consider the reported door and windows claim as one malicious damage claim with
one excess.
For any cash settlement, add 8% simple interest* from one month from when the
claim was made to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs B £100 compensation.
* If U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman