DRN-1767262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
unfairly declined a claim for critical illness benefit under their joint term assurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint term assurance policy providing life and critical illness benefits 
on 1 March 2002. The policy cover ended on 28 February 2019.
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs B submitted a claim for critical illness benefit for Mrs B due to a 
heart problem. Royal London said it would be considering Mrs Bs eligibility to claim under 
the total and permanent disability (TPD) work tasks definition.
After assessing the claim Royal London declined it, saying Mrs B didnt meet the TPD 
definition before cover under the policy ended. It didnt think the evidence demonstrated 
Mrs B was permanently unable to perform two or more work tasks, as required by the policy 
definition.
Mr and Mrs B complained. They thought Mrs Bs heart condition ought to have been covered 
as a critical illness in its own right. But they also thought the evidence demonstrated her 
illness permanently prevented her from performing the walking and lifting tasks. Royal 
London didnt change its decision, so Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Royal London ought to gather further information in order to decide 
whether Mrs B met the TPD definition. Royal London disagreed so the matter was passed to 
me to make a final decision.
I informed Mr and Mrs B that I didnt think Royal London had acted unfairly by declining the 
claim. I thought it had gathered sufficient evidence to reach a decision and I didnt think the 
evidence showed Mrs B was permanently unable to perform two or more work tasks before 
cover under the policy ended.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They thought the evidence from Mrs Bs GP, which was 
supportive, had been ignored. As no agreement could be reached, Im now providing my 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the response from Mrs B, Im not going to be departing from my earlier 
findings. So, Im not asking Royal London to carry out a further assessment of Mrs Bs claim. 
Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy expired on 28 February 2019. So, in order for the claim to be payable, 
the medical evidence would have to show unequivocally that Mrs B met the following 
definition:
 
Work tasks
 
Becoming permanently disabled:
before age 65;
through illness (other than mental illness of any kind) or injury;
to the extent of becoming unable to do any 2 of the 6 work tasks listed below without 
the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive aids and 
appliances; and
the disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement.
Mrs B believes that the evidence demonstrates she is unable to do the following two tasks:
 
Walking - The ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface with a stick or other aid without 
stopping or severe discomfort.
Lifting - The ability to pick up 1 kg from table height and carry it for 5 metres.
 
Royal London accepts that Mrs B isnt able to carry out the walking task. So, I haven't 
considered this further. The sole issue for me to determine is whether the evidence supports 
that Mrs B was permanently unable to carry out the lifting task before 28 February 2019.
 
I've considered all of the evidence provided, which includes claim forms completed by Mrs B, 
her GP, Cardiologist and Orthopaedic Surgeon and the findings of the Functional Capacity 
Evaluation ('FCE') completed at Royal London's request.
 
Overall, based on the evidence I've seen, I don't think it demonstrates that Mrs B was totally 
unable to perform the lifting task before the policy expired. 
 
When Mrs B submitted her claim form, she included details of all of the medical conditions 
contributing to her disability. She listed cardiomyopathy, hypertension, osteoporosis and 
osteoarthritis. When Royal London turned down Mrs Bs claim, it explained that it didn't think 
the pain she was experiencing in her shoulder and hand was permanent. This was because 
she was due undergo surgery, which was expected to improve her symptoms.
 
I agree with this assessment because the evidence provided by Mrs Bs Orthopaedic 
Surgeon showed her surgery was expected to improve the pain and range of movement in 
her right shoulder and hand. And where treatment is outstanding, a disability cannot be said 
to be permanent until that treatment has taken place and the effects on the disability are 
known.
However, Mrs B wrote to Royal London on 18 June 2019 explaining that the basis for her 
claim was cardiomyopathy only. Mrs B said:
 
"I am unable to lift and carry objects without suffering from the same breathlessness that 
was assessed for the walking work task, but it appears from your letter that the assessment 
for this work task was based entirely on my restrictions and pain that I suffer from as a result 
of my osteoarthritis.The basis of my claim against the policy that my husband and I held was always due to my 
cardiomyopathy, not my osteoarthritis."
 
So, I've considered whether there is sufficient evidence to show that Mrs Bs cardiomyopathy 
permanently prevents her from performing the lifting task.
 
In the claim form completed by Mrs Bs GP, she said Mrs B experienced "breathlessness on 
exertion" and that activities were limited by shortness of breath. When asked specifically 
about the work tasks Mrs Bs GP said, "patient unable to lift/carry due to breathlessness".
Mrs B feels that this evidence should be given more weight than the limited evidence 
provided by her Cardiologist because at the time of the claim, the GP would have been the 
most informed medical professional regarding her ability to lift/carry items. Shes said she 
was seeing her GP in person on an extremely regular basis prior to February 2019 and, for 
this reason, she would have been fully appraised with the tasks she struggled with at that 
time.
I appreciate as Mrs Bs primary care physician, her GP wouldve had a good understanding 
of Mrs Bs reported symptoms. However, this wouldve been based on what Mrs B 
described, rather than being based on objective testing. So, while Ive taken the opinion of 
Mrs Bs GP into account, I have also had to consider whether it supports the specialists 
opinion provided and the results of objective testing.
 
As a specialist in the field of cardiology, I think Mrs Bs treating Cardiologist is best placed to 
describe how her cardiomyopathy affects her. The Cardiologist commented that Mrs B was 
breathless on exertion, but said he couldn't comment on Mrs Bs other limitations as a result 
of her cardiomyopathy. If the breathlessness was having a significant impact on Mrs Bs 
ability to perform everyday activities such as walking and lifting  tasks that wouldnt usually 
require significant strength or fitness  I would've expected this to be reflected in the clinic 
letters and for the Cardiologist to say so in the claim form he returned to Royal London.
An FCE was completed on 30 April 2019. The assessor concluded that Mrs B was able to 
walk for 30-50 metres with the use of her walking stick. He also observed her carrying 
weights equivalent to 1kg. So, he concluded that Mrs B was able to lift and carry this weight 
in each hand. When Mrs B was asked to carry this weight for 5 metres, as per the task 
required, Mrs B said she couldn't. The assessor made the following comments:
 
"If walking, any lifting would be in her left hand as she would be using her right hand for her 
walking stick. Weight limits vary in [Mrs Bs] estimation, depending on the task and whether 
mobility is involved. [Mrs B] estimates that the heaviest thing she carries is a plate.
 
[Mrs B] stated that she cannot carry anything heavy as she uses a stick in her right hand and 
would fear dropping things and that she fears pain in her arms arising from carrying heavy 
weights."
 
Overall the assessor felt that Mrs B didn't carry out this task due to pain avoidance and 
concerns about her balance. However, he couldn't say that Mrs B wouldn't be able to 
complete the lifting task whatsoever.
 
In light of the above, I don't think it was unreasonable for Royal London to turn Mrs Bs claim 
down. While her GP has said she couldn't carry out the lifting task, her Cardiologist couldnt 
say what activities Mrs B would be limited in carrying out. He said Mrs B was breathless on 
exertion, but I dont think demonstrates that Mrs Bs breathlessness would be a barrier to her 
carrying a 1kg weight for five metres. Furthermore, Mrs B was observed by the FCE assessor to have the ability to carry a 1kg weight in both hands. They also noted that Mrs B 
was capable of walking more than five metres. I appreciate that Mrs B was concerned that 
she wouldn't be able to carry the 1kg weight for five metres, but I havent seen objective 
evidence to say that she couldn't.
The only restriction Mrs B mentioned at the time of the assessment was pain in her arms 
and that she was worried about her balance. But I dont think I can take into account any 
pain in Mrs Bs right arm and hand because she was due to undergo surgery. For this 
reason, it couldn't be considered permanent at that stage. And whilst Mrs B has told us she 
underwent surgery on her left shoulder in the past, she hasnt spoken of pain in her left arm 
at the time of the assessment. I appreciate Mrs B is right-hand dominant and she says she 
needs to use her walking stick in this hand, which would prevent her from carrying out the 
lifting task. Whilst being dominant in one hand means that Mrs B might not be comfortable 
using her left hand to hold her walking stick, or carrying a weight, it isnt the same as her 
disability preventing her from doing so, which is the basis for the claim being accepted.
 
Mrs B has commented that she has now undergone surgery on her right shoulder and hand, 
but this was unsuccessful. Although Mrs B acknowledges that this doesnt have an impact 
on her claim, Im nevertheless sorry to hear that it hasnt led to any improvement.
Mrs B remains of the view that the evidence gathered by Royal London was inconclusive, so 
it ought to seek out further evidence to make a final decision on the claim. I appreciate 
Mrs Bs strength of feeling here, but I think Royal London acquired all of the evidence 
necessary to reach a decision. It wrote to Mrs Bs treating physicians and also carried out an 
objective assessment in order to better understand her physical limitations. Overall, I think 
this evidence demonstrated that Mrs B didnt meet the policy definition of TPD before her 
cover ended. However, Mrs B is free to provide further evidence to Royal London to consider 
if she feels it would enable it to reach a different outcome. 
 
Mrs B has also commented that she thought cardiomyopathy would be covered under her 
critical illness policy as it is akin to heart failure. She says they wouldn't have taken the 
policy out if she'd known this. But Royal London didnt sell this policy to Mr and Mrs B, rather 
it was an independent financial adviser (IFA). So, if Mr and Mrs B feel the policy was mis-
sold, they would need to direct this complaint to the IFA that sold the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman