DRN-2377115
The complaint
Mr W says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI).
What happened
Mr W bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 15 October 2020, and said I didnt find 
the PPI had been mis-sold. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
The adjudicator didnt think Mr W wouldve bought the PPI if hed had better 
information about its cost and benefit. Mr W had told us he was entitled to sick pay 
from his employer, and that he had significant savings that he couldve used if things 
went wrong. The adjudicator concluded that the combination of Mr Ws sick pay and 
savings meant it was unlikely he wouldve decided the policy was good value for him 
if hed known more about its cost and benefit.
Canada Square said there were discrepancies in the details Mr W had provided 
about his sick pay and savings. It considered he should provide evidence to support 
what hed said.
Given the time that had passed, Mr W couldnt provide documentary evidence of his 
sick pay and savings. But he explained how his savings had been generated, and the 
adjudicator considered the explanation was plausible.
Canada Square still disputed what Mr W had said, and provided evidence which it
considered undermined Mr Ws testimony.
In his original submission to Canada Square, Mr W said his savings were worth no 
more than three months of his salary. In his later submission to this service, he said 
his savings were worth twelve months of his salary. Mr W said hed completed the 
original submission relatively quickly, and had made a mistake.
Mr W hadnt been able to provide evidence of the savings he says he had in 2002. I 
didnt think that was unreasonable given the amount of time that had passed. But I 
had to consider whether what hed told me about his circumstances at the time was 
plausible.
Mr W said the savings he had were generated through equity he had in a property. 
Hed referred to equity release - but given his age at the time I thought it was 
unlikely he wouldve been able to take advantage of a standard equity release 
scheme.
Mr W said he had to borrow against the property to buy out a former partner. On that 
basis, I thought it was more likely he borrowed through a traditional mortgage. But if 
that was the case, I thought it was unlikely that a lender wouldve allowed him to 
borrow excess funds to set aside for savings.
Canada Square had provided historic credit card statements. There was a transfer
balance to the card shortly after Mr W took it out, which had an interest-free period. 
Mr W made minimum payments to the card both during the interest-free period and 
after it had ended. The cards credit limit was exceeded and the balance was 
eventually sold to a third party in 2009.
Mr W explained how the credit card debt arose, and why he didnt clear it from the 
savings he says he had. But given the length of time that the debt remained on the 
card, and the impact this was likely to have had on Mr Ws credit record, on balance I 
thought it was likely he wouldve paid off the balance if hed had access to the 
savings hes referred to. 
Keeping all of these points in mind, I didnt think I could safely say that Mr W had the 
savings hed mentioned when he took out the card.
This meant the PPI was likely to have been a useful benefit to Mr W if he couldnt 
work. So even if hed had better information about its cost and benefit, on balance I 
didnt think he wouldve made a different decision about taking it out.
Mr W said he didnt know the PPI had been added to his account. But Id seen a 
screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where PPI 
wouldve been offered to Mr W. This showed he wouldve had to choose whether he 
wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Canada Squares 
record of the application data showed that Mr W selected the PPI. So I thought 
Canada Square made him aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it.
Mr W said he didnt need the PPI because of his employer sick pay and savings. But
Canada Square didnt recommend the policy to Mr W so it didnt have to check if he 
needed it or whether it was suitable for him.
It was possible the information Canada Square gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it was unlikely Mr W wouldve been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. So I didnt think he needed better information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations. The policy was also competitively priced 
and had a reasonable benefit. So I didnt think better information wouldve stopped 
him buying it.
Which meant Canada Square didnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Canada Square had paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
- Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Canada 
Square didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Canada Square had paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I thought that was fair 
in this case.
Mr W said he didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional findings. Canada Square didnt make any further representations either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think it most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman