DRN-2906485
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account, called a Select account. Lloyds charged Mr M a monthly fee for the account and 
provided several potential benefits in return. 
Mr M thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mr M has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us its records show that 
he opened a fee-free account in 1994 and that it sold him the Select account in 1998. I 
believe that Lloyds records about this are probably reliable. I have taken this account history 
to be accurate.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend that 
Lloyds should give him any money back. Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr M and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment, but first Id like to point out that as its 
now well over twenty years since Lloyds sold the Select account to Mr M, there is very little 
conclusive evidence from the time, so I cant tell for sure what happened. Instead, I have 
used the information that is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred. 
In 1998, the benefits of the Select account included services such as payment card 
protection, accidental death benefit, purchase protection and extended warranties. Subject 
to certain conditions, Lloyds also offered customers with Select accounts lower cost 
overdrafts than it usually provided to customer with fee-free accounts. Later on, Lloyds 
added additional benefits such as insurance for mobile phones and use of a car breakdown 
service.
When Lloyds sold the Select account to Mr M, I would have expected it to give him a choice 
about buying it, and to tell him about the benefits it provided and about its cost. 
The main point of Mrs Ms complaint is that he doesnt think Lloyds gave him a choice. Hes 
said that Lloyds never gave him the opportunity to have a free bank account and has told 
us that he believes Lloyds mis-sold him the Select account because he cannot ever 
remember being given an option of having anything else. 
I accept that Mr M is doing his best to recall what happened back in 1998, but by then he 
had held a fee-free account for around four years. At that time, such accounts were widely 
available in the UK, both from Lloyds and other banks, and have remained so since. I doubt 
that Lloyds told Mr M that he couldnt keep his fee-free account as this would have 
contradicted its own commercial position and common banking practices at the time. I think 
its more likely that Lloyds allowed Mr M a choice.
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mr M about the benefits of the Select account. 
After all, it was trying to sell the account to him and it was in its own interest to tell him what 
he could gain by taking it. I also think Lloyds would have told Mr M about the monthly fee as 
it would have been difficult to present the benefits as free. 
Mr M has also said that he didnt need benefits such as the car breakdown service and 
mobile phone insurance. However, as mentioned earlier, these werent features of the Select 
account in1998 and so wouldnt have affected the way Lloyds sold it. Lloyds has also said 
that later on Mr M registered a mobile phone for insurance, so it seems to me that it probably 
kept him up-to-date with changes to the Select account.
Mr M has also complained that while he held the Select account, Lloyds transferred him to 
another bank. I accept this. It was part of a large-scale change. But Mr M doesnt seem to 
have lost out as a result of this change, so I dont have any grounds on which to tell Lloyds 
to give him any money back for it. 
So, in summary, there isnt a great deal of firm information about what happened in this 
case. I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right for Mr M, but I dont think it 
denied him a choice to keep his fee-free account in 1998. And Im satisfied that it probably 
told him about the fees and the benefits of the account. I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Select account to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold a Select account to him. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman