DRN-2781810
The complaint
Ms B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) reduced the availability on her mortgage 
reserve facility without any notice. 
What happened
Ms B has a mortgage with Barclays and alongside this has a mortgage reserve facility. Ms B 
says she checked her mortgage reserve facility in October 2020, as she was planning 
property renovations, and she noticed the facility had been substantially reduced. On 
querying this with Barclays she was told that they had written to her in 2018 to inform her of 
this, but Ms B says she has no recollection of receiving this letter. Ms B says in 2017 she 
asked Barclays to maintain the reserve availability in place, so they should have been aware 
she needed this. Ms B doesnt think its fair that Barclays can reduce her reserve facility by 
sending just a single letter, without any following telephone calls or reminders. Ms B wants 
Barclays to reinstate the reserve limit that was discussed with Barclays in 2017.
Barclays says they did write to Ms B in 2017, 2018 and 2019 making Ms B aware regular 
reviews of her mortgage reserve facility would take place and specifically in 2018 they told 
her of the reduction of the mortgage reserve limit. Barclays says it wasnt until October 2020 
that Ms B contacted them about this, and they are unable to reinstate the facility she had 
previously and have acted in line with their terms and conditions.  
Ms B wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt that Barclays acted fairly as they had written to Ms B in 2018 explaining the limit 
available on her mortgage reserve facility was being reduced. The investigator also says that 
Barclays had acted in line with their terms and conditions and had written again to Ms B in 
2019 advising of her mortgage reserve limit. The investigator didnt feel Barclays had done 
anything wrong here. 
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Ms B to learn her mortgage 
reserve facility had been reduced at a time she wished to make use of it. When looking at 
this complaint I will consider whether Barclays acted fairly when it reduced the level of 
funding available to Ms B, under her mortgage reserve facility.
Its worth saying Ms Bs mortgage reserve facility was made available to her back in 2007 as 
part of a total mortgage facility at that time. The facility allowed Ms B to have a separate 
current account running alongside her mortgage account and the reserve facility on that 
current account would increase as her main mortgage borrowing reduced, provided the 
overall facility available remained the same. 
Ms B says between 2007 and 2017 she made considerable reductions to her mortgage and 
so her mortgage reserve facility had increased accordingly. Ms B says in 2017 she 
contacted Barclays following receipt of a letter about proposed changes to her mortgage 
reserve limit, and they agreed to leave her limit at the current level of just over £205,000. Ms 
B says it wasnt until October 2020 she realised Barclays had reduced her mortgage reserve 
to £82,300. Ms B says she doesnt recall receiving any notification of this and the reduction 
is unfair and the limit on her mortgage reserve should be reinstated as in any event, in her 
view, one letter alone isnt sufficient to make such changes to her mortgage arrangements. 
I understand the points Ms B makes here but when coming to a full and impartial decision 
here I need to take into account the information provided by both parties. I can see that in 
2017, 2018 and 2019 letters were sent by Barclays letting Ms B know that regular reviews of 
the mortgage reserve limit would take place. While Ms B says she didnt get the letter in April 
2018 which advised her the limit was being reduced, its fair to say she did receive a similar 
letter in 2017 which also pointed out the reserve limit was subject to regular reviews. I say 
this because it was that letter in 2017 that prompted Ms B to discuss keeping the existing 
level of reserve in place. In addition, I have also seen a copy of a letter to Ms B dated April 
2019, which also informs her regular reviews of  her reserve limit would take place and this 
letter again confirmed her limit at the lower level of £82,300. 
In addition, the letter Barclays sent Ms B in April 2018, says they proposed to reduce the 
mortgage reserve limit and gave 60 days-notice of this, giving Ms B various options on what 
to do next. I am satisfied from the copy letters and case notes provided by Barclays to this 
service, these letters were sent, even if Ms B doesnt recall receiving them. It follows, I cant 
say Ms B wasnt informed that such reviews or the reserve mortgage limit reduction wouldnt 
take place. Its also fair to say that changes to Ms Bs mortgage facility with Barclays 
including changes to her mortgage reserve availability were detailed under both sections 
13.1 of the terms and conditions of the mortgage as described by the investigator, and 
additionally referred to under section 21.4 where it confirms facilities can be withdrawn at 
any time. 
While Ms B feels she had agreed to retain the higher limit on her mortgage reserve facility in 
April 2017 with Barclays, thats not to say it was a permanent arrangement as this was 
subject to regular reviews, which was explained in the various letters sent to her.  
I can understand Ms B feels it was unfair of Barclays to issue a single letter to advise her of 
the changes in the availability of her mortgage reserve limit, and although she may not agree 
-  I am satisfied there is sufficient evidence to show a further letter was also sent in 2019 
confirming the limit available to her. It is the responsibility of Ms B to understand the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage reserve facility and Im satisfied Barclays did provide her with 
the opportunity to discuss this with them before the facility was reduced, for the reasons I 
have already given. 
While Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman