DRN-3597627
The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) disclosed personal information 
to a third party.
What happened
Mrs H says her ex-husband should have been removed from a joint savings account in 
2004. She says her ex-husband contacted her in November 2021 about the account and told 
her he still had access to it. She also says he said he could remove the money which 
amounted to £12,000 and had details about her account transactions. Mrs H says she was 
caused distress and worry about her money. She says she withdrew her money and would 
like significant compensation.
RBS accepts it has made a mistake and has apologised. It says it has removed Mrs Hs ex-
husband from the account and has paid £500 compensation. It also says it cant explain 
what took place due to the passage of time.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer was 
appropriate. The investigator thought Mrs H became aware of the issue on 1 November 
2021 and RBS removed her ex-husband from the account on 17 November 2021.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and says she would like £12,000 compensation for what was 
a significant impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount. I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that RBS made a mistake and allowed Mrs Hs ex-husband 
access to her account. I appreciate in those circumstances Mrs H shock and upset in finding 
that out and I also appreciate the impact his comments as well as threats would have had on 
her. I accept Mrs H was caused distress and inconvenience and was forced to withdraw her 
money from her account.
They only real issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. Im satisfied that RBS 
has fairly apologised for its mistake and removed Mrs Hs ex-husband from the account 
within a matter of days after being told about the issue. Im also satisfied that despite the 
threats to withdraw the money Mrs H didnt suffer any financial loss.
I accept that Mrs H was caused a significant short-term impact as a result of what took place 
but that RBSs compensation award falls in line with the type and amount of awards we 
make for this type of complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied RBS has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation and has 
taken steps to avoid further issues. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman