DRN-2304994
The complaint
Mr S complains that Parmenion Capital Partners LLP (Parmenion) failed to process a 
portfolio to portfolio application for his Stocks and Shares ISA and he lost his annual 
allowance for the tax year 2019/2020.
Mr S is represented by his financial advisor Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H reviewed Mr S investments and completed a Suitability Report for him on 30 March 
2020. On the 31 March, Mr S signed an ISA declaration to invest £20,000 into his Stocks 
and Shares Parmenion ISA for the tax year 2019/2020. Mr S also signed a form to transfer 
the balance (£18,293,49) of his general investment account to the Stocks and Shares ISA 
for the tax year 2019/2020.
On the same day, Mrs H contacted Parmenion through their online chat facility to check if 
the application was acceptable. She believed that she received confirmation that it was.
On 1 April 2020, Mr S transferred £1,706.51 from his bank account to the Stocks and Shares 
ISA so that his full ISA allowance would be used. The next day, Mrs H completed the 
Adviser Declaration and submitted it on 3 April 2020. Mr S received a confirmation receipt of 
this application on 5 April 2020.
On 5 April 2020, the IFA received an email from Parmenion saying that the transfer had 
been aborted as an automatic Bed and ISA was in progress for the 2020/2021 tax year. 
Parmenion confirmed on 6 April 2020 that the automatic bed and ISA transfer had been 
successful.
Mrs H complained to Parmenion that the portfolio to portfolio transfer should have been 
completed. She said she had received confirmation from Parmenion that the application was 
correct.
Parmenion investigated the complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. 
They said that a Bed and ISA transaction was already in process and that there would have 
been insufficient funds in place to carry out the portfolio to portfolio transfer. They also said 
that the transfer request was received too late and that deadline dates had been previously 
communicated to all advisers. Parmenion did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with Parmenions response, Mr S referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator did not think that Parmenion had 
done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr S and Mrs H feel strongly about the complaint 
and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
I think that the timeline in this complaint is important as there are key dates when Parmenion 
say that they needed instructions before the tax year-end deadline.
The table below shows what I feel are the important dates in this complaint:
Date Parmenion Deadlines Mr S actions
20 March 2020 Cut off to set up an automatic 
Bed and ISA instruction
23 March 2020 Bed and ISA process initiated 
31 March 2020 Online chat from Mrs H to 
Parmenion to check if 
application was ok
1 April 2020 £1.706.51 transferred into ISA
3 April 2020 Mrs H submitted portfolio to 
portfolio application to 
Parmenion
5 April 2020 Parmenion sent email to Mrs H 
stating portfolio to portfolio 
application had been aborted 
6 April Parmenion sent letter confirmed 
automatic bed and ISA transfer 
was completed 
From reviewing the dates, the application was received after Parmenions date for 
processing standing Bed and ISA instructions. In this complaint, I have considered whether 
Mrs H was given enough notice of these dates and to what extent could she have placed 
reliance on the online chat with Parmenion on 31 March 2020.
The following guidance was sent to all advisers ahead of 20 March 2020:
Friday 20th March 2020
5pm - Cut off to set up an automatic Bed and ISA from a Parmenion GIA (for the
2020/21 tax year contributions). Cut off to receive single PCLS instruction
in order to Crystallise in this tax year where sales are required. *
8pm - Cut off to manually instruct Bed and ISA from Parmenion GIA using
the online tools for the 2019/20 tax year. **
*As long as all funds are settled and ready to be sold, and there are no outstanding
processes on the account.
**Any manual portfolio to portfolio transfers that are instructed after this date will be 
initiated but may not meet the cut off for the 2019/20 tax year subscriptions
***The automatic Bed and ISA process will only initiate if the source portfolio holds a
value of £500.00 or more. If you have instructed an automatic Bed and ISA and the
source portfolio does not meet this criteria, but holds over £10.00, you will receive anotification instructing you to run this process manually using the online tools if required after 
the 6th April 2020. Please note, the automatic Bed and ISA process will also not run if any of 
the following criteria are met but no notification will be issued in these circumstances: 
 The source portfolio is not active or has been closed down
 The destination portfolio is not active or has been closed down
 The source portfolio holds less than £10 value
 There is a portfolio to portfolio transfer already in progress
Transfers
Where transfers have been requested, we cannot guarantee that these transfers will
complete in time for:
 GIA funds to be used for 2019/20 ISA subscriptions
 SIPP funds to be crystallised in the 2019/20 tax year
 ISA subscriptions to be made with Parmenion for the 2019/20 tax year if there are
current years subscriptions with the previous ISA provider.
Website Tools
Automatic Bed and ISA Standard practice today is to ensure clients utilise ISA
subscriptions at the start of the tax year, to maximise their tax benefits. Our web based 
system incorporates functionality to allow the transfer to be executed automatically. To utilise 
this feature, it must be set up before close of business on 20th March 2020
The above guidance was sent to all advisers on 30 January 2020. I think that it clearly states 
the deadlines that Parmenion were working to and it gave all advisers enough notice to work 
with their clients and have instructions in place. 
Parmenion have also said that the dates were also included in weekly emails that were sent 
to advisers from mid-February onwards and there was an alert shown within the secure area 
of the website which advisers accessed. 
In her submission to the service, Mrs H says that she did not receive the communication 
about the 20 March 2020 deadline. I have not seen any indication that email or letters were 
not reaching Mrs H so on the balance of probability, I need to assume that these were sent.
Having reviewed all the documentation that was sent to advisers, I think Parmenion gave 
enough notice and the communications were clear and not misleading. I dont think that 
Parmenion have acted unfairly here and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Mrs H says that she understood from the online chat with Parmenion on 31 March that the 
application had been accepted and that everything was in order. I have reviewed a transcript 
of the call. Mrs H asks the agent: 
Can you check what Im doing on app xxxx its an in-house transfer and a top up for an ISA. 
GIA to ISA but changing the portfolio at the same time
The agent double checks the reference and then replies:
Yes, this can be sent in
The transcript records the time between confirming the reference and the agent responding 
as 60 seconds. The application form in question is detailed and Im not convinced that the answer that the agent gave was the response to the question that Mrs H was actually 
asking. 
Parmenion have stated in their submission that they were not aware what tax year the 
question was in relation to. I have considered this and the overall transcript. I think that the 
question asked by Mrs H does not go into enough detail for the agent to consider if an 
instruction was in place for an automatic bed and ISA transfer and the consequence of this 
on the application.
In summary, I think that Mrs H should have been aware of the deadlines set by Parmenion 
and the instruction to process a portfolio to portfolio transfer should have been made earlier. 
I think that Parmenion acted fairly in rejecting the transfer request as they had 
communicated their deadlines dates well in advance.
I dont think that the online chat provides enough evidence that Mrs H was asking the agent 
to read through the application and confirm that the portfolio to portfolio transfer could 
proceed. Mrs H did not make the agent aware that there was an automatic bed and ISA 
instruction in place.
Whilst I sympathise that Mr S has not been able to fully utilise his ISA allowance, I cant see 
that Parmenion and done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman