DRN-2927266
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited cancelled his life assurance policy 
without giving him the option to re-instate it.
What happened
Mr P took out the policy in 1997. He believed that he would only have to pay premiums for 
10 years and therefore made no further premium payments after January 2007.
In response to a query from Mr Ps broker, Aviva wrote to Mr P, care of his broker, in 
November 2007 giving illustrations for future returns and explaining that in order to maintain 
the current level of cover he may have to increase his premium. 
Aviva then wrote to Mr P, again care of his broker, on 14 March 2008. The letter was headed 
Preserve your valuable life cover. It advised that as no premiums had been received 
since the one due in January 2007 it had converted the policy to paid up assurance. It said 
that Mr P could regain the full benefits of the policy by bringing the premiums up to date. It 
included a direct debit instruction form to be returned within 21 days. However the letter 
continued that you may be able to reinstate your policy at any time until the end of 
December 2008, please contact us if you wish to reinstate within this period. 
The letter also advised: The number of units is diminishing each month, and this will reduce 
the cash-in value of your policy until no units remain, at which point the policy will be 
cancelled with no value.
Mr P made no further payment and did not respond to this letter. In January 2019 Aviva 
wrote advising that all units left in the policy had been used to provide the life insurance 
cover. As there was no value left the policy had been cancelled.
Mr P complained but Aviva didnt uphold his complaint so he referred it to our service. Our 
investigator didnt find that Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr P appealed. He said that he 
had taken the policy out in good faith and the illustration he was given shows that the 
premiums were payable for 10 years. He argues that when funds were running low he 
should have been given the opportunity to pay further premiums to maintain the cover.
Aviva provided further documentation that was shared with Mr P.
Mr P made several points in response:
He felt that the documentation showed the policy was clearly designed for the 
premiums to stop after 10 years and that no indication was given that the policy 
would not continue for life without additional premiums being paid. 
There was no warning that he may end up having to pay more than the sum assured.
Many of the communications have not be received by him or his advisers over the 
years.
At no point has Aviva offered the option of recommencing premiums to enable to 
policy to continue. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The original terms and conditions of the policy set out that you can vary the premiums after 
the first ten years of the policy.
Under section 2.2 of the policy terms, it explains that when premiums are stopped:
 if Units are at that time allocated to the policy, the policy will be made paid-up immediately. 
This means that no further premiums will be payable. The Guaranteed Minimum Benefit will
stay at the amount applicable at that time and will continue to be payable in accordance with
the terms of the policy, provided that:
(i) the Bid Value of the Units held is at all times thereafter sufficient to meet the ongoing
cost of providing Cover and the Monthly Administration Fee 
 
Section 2.3 says If at any time the Bid Value of the Units of the paid-up policy is not
sufficient to meet the ongoing cost of providing Cover and the Monthly Administration Fee in
accordance with Section 7, the policy will lapse without value.
Section 7 explains that In any month if the Guaranteed Minimum Benefit exceeds the Bid
Value of the policy, together with any accrued EFI, Units will be cancelled on the Monthly
Charging Day to meet the price charged by (the original insurer) for providing Cover.
I find that the policy contained a clear warning as to what would happen if premiums were 
ceased. Here Mr Ps policy was made paid-up when he stopped paying premiums. Life and 
critical illness cover continued to be provided in accordance with the policy until there was no 
value left, at which stage it was cancelled. Aviva notified Mr P of this in January 2019. I find 
that was reasonable and in accordance with the policy terms.
I understand that Mr P thought he was paying a vanishing premium  and that after 10 years 
he didnt need to pay anything further but would still retain the full policy benefit. I accept too 
that Mr P was sent a letter in November 1996 which said that the annual premium was 
payable for 10 years. But this had to be read in accordance with the policy document and 
schedule. The illustration prepared for Mr Ps financial adviser does say that premiums are 
stopped after 10 years, it also stated this illustration should be read with the key features 
document. Importantly it didnt say that benefit will be guaranteed at the same level after 
that time. 
A letter sent to Mr P when his application was accepted explained how the plan worked. It 
said:Unfortunately, what happened here was that the units didnt grow at the assumed rate. As 
Aviva explained to Mr P global investment conditions had not been as positive as they were 
at the turn of the century. Accordingly investment returns were lower than originally forecast. 
Aviva explained to Mr Ps adviser in 2007 what he would need to do to maintain cover, but 
as Ive said above, no action was taken and so the policy was made paid up.
Here Im considering whether or not Aviva has acted fairly and in accordance with the policy 
terms. Im satisfied that it has. I havent considered what Mr P might have been told or 
understood at the point of sale, as the responsibility for this lies with his financial adviser. I 
accept that he purchased the policy in good faith and it is most unfortunate that there 
appears to have been a misunderstanding. However, having considered the documentation I 
dont find that this was the fault of Aviva.
Mr P says that he should have been given the opportunity to pay further premiums to 
maintain the cover  but I find that he was. This was in the letter dated March 2008, 
addressed to him care of his financial adviser. I note that Mr P says that some of the 
correspondence was not received by him or his advisers over the years. He has not 
indicated which correspondence was received and what not, but Im satisfied that it was 
correctly addressed and that he has now had the opportunity to comment. In all the 
circumstances I dont find Aviva treated Mr P unfairly by treating his policy as lapsed in 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before xxxx.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman
