DRN-4119120
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) handled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. When I mention Tesco I also mean its suppliers and repairers.
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with Tesco covering his car. In June 2022 he was 
involved in a collision with a third party. The third-party admitted responsibility for the 
collision.
Mr K made a claim from Tesco. His car was taken to one of Tescos repairers and Mr K was 
provided with a courtesy car. 
The collision was to the front off-side of his car. Tesco agreed to repair damage to the 
bodywork and wheel. The car was repaired and returned to Mr K. He noticed some noise 
coming from the front suspension in the vicinity of the damage. He thought that the noise 
was serious and rendered the car unroadworthy so he contacted Tesco and asked it to take 
the car back.
Tescos engineer assessed the car and said he thought there was some damage to the 
suspension, but he thought that it had been caused by wear and tear rather than as a result 
of the collision.
Mr K wasnt happy about Tescos claims handling or its engineers communications with him, 
so he complained. Tesco upheld his complaint and agreed to repair the suspension as part 
of the claim. It offered Mr K £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
He remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He complains about 
Tescos service and that he didnt have a car for 29 days during his claim. He also 
complained about the increase in his renewal premium. He asks for a written apology from 
the engineer, and between £2,494 and £4,350 compensation for the loss of use of a vehicle. 
He also seeks compensation of about £1,000. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it in part. He said he thought Tescos 
offer of compensation was fair, but he thought it should pay Mr K for the loss of use of a 
vehicle at £10 per day for 29 days.
Tesco accepted the view, but Mr K didnt. He points out that Tescos invoices for the hire 
cars he was provided with were much greater than £10 per day, He asked that his complaint 
was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed Mr Ks claim and I can see that his car has now been repaired, and the repairs 
done included some minor work to the rear of the vehicle not from the collision mentioned 
above.
Ill also mention that his renewal was re-evaluated by Tesco and offered to him at 
approximately the same premium as his previous years cover. I think this is significant 
because I understand that Mr K had a second non-fault collision while driving a hire car and 
Id normally expect to see insurers treat two claims (even when they are both held as non-
fault) as being a significant factor during the renewal underwriting process.
Mr K has also made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to Tesco about his claim and in his 
approach to this service hes mentioned that he hasnt yet received all of the data he thinks 
he should have. I can see that Tesco have told him that its response to the SAR is in the 
process of being caried out as it involves two companies. If Mr K remains unhappy about the 
results of his SAR then he may find it appropriate to make an approach to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
In its final response, Tesco said:
we arranged for a further independent inspection. Although it didnt conflict with 
the original findings, it did raise concerns over the certainty to determine what 
had/hadnt been damaged during the incident. In situations such as this, we should 
always default in the customers favour, which we agree didnt happen on this 
occasion.
I can see from Tescos evidence that it realised its initial assessment had been poor so when 
doubt was introduced about the cause of the suspension damage, it agreed to cover the 
component. Mr K supplied an invoice showing that the particular component had been 
replaced about three years beforehand, which is a key part of my understanding that the 
suspension was more likely to have been damaged in the collision rather than as wear and 
tear. 
I think Tescos response in agreeing to pay for the suspension damage was fair and 
reasonable, and I agree with it that it should have made that assessment earlier on in the 
process given the information it had and that Mr K supplied.
Tesco has offered Mr K £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, which Mr K 
hasnt accepted. Hes asked for a figure around £1,000. He has said the claim took three 
months to settle when hed expect it to have been a few weeks. Ive thought about this 
carefully as the motor industry continues to be affected by delays on spare parts. 
I can also see that Mr Ks car was an unusual version of a type of car no longer in 
production. The suspension component in question was referred to as the last one by the 
repairer who located it, so I think its reasonable to think that repairs might take a little while 
longer than what Mr K considers to be the norm. 
I also understand that he had paid for an upgraded courtesy car as part of his cover with 
Tesco and its this part of his complaint Mr K asks for Tesco to pay the most for. He told 
Tesco he would expect it to pay £150 per day for a car he said was a similar standard to his 
own. 
Tesco supplied two hire cars during his claim, of which the first was of a type Id regard as 
upgraded, and the second more of a standard courtesy car. I can see from the file that 
this point was discussed by our investigator who said he thought the second hire car was 
appropriate. Tesco also says that it didnt provide Mr K with hire cars quickly enough during his claim. As 
its agreed with this point, and accepted that it would pay loss of use of his car for 29 days at 
£10 per day, I dont think I need to explore this point further. 
This services guidelines say that a payment of £10 per day is sufficient to compensate for 
the loss of use of a car. I know Mr K disagrees with this point as he points out Tescos 
invoices for the hire car were for a much greater rate per day, but the guideline amount of 
£10 is to compensate for extra costs incurred by a claimant. And I cant see that Mr K has 
incurred extra costs during the period when he didnt have a car. 
So without further evidence, Im not able to say Tesco need to pay him an additional amount 
over and above what its already agreed to pay. Taking this into consideration, I think its fair 
to ask Tesco to pay Mr K for 29 days loss of use at £10 per day, in addition to the £300 it 
offered him for his distress and inconvenience. 
In his complaint Mr K also asks for a written apology from the engineer. I can understand the 
strength of Mr Ks feelings about his interactions with the engineer and its clear that he 
disagrees fundamentally about the way the engineer went about his claim and the way he 
was communicated with. 
Ive read Tescos response to him, which includes commentary about a particular piece of 
correspondence between them which is a key part of Mr Ks complaint about the engineer. In 
my mind Tescos explanation helps resolve this specific matter and says, The engineer has 
offered his sincere apologies for any distress this may have caused. I think this response is 
reasonable and Im not going to require Tesco to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mr K:
£300 for his distress and inconvenience caused by its claims process.
£290 for his loss of use of a car, at £10 per day for 29 days.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman