DRN-2322928
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the success fee charged by Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast 
Track Reclaim (FTR). Ms B says she thought shed only instructed FTR to carry out a free 
PPI check.  
What happened
FTR say following an online enquiry made by Ms B through their website in June 2019, they 
received a signed authority form to pursue potential PPI mis-sale claims on Ms Bs behalf 
against various lenders. Ms Bs complaint concerns lender T, lender C and lender B. 
FTR have provided screenshots showing the likely online journey Ms B wouldve gone 
through at the time of signing up to their service. The first screen says 100% FREE PPI 
Check. 
The second screen includes additional wording, explaining Once your PPI has been located, 
you can allow FTR to claim on your behalf or proceed with the claim yourself. The next two 
screens prompt Ms B to enter her personal details, and details for the lenders she wants 
FTR to look into. The fourth screen includes a box to insert an electronic signature. 
The final screen includes a heading Agree to T&Cs followed by the caption Use the tick 
box below to agree to our Terms and Conditions. Please note that the signature(s) provided 
on the previous step will be used to sign our Terms and Conditions. A tick box is provided 
next to the caption I agree to the above Terms and Conditions and understand that the 
check is 100% Free. 
The terms and conditions explained that in the event of a successful claim, FTR would 
charge a contingency fee representing no more than 24% inc. VAT in respect of any 
redress/compensation/goodwill payment recovered on your behalf .The terms and 
conditions also explained Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You 
authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
On 29 July lender T confirmed Ms B had taken out PPI with them. Lender C also confirmed 
the same. Throughout July, August and September, FTR sent claim packs with a PPI 
questionnaire to Ms B. Ms B was asked to return this paperwork so that FTR could progress 
claims where theyd found PPI. Ms B says she also received numerous calls from FTR 
asking about this paperwork, but she told them she didnt want them acting for her. FTR 
have explained they dont have a record of all calls because they werent able to complete 
security checks during some of the calls. 
FTR have confirmed Ms B did speak to a representative on 10 September 2019. In FTRs 
final response letter they explained On the 10th September 2019 you spoke with an 
employee and advised that you wished to cancel everything as you had not intended to 
employ FTR services. The employee you spoke with sent a task for your claims to be 
cancelled. As you declined to complete security on the call, the employee should not have 
actioned this request as we could not verify your identity, feedback and the necessary 
training has been provided to this employee.
On 19 September, lender T agreed to award compensation for two accounts. FTR wrote to 
Ms B asking for their success fee to be paid. Ms B complained to FTR, saying she hadnt 
provided her authority for FTR to make claims on her behalf. In October FTR told Miss B 
lender B had confirmed PPI.
FTR responded to Ms Bs complaint on 18 December saying their success fee for lender T 
remained payable in line with the terms and conditions agreed to. They also explained Ms 
Bs other claims had been cancelled, but should you receive an offer of redress from [lender 
C or lender B] following an auto-conversion, you will be liable for the contingency fee.
Ms B didnt agree with FTRs response, saying that she hadnt signed any documents for 
FTR to continue with the claims, and it was only a free PPI check she thought shed agreed 
to. She referred her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that Ms Bs behaviour indicated that she didnt want FTR to continue 
to act for her once theyd told her about potential PPI claims. FTR disagreed with the 
investigators findings, saying that the terms and conditions made it clear that authority 
extended to a claims service once PPI had been identified. 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 October 2020 saying that I intend to uphold this 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
FTR feel strongly that the terms and conditions form the agreement in place between two 
parties. On that basis in the absence of a termination notice from either party, the terms and 
conditions remain binding on both parties. Theyve also said The secondary documentation 
(emails and texts) which seeks to ensure that we provide the client with the best prospect of 
success is simply an attempt to obtain more information. It is not a further declaration and/or 
variation to the contract.
I accept that the terms and conditions formed the basis of the contract with FTR. But I think 
its also fair to consider the information Ms B was presented with before making a decision to 
sign up to FTRs service. Ive considered the evidence as a whole- including the web 
journey, the terms and conditions, the wording in the information requests, and Ms Bs call 
with FTR in September, when deciding what a fair outcome should be for this complaint. 
The terms and conditions explained Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends 
and You authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services. Although its 
not disputed that the terms and conditions allowed FTR to do this, Ive also considered the 
web journey, and the fact that it drew focus to FTR offering a FREE PPI Check. 
On the first screen, this wording is in capital letters, and is the largest, most prominent text 
on the page. The second screen says Once your PPI has been located, you can allow FTR 
to claim on your behalf or proceed with the claim yourself. I think it was reasonable for Ms B 
to proceed with the claim with the understanding that shed have the option to decide what to 
do once notified of the free PPI check outcome. FTR were first notified that Ms B held PPI with lender T in July 2019, and with lender C 
shortly after. They reached out to Ms B asking her to complete a questionnaire. Ms B didnt 
return this information. Ms B says that she continued to receive calls from FTR, during which 
she asked them to cancel her claims. I asked FTR to provide a call log of all calls made to, 
and received from, Ms B. 
The first call recorded is on 10 September 2019. However, in FTRs final response letter, 
they do also say that they acknowledge that [Ms B] spoke with an employee of FTR on more 
calls but they couldnt disclose details for these calls as security checks were not fully 
completed.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Ms B did speak to FTR on more occasions 
than the call information that has been provided from 10 September. This would be 
consistent with what Ms B has explained about her understanding of FTR only completing a 
PPI check on her behalf, but also her behaviour in not returning any of the requests for 
paperwork during that period. 
What is evident is that Ms B cancelled  FTRs service on 10 September. FTR say they 
shouldnt have accepted this cancellation, as Ms B hadnt answered security questions. But I 
dont think this changes what happened during that call. FTR accept that Ms B made it clear 
she didnt want them acting for her. So they were made aware that she was unhappy with 
their continued involvement. Keeping in mind what FTR have explained about earlier calls 
with Ms B being terminated for the same reason, I think its reasonable to treat the call of 10 
September as Ms B giving instruction to FTR to cancel their service. 
At the time, Ms B had been notified of two lenders (lender T, and lender C), where PPI had 
been confirmed, and Ms B had been asked to return paperwork. Ive carefully considered 
FTRs cancellation terms, and what Ms B was told (and understood) about FTRs service. 
FTRs terms and conditions say that theyd be entitled to charge their success fee on any 
claims where a lender agrees to award compensation after the 14 day cooling-off period. 
FTR say the 14 day cooling-off period starts the day a letter of authority is signed. So in the 
case of Ms B, on 23 June 2019. But FTRs terms and conditions also allow for a period when 
their success fees wont be charged. 
The definition of Free PPI Check Period within FTRs terms and conditions say that You 
will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free PPI Check Period. In this case the web 
journey that induced Ms B in signing up to FTRs service placed emphasis on the PPI check 
process being free. This information is repeated across page one and two of the five page 
web journey. Before ticking agreement to the terms and conditions, the caption next to this 
also says I agree to the above Terms and Conditions and understand that the check is 
100% Free. 
Ive considered the web journey alongside the requests for return of the PPIQ that were sent 
to Ms B. These say in bold IMPORTANT: You HAVE paid PPI and action is needed to 
receive your refund. I think it was reasonable for Ms B to have understood that FTR wouldnt 
be acting as her representative if she didnt take any further action. She had already been 
through an online process which highlighted the free PPI check. The evidence, on balance, 
supports that Ms B did have calls with FTR where she terminated the call, not wanting to 
engage further with FTR. I think disengaging from the process after receiving requests to 
complete paperwork was consistent with Ms Bs other actions on the claim. 
I accept that the cancellation of 10 September was outside of the 14 days allowed by FTRs 
terms and conditions during which no costs would be charged. But having considered the 
wording from the web journey, the information requests, and the fact that Ms B did cancel FTRs service before finding out about any successful claims, I think its reasonable to say 
that it wouldnt be fair for FTR to charge their success fee on any successful claims. 
In respect of lender B, (where PPI wasnt confirmed until after Ms B cancelled FTRs service 
on 10 September), I think theres even stronger argument to say Ms B was still within the 
Free PPI Check Period. Ms B did clearly cancel her contract with FTR before PPI was 
confirmed with lender B. So I think its reasonable to say this was within the Free PPI Check 
Period. FTRs terms and conditions say You will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free 
PPI Check Period. So I dont think its fair that FTR charge a success fee should any claims 
with lender B result in compensation.
Having considered all the evidence Im persuaded a fair outcome is for FTR to waive their 
outstanding invoice for lender T, and cease any collection activity in respect of this. I also 
think FTR should cancel any outstanding agreements with Ms B, at no cost to her. This 
would mean that they wouldnt be entitled to charge their success fee for any future 
successful claims with lender C or lender B. 
I think Ms B instructed FTR on the basis that theyd complete a free PPI check, and shed 
have the option to cancel or continue with FTRs service once notified of the free PPI check 
outcome. The terms and conditions about the Free PPI Check Period arent clear, and Ms B 
cancelled FTRs service before being notified of any successful claims. All factors 
considered on balance I dont think it would be fair for FTR to charge Ms B for a service I 
dont think was made clear to her.
Responses
FTR didnt agree with my provisional decision. The comments made by FTR include:
1. the T&C explained the 14-day cooling off period and that the agreement could be 
cancelled free of charge within this period. Section 8.2 states No cancellation fee 
will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the cooling off period, 
however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a claim our fee 
will be due
2.  as she cancelled outside of the cooling off period and went on to receive an offer, 
we believe she is liable for the contingency fee for this offer and that [Ms B] will also 
be liable for contingency fees on any future offers which are made as a result of 
complaints logged by FTR.
Ms B accepted the provisional decisions, and highlighted We were relieved that we hadn't 
signed for anything other than a free checkwhy we ignored all correspondence 
afterwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions say You will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free PPI 
Check Period. Im satisfied that at the time of cancelling her agreements with FTR on 10 
September 2019, Ms B had only reasonably been told that PPI had been found with various 
lenders. 
The repeated requests for information highlighted the need for Ms B to take additional steps 
so that FTR could continue with the claims. Ms B didnt respond to these requests. Given 
what the web journey had emphasised about the PPI check process being free, I think Ms Bs disengagement from the process, and cancellation of 10 September, was consistent with 
her understanding that there wouldnt be any costs involved in cancelling at the time she did. 
Im satisfied that the wording throughout the online journey emphasised the nature of the 
service starting with a free PPI check, and the option to allow FTR to claim on your behalf or 
proceed with the claim yourself. I accept that simply disengaging from a process wouldnt 
usually be sufficient to say that FTRs terms and conditions shouldnt apply. But thats not 
what happened here. Ms B told FTR that she didnt want them acting for her. And this was 
done before shed found out about any successful claims. She effectively opted out of FTRs 
service by doing this.
Ms B has also provided a strong testimony to indicate that cancellation was attempted on 
several occasions throughout July and August. FTR havent been able to provide evidence 
of these calls. They acknowledge that [Ms B] spoke with an employee of FTR on more calls 
but they couldnt disclose details for these calls as security checks were not fully completed. 
However FTR do accept that cancellation was discussed during the call on 10 September. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to apply the cancellation terms in the way FTR 
have described. There is evidence which strongly supports Ms Bs testimony that she 
understood the process to be two-stage, allowing the option for FTR to claim on [her]behalf 
or proceed with the claim [her]self. 
The timing of Ms Bs cancellation is key here. She wasnt aware of any successful claims, 
and the requests for information shed received reasonably implied further action was 
needed for FTR to continue with her claims. By cancelling FTRs service in September, at a 
time where she reasonably believed claims hadnt been submitted because more information 
was required from her, she opted out of continuing with FTRs service. 
Looking at the facts of this case, including the web journey, the continual requests for 
information that were not responded to, and no offers of compensation being made at the 
time Ms B cancelled FTRs service, I think a fair outcome is for FTR to waive the outstanding 
invoice for lender T, cease any collection activity in respect of this, and cancel any 
outstanding agreements with Ms B, at no cost to her. 
My final decision
Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim is directed to waive the outstanding 
invoice for lender T, and cease any collection activity in respect of this. 
Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim is also be directed to cancel any 
outstanding agreements with Ms B, at no cost to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman