DRN-3070926
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have recorded a claim on his 
insurance record when they shouldnt have and it is affecting the cost of his renewal 
premium.   
What happened
Mr F holds a motor insurance policy with Ageas, which is administered by a company A. 
In April 2018 Mr F misplaced his second key and notified Ageas. It was logged on their 
system as a key loss/theft. 
Mr F subsequently decided not to proceed with the claim and asked for the record to be 
removed. Ageas didnt remove the record. Following a complaint, Mr F was sent a final 
response in May 2019 advising him that the claim was logged on his record for information 
purposes only and was correctly recorded so it would not be removed. 
In May 2018 Mr F renewed his car insurance with a different company. 
In July 2020 Mr F complained to us and to Ageass administrator A that the information on 
his record and on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) about key loss was causing 
an increase in his insurance renewal premium with other insurers. He asked A on behalf of 
Ageas to remove the record and reimburse the additional premium he has paid as a result of 
the record. He also asked for a payment for the stress and inconvenience. 
A responded in August 2020 that Mr Fs record showed notification of a loss of keys on 24 
April 2018, which was incorrectly recorded as 4 April 2018. This was recorded as 
notification only and his no claims discount wasnt affected. 
A also advised that as they are not the insurer, but act on behalf of Ageas, they dont have 
access to the full claims record and were unable to amend the way claims have been 
recorded. They were also unable to comment on premiums quoted by alternative insurers. 
However, they awarded Mr F £50 for the incorrect date being recorded. 
As Mr F has essentially raised the same complaint with A as he raised with Ageas, we asked 
Ageas if they were happy for us to look at Mr Fs original complaint on which they issued a 
final response in 2019.  Ageas have agreed that we can.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Fs complaint and decided that Ageas have done 
nothing wrong.  
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether Ageas have correctly recorded the information about Mr F 
on his record and on the CUE and whether they have done so fairly. To do this I have read 
all the information on Mr Fs record and I have considered Mr Fs testimony. 
Mr F is obliged to report any incident to Ageas which may have led to a claim, whether it did 
or not. Lost and stolen keys are something that should be reported as they increase the risk 
of theft of the vehicle. When Mr F reported the lost keys to Ageas, it was recorded on their 
file as a theft peril because of this increased risk. Ageas offered replacement locks and keys 
but after a discussion about the cost of the claim, Mr F decided not to continue with it. He 
was advised by Ageas at the time that the claim would be logged on his policy for 
information purposes and would stay on the file. 
Mr F advises that he subsequently found his keys. 
Although no claim was made, I cant say that Ageas have made an error or acted unfairly in 
recording the loss of the keys on Mr Fs file. Ageas have correctly recorded a potential claim 
and following his decision not to proceed with the claim, they have made Mr F aware that the 
claim would be logged and would stay on his file. So I cant say that that there has been an 
error, or that Mr F has not been treated fairly, as he was made aware of what would happen.  
Ageas have also provided Mr F with a letter which confirms the situation and that there is no 
impact on his no clams discount. 
Whilst I understand that Mr Fs says his premiums have increased, I have seen no evidence 
to indicate that this is the case, nor any evidence that the increased premium is as a result of 
this incident being recorded on CUE.  There can be many reasons why renewal premiums 
increase.
  
I also cant hold Ageas responsible for quotes provided by other insurers. Each insurer has 
its own risk tolerances which they use to determine premiums and whilst the information 
held on CUE will be part of that assessment Ageas are not responsible for the way other 
insurers use that information. 
I note that A have paid Mr F £50 for the erroneous recording of the date of the incident, and 
that is not affected by my decision.   
I appreciate that Mr F feels strongly about what happened, However, in this case I find that 
Ageas have acted fairly and reasonably.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and Ageas Insurance Limited do not need 
to do anything further.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman