DRN-3785204
The complaint
Mr T complains about a hire purchase agreement provided by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited  trading as Skoda Financial Services (VWFS). He says he wasnt 
aware the agreement contained a balloon payment.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr T took a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to fund the cost of a used 
car. The total cash price of the car was £11,193. Mr T paid a deposit of £992.70 by part 
exchanging a car. He was due to make regular repayments of £174.07 per month. This was 
to be followed by a final payment of £4,747.50 if he wanted to keep the car at the end of the 
term  typically known as a balloon payment.
Towards the end of the agreement, Mr T says he became aware of the balloon payment and 
complained to VWFS. He said he didnt know this was due and thought he would own the 
car by making his normal monthly payments. 
VWFS issued its final response in June 2022. It said, in summary, that the agreement Mr T 
signed explained the balloon payment. And it said Mr T had ticked a form at the time to say 
he understood the terms of the finance.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said he didnt ask for a 
credit agreement with a balloon payment and nor was he made aware of this. Mr T said 
VWFS should waive the final payment.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, 
that she couldnt see the agreement had been misrepresented to Mr T or that hed queried 
the terms at the time.
Mr T remained unhappy with this. A third party responded on his behalf. In summary, they 
explained Mr T had been dealing with some very difficult personal circumstances. They said 
Mr T specifically asked the dealer if the agreement contained a balloon payment and was 
told that it didnt. They said another third party could back this up. And they said the dealer 
deliberately concealed information on the documents at the time.
As Mr T disagreed, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr T complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ts 
complaint against VWFS. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulation 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant to this complaint. This 
explains under certain circumstances that a finance provider is liable for what is said or done 
by a credit broker or supplier before an agreement is entered into. Here, this means Im 
satisfied I can consider what Mr T said he was told by the dealer about the finance as part of 
his complaint about VWFS.
What I need to consider here is whether the finance was misrepresented to Mr T or if he was 
misled about it in some other way. A misrepresentation wouldve taken place if Mr T was told 
a false statement of fact about the credit, that induced him into entering into the agreement 
when he otherwise wouldnt have. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr T said here. Initially, he said he didnt ask for an 
agreement with a balloon payment on and wasnt told the agreement contained one. After 
the investigator explained she didnt think the case should be upheld, he said the dealer 
specifically told him the agreement didnt have a balloon payment on and concealed 
information on the forms. I do need to consider these are somewhat different versions of 
events.
Ive also considered what Mr T signed at the time  although I appreciate the documents 
dont tell the whole story. 
On the credit agreement signed by Mr T, under a heading payment it explains the monthly 
payments and then says:
..followed by a final payment of £4,747.50 payable 47 months after the date set for the 
first repayment
Mr T also signed a Pre-contractual Explanations Checklist at the time. This contains a list 
of check boxes, presumably ticked by Mr T, under the statement I can confirm I have read 
or been provided with:. Next to one of these boxes it says:
An explanation of how much I will have to pay periodically, the interest rate and total 
amount payable under the finance agreement
So, on one hand Mr T says he was told the agreement didnt contain a balloon payment. But 
on the other, hes signed an agreement that explains the balloon payment and signed to say 
he has had an explanation of the finance.
I also need to consider that, while I wouldnt have expected Mr T to do the exact working out 
at the time, the amount Mr T says he was expecting to pay doesnt seem reasonable to me. I 
say this as the total of the monthly repayments Mr T says he was aware of and the deposit 
he paid comes to roughly £2,000 less than the cash price of the car  and this doesnt 
include any interest due.
Ive very carefully thought about everything Mr T has said. But, on balance, I havent seen 
enough to make me think its most likely he was told information at the time that directly 
contradicts the terms of the agreement he took. I think he wouldve been aware from the 
paperwork he signed that a balloon payment was due. And, in this particular case I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr T to pay less than the cars value over the term 
of the agreement and then to keep it without paying anything further.
I want to reassure Mr T that Ive very carefully considered everything else hes provided in 
relation to this complaint. I was very sorry to read about the personal circumstances Mr T 
has been dealing with, as explained by the third party. But these events occurred some time after the agreement was entered into. So this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman