DRN-2566937
The complaint
Ms N and Mr S are unhappy with Zurich Insurance PLC about the claim settlement and 
handling of a water damage claim under their home insurance policy.
Any other firms or contractors whove worked on behalf of Zurich during this claim Ill refer to 
as Zurich throughout.
What happened
Ms N and Mr S suffered water damage at their home. Mr S said that he thought the damage 
had been caused by a neighbours downpipe blocking the drain. It was accepted that there 
had been heavy rain at the time and the neighbour had been doing works at their property.
Zurich arranged expert leak detection and this uncovered damp areas in the home. It also 
said there was a failing of the damp proofing. Zurich said that it was most likely rainwater 
had caused the damage and accepted the claim for the damage inside the home under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. But it said the damage had occurred gradually over 
time and said due to the failing of the damp proofing it didnt agree to pay for any external 
damage. Zurich reviewed the recent pre-purchase survey which confirmed there was a 
damp problem at the property when Ms N and Mr S bought it. Unhappy with this, the time 
taken and general handling of their claim Ms N and Mr S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was clear from the pre-purchase 
survey that damp issues required repair or replacement. He said Zurich had used experts to 
investigate the cause of the water damage. He said as the damp proofing had likely already 
failed before the start of the policy it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Zurich to pay for this 
repair. Our investigator also said he thought the claims handling and time taken had been 
reasonable.
Ms N and Mr S didnt accept this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N and Mr S have a separate complaint in relation to the circumstances they had to live in 
and what they say Zurich shouldve done to help them. I wont refer to that issue any further 
or make any findings on it within this complaint.
Ms N and Mr S said the damp proofing should be paid for as they felt it was also damaged 
by the rainwater. They said before they purchased the property, they appointed a contractor 
to assess the property and highlight the works necessary as per the recommendation in their 
pre-purchase survey. There was no suggestion from the contractor that the damp proofing 
had failed.
Within the final response Zurich had said Your policy looks to provide cover for resultant 
damage following a one off event and not future preventative measures or issues of wear 
and tear. Burst pipes or excessive rainfall will not cause damage to an existing damp proof 
system and I am therefore satisfied that the current issues with the same are due to 
deterioration over a period of time which is not covered under your policy.
The details from the pre-purchase survey said Localised damp readings were noted to 
lower walls within the hall and rear main bedroom. These areas should be checked and 
repaired as necessary by a suitable specialist contractor.
Zurich further pointed out that the pre-purchase survey and damp report were limited to the 
accessible areas. It said the damp proofing was unlikely to be damaged by rainwater. It said 
the rainwater was most likely able to get in due to the poor condition of the damp proofing. It 
concluded that as the repairs could be carried out without effecting the damp proofing, it felt 
undertaking works to the damp proofing, that was likely to be in a poor condition before the 
policy start date, would be betterment. I accept the point that a maintained property wouldnt 
suffer damage due to rainwater. Based on the evidence provided I think thats reasonable.
Although I understand why Ms N and Mrs S felt the cost of this repair would be down to 
Zurich. I think Zurich did consider the claim reasonably and fairly. And it paid for parts it said 
were covered under the policy section for accidental damage.
Ms N and Mr S have referred to previous cases studies from our website. But each case we 
look at is reviewed on its own merits to ensure the individual circumstances are considered 
fairly and reasonably. The policy operates for specific events and as Zurich have said here 
theres no evidence of a one off event here.
Claim handling
Having reviewed the claim handling I dont think it was unreasonably delayed by Zurich. I 
think the longest delay was caused by the drying issues, but Zurich acted promptly once it 
discovered why the property wasnt drying. So, I think Zurich acted reasonably in its claim 
handling.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman