DRN-2385355
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has reported that she 
missed credit card payments to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Miss B held a Virgin Money branded credit card which was administered by Virgin Money. 
On 2 June 2020, Miss B paid off the full balance on this credit card with the intention of 
closing the credit card account. Miss B also cancelled her direct debit to the credit card 
shortly after this date.
However, on 8 June 2020, an interest calculation for the month to date was applied to the 
account. This interest was for the balance on the card for the month leading up to that date 
and was calculated daily. This meant that, while Miss B had cleared the account to a zero 
balance on 2 June 2020, interest was chargeable for the days within the period before 2 
June, when there had been a balance on the account.
This resulted in a £43.31 interest charge which meant that the account was now £43.31 in 
arrears. Virgin Money sent a statement confirming this balance to Miss B on 8 June 2020, 
and also sent a text message to Miss B on 24 June 2020 advising that Miss Bs minimum 
payment was due on the account soon. When no payment was subsequently received, 
Virgin Money recorded a late payment and applied a late payment fee.
This continued through July and into August, with statements being sent by Virgin Money on 
8 July 2020 and 9 July 2020 respectively, and the outstanding balance accruing both interest 
and late payment fees. 
On 25 August, Miss B contacted Virgin Money by phone and made a payment to clear the 
full balance so that the account could be closed. Miss B expressed her dissatisfaction with 
what had happened during this phone call, and Virgin Money refunded £9.96  equivalent to 
the final late payment fee and the final monthly accrued interest amount - as a gesture of 
goodwill at that time.
Miss B made a complaint to Virgin Money, and Virgin Money responded to this complaint on 
7 September 2020. They didnt think that they had acted improperly, and that they had 
recorded late payments correctly, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss B remained dissatisfied and so referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at this case, but while they sympathised with Miss B, they also felt that 
Virgin Money hadnt acted unfairly in recorded the missed payments, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint either.
Miss B was not happy with this view, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss B thought that she had cleared her account via the payment she 
made on 2 June 2020, and that no further action would be required. I can therefore also 
understand Miss Bs frustration at how this matter subsequently progressed.
However, as the interest on the account was calculated on a daily basis, it was entirely 
appropriate that Virgin Money conduct a final interest calculation and add this interest owed 
to the account. 
In her complaint form, Miss B stated that she made the large payment clearing the account 
on 2 June 2020 via telephone. I requested that a recording of this call be obtained from 
Virgin Money, in order to confirm what was or was not said to Miss B during this call. Virgin 
Money advised that there was no telephone call from Miss B recorded on this date, and that 
the payment made by Miss B hadnt been made via telephone.
I have no reason to doubt the testimony of Miss B, and I am aware that there can be 
instances where telephone calls are not correctly recorded. However, I have no direct cause 
to doubt Virgin Money in this instance either. I have therefore proceeded to consider the 
matter from both sides  from the standpoint of both the telephone call having taken place 
and from it not having taken place - to determine whether my decision would be different in 
either instance.
In the absence of a call recording, I have had to base my consideration of what may have 
happened during this call on the balance of probability  that is, what I believe is most likely 
to have happened, given the circumstances of the call. For instance, Miss B has explained to 
this service that she was told by Virgin Moneys representative on the telephone call that the 
account was closed immediately following her making the payment. 
However, given that Virgin Moneys representative would be a trained employee familiar with 
how credit cards worked, it seems more likely to me that Miss B would not have been told 
that her account was closed immediately, as its reasonable to conclude that the 
representative would known that a final interest amount would have needed to have been 
calculated and repaid before the account could be closed.
I note the communication issued by Virgin Money to Miss B following the calculation of 
interest on 8 June 2020. This communication, by both emailed statement and text message, 
cannot be considered as being of a poor or inappropriate standard, and is consistent with 
previous levels of communication about which Miss B has not complained. So I am satisfied 
that Virgin Money acted appropriately with regard their attempting to contact Miss B to 
advise her of the outstanding balance.
Miss B did not respond to these communications, and the required minimum payments were 
missed for both June and July.
As such, whether a telephone call between Miss B and Virgin Money took place on 2 June 
2020, or not, I cant say that Virgin Money have acted unfairly in reporting these missed 
payments. I say this because the communication from Virgin Money to Miss B sent after the 
interest calculation of 8 June 2020 was clear in this regard. 
Furthermore, when Miss B didnt make any payments, it was entirely appropriate for Virgin 
Money to report these payments as being missed. Credit card providers are required to 
make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, and Virgin Money have done so in 
this instance.I understand that this may not be the response which Miss B was hoping for, and I am not 
implying that Miss B missing these payments was in any way deliberate. Indeed, it may well 
have been the case that Miss B did think that her account was closed, because she made 
the large clearing payment on 2 June 2020. 
Unfortunately, as explained above, this didnt close Miss Bs account, and the result was the 
payments were missed. But I cant fairly say that Virgin Money did anything wrong, or acted 
unreasonably, in the way that they attempted to communicate with Miss B about the 
payments as they became due, or in the way that they reported the missed payments to the 
credit reference agencies. Because of this, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman