DRN-3552840
The complaint
Mr H complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly declined a claim made 
under his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr H or Covea includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Following an ongoing neighbour dispute, Mr H sought to make a claim on his 
buildings insurance policy. He says his neighbours building works, coupled with their 
intentional slamming of an external door had damaged his home.
Covea inspected the damage and declined the claim. It said it wasnt caused by an 
insured peril (such as malicious damage), and highlighted that Mr H hadnt taken 
accidental damage cover which it may have otherwise been covered under.
Mr H complained, saying the soured relationship between neighbours meant Covea 
should consider the actions as malicious. He also said Coveas surveyor had 
misrepresented themselves as a chartered surveyor alongside other concerns about 
their qualifications and report on his property. And he said these actions and quality 
of the report had impacted a separate civil claim he was pursuing under his legal 
expenses insurance.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He felt 
the damage in question didnt fall under any of the policy insured perils. And he 
wasnt persuaded it could be considered as malicious or that the neighbour had 
intended to cause the damage. 
The Investigator said it was unclear why the surveyor wouldve said they were a 
chartered surveyor when they werent. But in any case, the report they produced was 
for the purposes of Covea, and not for the benefit of any other party. He also felt the 
concerns Mr H had raised about the surveyors company werent relevant.
Our Investigator provided his assessment in early June 2022. Mr H replied, asking for 
an extension. He said there were further developments with the neighbours property 
that caused further damage. And he described that his own health had impacted his 
ability to reply.
The Investigator reached out to Mr H to explain the onus to prove the claim sat with 
him as a policyholder. And while there may be a difficult relationship between parties, 
that didnt appear in dispute, the Investigator wasnt persuaded the damage was 
intentional. So, the case has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
Following this, around mid-June 2022 Mr H reached out to say he wanted longer to 
reply. He referenced differing versions of a report that hed passed to his legal 
expenses insurer that he said impacted his claim. And he said Covea had failed to 
consider his circumstances or make necessary reasonable adjustments given his 
health. And he asked for a further stay for him to respond with a further argument. 
In August 2022 Mr H wrote to us again asking for a further extension.
Ive since explained to Mr H that in the circumstances, taking into account the ample 
evidence already available, and many arguments that Mr H had already put to this 
Service since first raising this complaint in July 2021, I was satisfied I would be able 
to reach a fair and reasonable outcome taking into account all of the relevant 
considerations. But I provided Mr H a final opportunity to make any submissions.
Mr H has provided further details, including carbon monoxide fumes exposed from 
his neighbours property that have impacted his health, and details of his partners 
health. Mr H reiterated his concerns that Coveas agent was misdescribed to him as 
a chartered surveyor, and the impact of this. He also provided several documents, 
including a detailed account of the history of the dispute between him and his 
neighbour, letters regarding his health, and email chains between him and police 
regarding the dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim
Mr Hs policy covers him in the event of certain perils.
In this case, Ive been given a report on the damage from one of Coveas agents. It 
details the damage in question as caused by the neighbours building works, with 
reference to some existing minor cracking as a result of age-related damage. Overall, 
the report concludes the peril that has taken place here is accidental damage.
From all of the evidence Ive been provided with, Im satisfied the most likely cause of 
the damage is the neighbours buildings works. And this doesnt appear to be 
disputed by Mr H.
On its face, Id agree that damaged caused by building works or the slamming of the 
door would usually be considered under an accidental damage part of a buildings 
insurance policy. So, I think Covea was correct in reaching the conclusion it has.
Mr Hs policy doesnt include accidental damage cover, so it follows that Covea 
wouldnt cover this damage.
Mr H hasnt provided any conflicting expert opinion, but hes argued the damage 
should be considered as malicious. I dont believe theres any dispute that theres an 
ongoing falling out between Mr H and his neighbour  and this is apparent in the 
documentation hes provided. But the damage in question has been caused by 
building works and vibrations. And I dont think it would be reasonable to interpret this 
as malicious damage given its nature. So, Im satisfied Covea has fairly and 
reasonably declined this claim in the circumstances.
The surveyor and their report
Mr H has raised concerns about whether the author (a surveyor) of a report produced 
was a chartered surveyor. Its evident the surveyor in question is not chartered, nor is 
there any requirement for them to be so. And Ive not been given anything that 
persuades me this individual wasnt suitably qualified to investigate this matter. So, 
this doesnt change my mind.Mr H has mentioned details of the surveyors business and date of incorporation. I 
think this is entirely irrelevant to this claim and Im satisfied this has no bearing on Mr 
Hs claim nor Coveas handling of it.
Mr H has commented on the reports usefulness when sharing it with his legal 
expenses insurer and related civil action. But this is nothing to do with Covea and the 
claim it is handling. So, I dont consider it has any obligation to provide Mr H with a 
report that will help an unrelated claim.
Mr H has commented that the report had to subsequently be amended, including an 
inaccuracy about a date the damage was reported. But I see no material differences 
within the amended report that impact this claim. Put simply, it outlines the cause of 
the damage, and it is this that Covea has relied upon when declining the claim.
Other issues
Mr H has referenced Coveas obligations to reasonable adjustments which he says it 
hasnt met. Ive taken into account all the relevant law when deciding this complaint, 
and Ive carefully considered Coveas handling of this claim based on what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And in the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded it hasnt handled this claim fairly or in line with what wed expect. 
However, if Mr H would like a specific decision on whether Covea has breached any 
discrimination laws, he will need to take this matter to court as it will be best placed to 
consider this.
Mr H has also mentioned further developments with the neighbour and potential 
further damage that has occurred. But  Ive only considered events that took place 
prior the Investigators view, and not any recent or live issues. So, any new 
complaints about events that followed this, will need to be first considered by Covea.
Mr H has also provided details of carbon monoxide exposure from his neighbours 
property that he says has impacted his health. But its unclear to me how this 
seemingly separate incident would have any bearing on this buildings claim for 
physical damage to his property. So, it hasnt changed my mind.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman