DRN-2237630
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. It was sold to him on the 
phone after he took out his credit card. The policy covered him in case he was off work sick 
or lost his job.
Mr P suggested that Barclays settle case by paying him £5,000. We passed this offer to 
Barclays, who have not accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, and the account has long since closed. So its 
completely unsurprising that neither side still have the original records from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules Barclays were required to dispose of Mr Ps data rather than hold 
onto it for too long. Mr P doesnt recall buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable 
given that it was so long ago, and that buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Barclays to have misled Mr P into having PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what Barclays did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably require Barclays to be able to produce evidence from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Barclays misled 
Mr P here. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, offered 
him a choice, and that he chose to take PPI at the time  though I can completely 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so many years. 
Its not clear whether Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr P, or not. If it did recommend it, 
then it had to check that the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mr P was eligible for 
the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out 
on top of his work benefits and covered him for far longer, offering him more comprehensive 
cover. So the PPI couldve been useful for Mr P in case hed needed to claim  indeed, I can 
see that he did successfully claim on the policy.
If Barclays didnt recommend the PPI, it still had to give Mr P clear information about it. 
Since I cant be sure what was said, it is possible that the information Barclays gave Mr P 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think 
better information was likely to have changed his mind. But as I said above, it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been 
useful for Mr P in case something went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr P could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out. 
Lastly, Mr P pointed out that hed had a refund of a different PPI policy, and I understand 
why he brought this up. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in 
different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So 
even if one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, 
too. We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found 
this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs to do
If it has not done so already, Barclays has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to 
Mr P any extra interest he paid because of that.
That means Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr P the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr P 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I do not 
require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman