DRN-2088812
The complaint
Mrs M complaints that her mobile phone insurance was mis-sold to her by Chubb European 
Group SE (Chubb).
What happened
Mrs M recently made a claim on her mobile phone insurance, which she pays £10.08 per 
month for. The claim was accepted, and it was decided that she would be sent a 
replacement phone. But she was also told she needed to pay a £100 excess.
Mrs M is unhappy with this. She says the replacement phone would only cost her around 
£200 and as she is unlikely to make more than one claim per year, feels the policy isnt 
worth the money and she would be better off without it. So she says the policy was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the terms of the policy had been 
laid out clearly on the contract that was signed and that the contract also made it clear that 
the excess for any successful claim is £100. So he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
Mrs M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its difficult to establish what was discussed during the sale of the mobile phone 
insurance policy and Mrs M hasnt suggested that she was misled by the person 
selling the policy or that they told her any incorrect information. So I have focussed 
mainly on the contract she signed and the terms of the policy she would have been 
given.
The agreement Mrs M signed states I agree to the purchase of Full Cover £10.08I 
will need to pay Excess Band D - £100 for each successful claim. It goes on to say 
that Mrs M confirms that she has been given the Product Information Document and 
that no recommendations were made to buy the product. Mrs M signed directly below 
this to confirm she accepted the terms of the agreement.
Mrs M has bought a policy on a non-advised basis, meaning that she made the 
decision to purchase the policy herself and the agent that sold it didnt request details 
of her personal circumstances or suggest whether this cover was suitable for her. It 
also seems clear that at the point of sale, Mrs M ought to have been aware of both 
the monthly cost of the policy and the excess payable in each claim as these are 
referred to several times throughout the policy documentation.
So, while I understand that Mrs M is unhappy that her policy now appears to be poor 
value for money in her situation, I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was 
mis-sold to her.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ms frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman