DRN-3135205
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) misadvised it about the amount it could borrow under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. 
D is represented in bringing the complaint by its liquidator.
What happened
D banked with NatWest. It applied to the bank for a small business loan of £15,000 in April 
2020. NatWest approved the application and the loan was drawn down on 29 April.
Shortly thereafter, Ds director, Mr P, queried how the loan had been set up  as it had been 
processed as a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL), which hed not requested. 
While discussions about the £15,000 loan were ongoing, D applied to NatWest for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £18,000 on 6 May. The bank declined the application on the basis that the 
company already had a CBIL and was therefore ineligible. 
After further discussion, NatWest said it would recall the £15,000 loan provided to D and 
invited Mr P to reapply for a Bounce Back Loan. Mr P submitted a second Bounce Back 
Loan application on Ds behalf the following day, asking for a loan of £50,000. NatWest 
approved the application and the loan was drawn down on 18 May. 
Mr P says that after drawing down the Bounce Back Loan, he realised that D had borrowed 
a larger amount than it had been entitled to under the rules of the Loan Scheme. He says 
the company should only have borrowed £18,000  being 25% of its annual turnover, which 
was the maximum amount that could be borrowed. Instead, it borrowed £50,000 despite not 
having a turnover of £200,000. Mr P says he only asked for this higher amount after 
NatWest advised him that the company was eligible for it, as over £200,000 could be seen 
running through the companys bank account. He says this left the company with a greater 
level of indebtedness than it shouldve had.
Mr P also says that the problems in arranging the loan caused delays in D getting the funds 
it needed, which in turn caused it to miss out on contracts for new business.
NatWest has accepted that there were errors in how it processed the initial loan, with the 
remedial action then putting D to some inconvenience. It has paid the company £700 
compensation for this. But it says that the Bounce Back Loan application was non-advised 
and self-attested  so it was up to Mr P to confirm the accuracy of the information he 
provided, including the companys turnover and the amount it wished to borrow.
One of our investigators reviewed Ds complaint but didnt recommend that NatWest take 
any further action. In summary, she said:
The £700 compensation that NatWest had already paid D was a fair way to resolve 
the issues relating to the £15,000 loan. She said shed not seen any evidence that D 
had lost out on business as a result of the delays in getting its loan.
Shed listened to some calls between Mr P and NatWest during April and May 2020, 
with some unavailable as theyd not all been recorded. Shed heard NatWest tell 
Mr P on one occasion that the application could be based on the income running 
through the account, which was £210,000  although it had also urged Mr P to seek 
some clarification before proceeding, suggesting that he speak to his accountant.
She thought Mr P ought reasonably to have known what Ds actual turnover amount 
was  with the turnover going through its NatWest account inflated by personal 
transactions. She also noted hed initially declared a turnover of £72,000 and applied 
for a loan of £18,000, which suggested that he was aware of the Loan Scheme rules 
and Ds entitlement in light of them.
It was Mr Ps responsibility to ensure that the information he provided to NatWest 
when applying for the loan was correct. The application was self-certified and Mr P 
had completed declarations confirming his understanding of this and the accuracy of 
the information that hed provided.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. While accepting that the application was self-
certified, he said that NatWest was the expert in the transaction and that it had confused him 
by introducing the account turnover of £210,000. He maintained that he wouldnt have 
applied for the larger loan of £50,000 had it not been for the banks advice. So he asked that 
an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The initial £15,000 loan
It is unclear why NatWest processed Ds original application for a loan as a CBIL rather than 
a standard business loan. But the bank has accepted that was a mistake on its part. So its 
right that D is compensated for the impact of this error.
The £15,000 loan was provided on 29 April but, as it was on the wrong terms, this had to be 
withdrawn and the Bounce Back Loan that ultimately served to replace it was provided on 18 
May. So there was a delay of around three weeks in D obtaining the funds it had requested.
Mr P says that this delay caused the company cashflow problems and lost business. While I 
dont doubt that there will have been an adverse impact on the companys plans and 
arrangements, Mr P hasnt evidenced or explained in any level of detail what losses D 
suffered. There was still a significant balance in Ds account throughout the period in 
question, even setting aside the £15,000 loan. So Ive not seen that D suffered a financial 
loss as a result of being without the loan funds.
It is clear, though, that the matter did put D to some inconvenience. Mr P had to spend time 
talking to NatWest to explain and then rectify the situation over a number of calls and 
emails  taking him away from the companys day-to-day operations. Hed asked the bank to notify him when it was going to withdraw the loan, but it didnt  so the timing came as a 
surprise, and he had to follow up on that too. 
NatWest has already paid D compensation of £700 by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience that the company was caused by its errors in handling this matter. That is as 
much as I wouldve awarded in the circumstances, so Im not requiring NatWest to do 
anything more.
The Bounce Back Loan amount
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to 25% of 
their annual turnover (up to maximum loan amount of £50,000). Applicants were required to 
complete an online application form and self-declare their eligibility for a loan under the 
Scheme. 
NatWests Bounce Back Loan application form clearly explained the turnover requirement. It 
said:
You can apply for a loan which is up to 25% of your turnover in calendar year 
2019, from a minimum of £2,000, up to a maximum of £50,000.
Mr P completed the application form. He stated that Ds turnover was £210,000 and asked to 
borrow £50,000. He also ticked a box to confirm that the loan amount was equal to or less 
than 25% of annual turnover for 2019. The application form also contained a number of 
declarations, and through one of these Mr P confirmed that the information hed provided 
was complete and accurate.
Mr P says that the company didnt have a turnover of £210,000, and in fact its turnover was 
much lower. He says it is NatWests fault that he used that figure, as he was advised to do 
so when speaking to the bank over the phone about the matter. So he says that D ended up 
with a bigger loan  and liability  than it should have done.
NatWest hasnt been able to provide recordings of all the calls it had with Mr P about the 
matter, unfortunately. From those that are available, I think there is only one of particular 
relevance to this aspect of Ds complaint. In a call on 15 May, Mr P explained to a NatWest 
adviser that he was looking to complete the Bounce Back Loan application now that the 
CBIL had been withdrawn but was seeking clarification as to the turnover figure that he could 
use. He relayed a previous conversation with a NatWest manager, who he said had told him 
that the banks records showed an annual turnover of £210,000 going through the 
companys account that could be used to support its Bounce Back Loan application. The 
adviser confirmed the £210,000 figure held on NatWests systems, but didnt say that it was 
the right one for Mr P to use when declaring Ds turnover. She pointed out that the £210,000 
was the total of transactions running through the account, whereas it was the companys 
turnover for the last year that needed to be declared. She also highlighted the risk in 
declaring a higher figure than was accurate and suggested that Mr P consult his accountant. 
And she said she would arrange for another adviser to contact Mr P to go through things 
with him, although it is unclear if that happened. Mr P submitted Ds application later that 
day.
There was clearly some discussion between NatWest and Mr P where the bank introduced 
the £210,000 figure and suggested that this indicated D was eligible for a loan amount 
greater than the £18,000 it had originally applied for. But, based on the evidence Ive been 
provided with, I dont think NatWest instructed Mr P to use that figure. Ive heard that 
NatWest explained how the account turnover figure differed and why it might not be 
appropriate to use it. Ultimately, it was still up to Mr P to complete the application form accurately. The form asked 
a clear question to which Mr P evidently knew the answer  hed previously declared a 
turnover figure of £72,000 when first applying for a Bounce Back Loan, and said on the call 
mentioned above that the companys turnover was only £80,000. He chose to use the 
£210,000 account turnover figure that NatWest had quoted to him, when I think he ought 
reasonably to have known that this wasnt accurate. There was a significant discrepancy, 
accounted for principally by funds being transferred between accounts.
As a result, I dont think it is down to an error on NatWests part that D provided an 
inaccurate turnover figure in its application and ended up borrowing more than it was eligible 
for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman