DRN-3440425
The complaint
Mr K complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a medical expenses claim he made on
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr K booked a holiday abroad through a travel agent Ill call T. At the
same time, he took out a travel insurance policy through T to cover his trip. The policy was
underwritten by AWP P&C SA. Mr K travelled abroad as planned a short while later.
Unfortunately, while Mr K was away, he became ill and was admitted to hospital with
pneumonia. He incurred significant medical expenses and so he made a medical expenses
claim on his travel insurance policy.
Mr K told us that AWP turned down the claim because it said that the pneumonia hed
suffered from was linked to an existing diagnosis of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
(COPD). It said Mr K hadnt declared his COPD to its medical screening line and it hadnt
agreed to cover the condition. It told Mr K that the policy didnt cover medical expenses
claims which were linked to a policyholders pre-existing medical conditions unless it had
agreed to cover the existing conditions.
Unhappy with AWPs decision, Mr K asked us to look into his complaint. Despite our
requests, AWP didnt send us a copy of its complaint file and Mr K told us that he hadnt
been sent a copy of the policy terms and conditions or a final response to his complaint.
On that basis, our investigator recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He felt
that the provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012
should apply to Mr Ks claim. He said that in order for an insurer to show a policyholder had
made a misrepresentation to it, the insurer needed to demonstrate itd asked the
policyholder a clear question which the policyholder hadnt taken reasonable care to answer.
In this case, he didnt think AWP had shown that itd asked Mr K a clear question and so he
didnt think it could fairly turn down the claim. He recommended that AWP should pay the
claim, together with interest.
AWP didnt respond to the assessment or provide any evidence.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why, 
based on the evidence I had available, I didnt think it had been fair for AWP to turn down  
Mr Ks claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, in the absence of
any other available evidence, Mr Ks version of events and what I think is most likely to have
happened.
It's important I make clear that I dont think CIDRA applies to this circumstances of this case.
I say that because Mr K didnt go through any kind of screening with AWP. Hes said he was
never told that the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions or that these needed to
be declared to AWP. Mr K says he never made any kind of representation about his health
to AWP and in fact, he had no direct dealings with AWP until he came to make a claim. Mr K
took out the policy through T, an independent company. T was responsible for highlighting
any significant restrictions on the policy cover at the point of sale. This means AWP isnt
responsible for any of Ts actions during the policy sale.
However, based on Mr Ks testimony about what happened, which I find plausible and
persuasive, I think his complaint should be upheld for other reasons. Mr K said his claim was
turned down because AWP considered his diagnosis of pneumonia was linked to COPD.
Unfortunately, I dont have a copy of any relevant medical reports which set out the treating
hospital teams diagnosis and whether it made any link between COPD and pneumonia.
Neither do I have the medical assistance teams notes and so I cant ascertain what, if any,
input AWPs clinical team had into the claims decision. And in the absence of the exact
policy terms, I dont know exactly what policy term AWP relied on to turn down this claim.
Ive looked online at a copy of the current terms which apply to policies sold through T and
which are underwritten by AWP. I find its likely that the terms are broadly similar and so Ive
considered these when assessing this complaint. The medical expenses section of the policy
contains the following exclusion:
The insurer shall not pay for any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting
from, or in connection with:
A pre-existing medical condition unless the insurer has agreed to provide cover and you
have paid any additional premium required.
A pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
Any respiratory condition (relating to the lungs or breathing), heart condition, stroke, Crohns
disease, epilepsy, allergy, cancer, psychiatric or psychological condition (including anxiety,
stress and depression for which you have received treatment (including surgery, tests or
investigations by your doctor or a consultant/specialist or prescribed medication) in the last
five years.
Any medical condition for which you have received surgery, in-patient treatment or
investigations in a hospital or clinic within the last 12 months, or are prescribed medication.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim
on their policy, which is down to something a policy covers. In this case, Im satisfied Mr K
did incur medical expenses due to an illness while he was abroad. If AWP wishes to rely on
an exclusion to turn down the claim, the burden of proof shifts and its for AWP to show the
exclusion applies.
In this case, Ive seen no persuasive medical evidence to demonstrate that Mr Ks
pneumonia was caused directly or indirectly by his COPD. Mr K seems to accept he suffered
from COPD, so Ive made the reasonable assumption that this diagnosis falls within the
definition of a pre-existing medical condition. While I acknowledge COPD is a respiratory
condition, I dont think AWP has shown a link between COPD and Mr Ks pneumonia. In the
absence of medical evidence, either from the treating hospital, which links these conditions
or evidence from AWPs Chief Medical Officer which states that on the balance of
probabilities, Mr Ks pneumonia was more likely than not linked to COPD, I dont find AWP
has demonstrated that this exclusion can fairly be applied to Mr Ks claim.
So I currently dont think AWP has treated Mr K fairly and I dont think it was fair for AWP toturn down Mr Ks claim. This means I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome here is
for AWP to reassess Mr Ks claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
AWP told our investigator it had received a copy of my provisional decision. But it didnt 
provide any response or further evidence by the further deadline we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or comments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reassess Mr Ks claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman