DRN-3645613
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed her account without notice.
Background
In June 2022, Monzo took the decision to block and then review Miss Cs account. As a 
result of its review, Monzo decided to close Miss Cs account with immediate effect. Miss C 
complained about Monzos actions. Monzo didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. As Miss C 
remained dissatisfied, Miss C referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards     
Miss C and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss C, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss C is unhappy 
that Monzo closed her account. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer with 
an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. 
Miss C says she was told that her account would be unblocked within 24 hours. But Monzo 
said it would carry out its review within this period and having looked at matters, Im satisfied 
that it did do so. Furthermore, while Miss C is unhappy that her account was closed without 
notice, Ive reviewed Monzos actions and Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Monzo had sufficient grounds to close Miss Cs account and as such its 
decision to block and then close it wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Monzos 
decision will have been very disappointing to Miss C and I can appreciate why the closure of 
her account will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position 
to be able to tell Monzo it should have continued offering Miss C an account in 
circumstances where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide her with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Miss C has said that while the remaining funds from her account were 
returned to the bank that sent the original payment these havent been returned to the friend 
that sent them to her in the first place. But Im satisfied that Monzo has returned the funds in 
question to the third-party bank. And if Miss Cs friend believes that her bank is refusing to 
return funds which belong to her then this is a matter that she has to take up with her own 
bank and I dont think that this means Monzo acted unfairly to Miss C either. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Monzo has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss C and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Monzo was entitled to close her account in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman