Complaint
Mr H and Miss H are representing the estate of the late Mr J. Theyre complaining about 
Vitality Life Limited (Vitality) because it didnt pay out on Mr Js life insurance policy 
following his death. Theyre also dissatisfied with the way the claim was handled.
What happened
In 2018, Mr J took out a level term life insurance policy with Vitality through an independent 
broker. The broker submitted his application, which included the answers to questions about 
his health, online.
Sadly, Mr J died approximately two months after the policy started. Vitality didnt pay out 
because it said relevant information about his health wasnt disclosed in his application. If 
the application had been answered correctly, Vitality said it wouldnt have offered Mr J cover. 
It cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums that had been paid. But it did offer Mr H 
and Mrs H compensation of £150 each for the unnecessary trouble and upset caused 
because of the way the claim was handled.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Mr Js medical records 
showed the application wasnt completed correctly and was satisfied Vitality wouldnt have 
offered cover if it had been. As a result, he was satisfied Vitality was entitled to decline the 
claim. In terms of how the claim was handled, the investigator said we cant compensate 
third parties but he did note the offer Vitality had made.
Mr H and Miss H didnt accept the investigators assessment and said there are unanswered 
questions. Theyve said its far too coincidental that Mr J, who already had cover with 
another insurer, was contacted so close to his death by a broker who told him he could get a 
better deal. Theyve also pointed out that Mr J didnt actually complete the health 
questionnaire himself and questioned whether the broker completing it on his behalf was 
fraudulent. In terms of how the claim was handled, theyve also said they were told more 
than once by Vitality that the claim was small and it would just pay out.
Mr H and Miss H have also made a separate complaint about the broker who sold the policy 
and thats being considered by our investigator separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im not upholding it.
DRN-1862441Before going any further, I offer Mr H and Miss H my sincere condolences for their loss at 
what I realise must still be a difficult time.
Mr J applied for his policy through an independent broker. Vitality acted simply as the 
insurance provider and it was responsible for making sure the policy was set up in line with 
the instructions contained in the application it received. It wasnt responsible for the accuracy 
of the information in the application. That was down to Mr J and the broker.
The application was submitted by the broker online, which means the broker also completed 
submitted the answers to questions about Mr Js health. This is common practice in the 
industry. Its not fraudulent and Vitality was entitled to rely on the information it was given. 
The broker did have a responsibility to obtain Mr Js consent to submitting the application on 
his behalf and to make sure the information entered in the application accurately reflected 
what Mr J told him. Thats something our investigator will need to consider when 
investigating the complaint against the broker. 
The application included a series of questions about Mr Js health and disclosed some 
health issues, including diabetes and arthritis. But it also asked the following questions:
Have you ever had or do you currently have any of the following . . . Heart disease or 
disorder, including Heart attack, angina, cardiomyopathy, heart murmur, heart valve 
defect or heart surgery or procedure?
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the 
following in the last 5 years . . . Any respiratory or lung disorder, including asthma, 
bronchitis, COPD (COAD), emphysema, bronchiectasis or sleep apnoea?
 
The application said no to both questions. In contrast, Mr Js medical records show that he 
had a heart attack and bypass surgery in 2014. Also that he suffered from progressive 
pulmonary fibrosis and pulmonary hypertension. In my view, the questions were clear and 
both should have been answered differently with information about these conditions 
disclosed.
Its also important to recognise that Vitality has provided a copy of a confirmation schedule it 
says was sent to Mr J after the application was received in line with its normal procedure. 
This contained the information contained in the application, including the answers given to 
the medical questions, and the covering letter emphasised he should check its accuracy and 
let it know of any errors. Vitality says it has no record of receiving a response from Mr J and 
in the circumstances, Im satisfied it was entitled to believe the information it had been given 
was correct.
When an application doesnt include relevant information in response to a clear question, 
this is known as a misrepresentation. The relevant law, as set out in the Consumer 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), and supporting industry guidance 
issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), recognises different types of 
misrepresentation and details the actions an insurer can take depending on the type of 
misrepresentation that took place.
Im conscious the application did include details of some health problems so I dont think Mr 
J deliberately tried to mislead anybody. But if hed checked it, I do think he should have 
realised the information in the application wasnt correct and taken action to correct it. In the 
circumstances, I think its appropriate to class the misrepresentation as careless.
In cases of careless misrepresentation, the law entitles the insurer to restore the position 
that would have existed if it had been given the correct information at the outset. In this case, Vitality has provided evidence from its underwriters that it wouldnt have offered Mr J cover if 
it had known about the various conditions that werent disclosed. And in my experience, 
given his age and the length of time the policy was to cover him, thats in line with what Id 
have expected an insurer to say.
On the basis Vitality wouldnt have offered cover if it had been given the correct information, 
Im satisfied it was entitled to decline the claim, cancel the policy and refund the premiums 
paid.
I wouldnt expect an insurer to routinely request and check a policyholders medical records 
before paying a claim and the reason for asking medical questions at application stage is to 
avoid that being necessary. But in view of the fact Mr J died so soon after the policy was 
taken and the cause of death recorded on his death certificate, I think it was reasonable for 
Vitality to believe there may have been a misrepresentation and to make further enquiries.
Mr H and Miss H have also complained about the way their claim was handled and the 
length of time it took to resolve. Vitality has accepted it should have dealt with things better 
and that it would have answered the claim sooner if it had, and I realise any unnecessary 
delay in resolving the claim would have been particularly upsetting for Mr H and Miss H at a 
time when they had suffered such a loss. 
But a failure in the claims process doesnt impact my decision about whether the claim 
should be paid. Also, I cant award Mr H and Miss H compensation for their trouble and 
upset as I can only make an award to a customer of the business being complained about. 
Nonetheless, Im pleased to see Vitality has at least recognised its failings and offered some 
compensation. Its not clear whether Mr H and Miss H have received this money yet. But if 
they havent, they can contact Vitality directly if they now want to accept it.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H and Mrs H and isnt what 
they were hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Vitality was entitled 
to decline the claim on the policy and I hope the explanation Ive provided at last helps them 
to understand the reasons for that view.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
James Biles
Ombudsman