DRN-3069706
The complaint
Mr S complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited declined his income protection claim 
because it was made outside the timeframe given in the policy terms.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy terms say that Standard Life wont accept any claim where it hasnt 
received a completed claim form within 90 days of the end of the deferred period. 
Mr S stopped work in July 2018. The deferred period ended on 11 September 2018; 
however Standard Life wasnt notified of the claim until July 2019. 
This service usually says that it wouldnt be fair for an insurer to rely on a late 
notification clause to turn down a claim, unless the insurer has been unfairly 
prejudiced by the late notification. In other words, it wouldnt be able to properly 
assess the claim because of the delay.
For a claim to be payable, Mr S needs to show that he met the definition of incapacity 
during the deferred period. 
If there were no medical evidence available around the time of the deferred period, 
then I might have agreed with Standard Life that the late notification meant that it was 
prevented from assessing the claim. However, I see that Mr S visited his GP leading 
up to the deferred period, during this, and also afterwards. I also note that Mr S says 
that hed attended one-to-one counselling sessions, though I dont know when those 
sessions took place. 
Standard Life says that if it had been notified of the claim in a timely manner, it 
couldve attempted to explore other avenues to assess Mr Ss function during the 
deferred period, and it cant now do so. I accept this, and so in that respect, I think 
the late notification has disadvantaged Mr S. But that doesnt mean that Standard 
Life doesnt have enough information to make a claims decision. 
I therefore dont think itd be fair for Standard Life to rely on the late notification 
clause to turn down the claim. It should now make a claims decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Standard Life Assurance Limited to 
make a claims decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman