DRN-4230660
The complaint
Mr T complains that MBNA Limited mis-managed his credit card account, which resulted in 
negative information being recorded on his credit file. 
Mr T is represented in this complaint by a power of attorney. For ease of reference, Ill refer 
to Mr Ts representative as his attorney. 
What happened
Mr T holds a credit card account with MBNA Limited (MBNA). Mr Ts attorney complained 
to them in October 2022 saying that she was shocked to discover that MBNA had marked   
Mr Ts credit file with late payments when this hadnt been discussed with her. Mr Ts 
attorney said that she had agreed a payment plan with MBNA and had discussed Mr Ts 
vulnerable medical state with them. She asked MBNA to amend Mr Ts credit file to the 
position it had been before February 2021. 
MBNA didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and so the matter was referred to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said, in summary, that 
MBNA had acted fairly in trying to establish Mr Ts circumstances with a view to agreeing a 
long-term payment plan and that they hadnt been given the information they needed. So, he 
felt that MBNA hadnt made an error in recording a default on Mr Ts credit file and noted that 
regular payments hadnt been made to the account.
Mr Ts attorney didnt agree and said we hadnt taken into account Mr Ts vulnerability and 
that MBNA should have treated him appropriately in view of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts attorney said that Mr T had been making payments to his credit card account without 
any issues until February 2021 when Mr T suffered significant ill health. This led to Mr T 
missing some payments. 
Mr Ts attorney said she contacted MBNA and provided all of Mr Ts medical records and 
details of his income and expenditure, in order to set up a suitable payment plan. However, 
she feels that MBNA mis-managed Mr Ts account which led to missed payment markers 
and a subsequent default being recorded on his credit file.
MBNAs position is that they tried on several occasions to contact Mr Ts attorney so they 
could put in an appropriate payment plan, but they werent able to get all the information they 
needed.
MBNA were aware that Mr T was vulnerable. So, they had, and indeed still have, an 
obligation to ensure that they provided Mr T with a level of care appropriate to Mr Ts specific 
circumstances and that they treated him fairly. 
Its not disputed that Mr T began to miss a few payments from February 2021 onwards. Ive 
looked at his account statements (as provided by MBNA) and can see that no payments 
were received between February 2021 and the end of May 2021. Ive seen that MBNA sent 
Mr T letters in March 2021, June 2021 and July 2021 encouraging him to contact them to 
discuss what support they could give him. I note also that MBNA said in these letters that 
they stopped adding interest to the account temporarily to give Mr T time to consider his 
options. So, I feel that MBNA acted fairly and reasonably at that point by encouraging 
contact and by taking steps not to increase Mr Ts debt. 
I can then see that MBNA asked Mr Ts attorney to provide them with income and 
expenditure details and that this was received in September 2021. According to MBNAs 
account records, it seems that they had some questions about certain aspects of that. 
However, there doesnt seem to be a clear picture of what happened for several months. Ive 
not seen copies of MBNAs attempts to contact Mr T or his attorney about the income and 
expenditure details. And I think at this point Mr Ts attorney felt a payment plan was in place 
for £100 each month as payments of that amount were made after September 2021. 
However, I also note that the £100 payments were missed on subsequent occasions, in 
February 2022, March 2022 August 2022 and November 2022. This is what ultimately led 
MBNA to default Mr Ts account in December 2022. I can see from MBNAs notes that they 
tried to contact Mr Ts attorney on a few occasions prior to this happening, as they appeared 
not to have Mr Ts completed income and expenditure details to hand.
I fully appreciate what Mr Ts attorney has said about Mr Ts vulnerability and how this and 
her own job impacted on her ability to deal with Mr Ts account with MBNA. Clearly, this has 
been very difficult for them and Im very sorry to learn of that. And I in no way wish to place 
any blame on them as to what happened with this account. But overall, Im not satisfied that 
MBNA mis-managed Mr Ts account. 
It seems that there was some confusion between the parties as to what was in place and 
what information had been sent and what was still needed. Mr T now has adverse 
information on his credit file which has, and will, negatively affect his credit history. But I do 
think that MBNA tried to offer support as well as forbearance at appropriate times and Im 
not persuaded that they failed to appropriately consider Mr Ts vulnerability. I also find that 
MBNA were entitled to record the missed payments on Mr Ts credit file bearing in mind 
payments were being missed. And I think that MBNA were entitled to default Mr Ts account 
in view of those missed payments. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding this complaint. I would though remind 
MBNA of their obligation towards Mr Ts vulnerability in how they contact him and his 
attorney and how the balance of the account is reduced and cleared, if a balance remains 
outstanding currently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman