DRN-1592936
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
Mr T entered into a HPA with Startline in July 2018 to acquire a used car. At the time of 
acquisition the car was over seven years old and had been driven over 85,000 miles.
Mr T says that he experienced several issues with the car in the first few months. Repairs 
were carried out in October 2018, but further issues arose. Mr T contacted Startline in 
January 2019 about the issues. He explained that he had taken the car back to the supplying 
dealer on three previous occasions, but the engine management light had come back on. He 
said the dealer wasnt prepared to carry out any further repairs.
Startline initially said that Mr T had raised the issues with the car more than six moths after 
acquisition. It then said this wasnt correct. It arranged for an independent inspection of the 
car. Based on this and the mileage Mr T had been able to cover, it didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that the evidence showed that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply or that the repairs carried out in 
October 2018 had failed.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators view. He said the issues had arisen after the first month 
and he had raised them within the first six months. Mr T said that given when the issues 
arose repairs should have been carried out. He said that he was caused unnecessary delay 
being passed between different departments.
As a resolution hasnt been reached, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to consider and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T acquired a used car through a HPA with Startline. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Startline can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable 
person would expect taking into account all the circumstances.
Mr T entered the HPA in July 2018. The car passed a MOT on 11 July 2018 
suggesting it was road worthy at the time of acquisition.
When Mr T acquired his car, it was over seven years old and had been driven over 
85,000 miles. Given the age and mileage it would be expected that the car would 
have suffered wear and tear and it is possible with older cars that issues can arise 
shortly after acquisition even if they werent present at the point of supply.
Mr T has said that he experienced issues a month after acquisition. Under the 
regulations, if a fault is found within the first 30 days it can be possible for the 
consumer to exercise their short term right to rejection. I have nothing to show that 
Mr T experienced faults and requested to reject the car within that period. 
Repairs were carried out in October 2018 by the dealer. The job card for these 
records a high pressure fuel pump being fitted. Then, in January 2019, Mr T 
contacted Startline (after had previously contacting the dealer the week prior) about 
issues with the car including a knocking noise. 
Initially Startline said that Mr T had raised his concerns more than six months after 
acquiring the car. I have listened to the calls between Mr T and Startline and can 
hear how upset Mr T was by being told he hadnt raised his issues within the first six 
months. Startline then agreed that Mr T had raised his concerns within the first six 
months and arranged for an independent inspection report to take place. I find this 
reasonable. 
There are two aspects that needed to be addressed. First whether the repairs carried 
out in October 2018 had been successful. Second if the issues raised in early 2019 
were present for the point of supply. A diagnostics report was provided dated 
February 2019. This listed several issues, but these were different to those that were 
recorded on the October 2018 job card. Based on this, and the comments in the 
independent inspection report, I find it more likely than not that the repairs carried out 
in October 2018 had been successful and the issues Mr T reported in early 2019 
were new issues.
The independent inspection reported no warning lights being on. It recorded a noise 
coming from the car and the inspector said the most likely cause was a worn wheel 
bearing. He didnt think this issue would have been present from the point of supply.
Given the information provided in the independent inspection report and noting that 
Mr T had been able to drive over 11,000 miles since acquisition I do not find I have 
enough evidence to say that the issues Mr T raised in early 2019 were present from 
the point of supply.
Overall, while that there are issues with Mr Ts car and I can understand how upsetting it 
must be to experience issues a few months after acquisition, I cannot say the repairs carried 
out in October 2018 had failed and I do not have evidence to suggest the issues raised after 
this were present from the point of supply. I sympathise with Mr T both regarding the issues 
he has experienced with the car and that he feels he has been passed from one place to 
another while trying to deal with is complaint. But, based on the evidence I have seen, I do 
not find that I have enough to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Therefore, I do not find that I can uphold this complaint. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE 
LIMITED.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman