DRN-2727687
The complaint
Mr S isnt happy that Lloyds sent a security text message to his ex-partner. Her mobile 
number was listed as a secondary number on his bank account. Mr S and his ex-partner 
have a child together. And Lloyds actions have made their relationship difficult. To resolve 
his complaint, Mr S wants Lloyds to pay him £1,000 compensation. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr S used his debit card to make a purchase of £1,000. This was to buy 
a new mobile phone. This purchase was flagged by Lloyds for additional security. For this to 
be authorised, Lloyds sent a text message asking Mr S to confirm that it was him completing 
this purchase.
But instead of sending this text message to Mr S, Lloyds sent this to his ex-partner. Her 
number was listed on Mr S account as an additional contact and had been for several years. 
When she received this text message, she contacted him asking what the purchase was for. 
He told her that this must be fraud. So she responded to Lloyds saying she didnt recognise 
the transaction and it was cancelled.
Mr S complained to Lloyds about this. He told them that he doesnt discuss his finances with 
his ex-partner, and she was questioning how he had £1,000 to spend. The phone was a 
Christmas present for her, and after he gave this to her, they had a disagreement on 
Christmas Day as she didnt want this phone. They had a further disagreement about their 
child. This caused him to feel very stressed and Mr S now has a phone thats not needed.   
In their final response to this complaint, Lloyds said:
The text message sent to the wrong number didnt say who the debit card belonged 
to. 
They believed that human error caused the wrong contact number to be listed as the 
primary contact number and apologised for this.
They couldnt agree to pay Mr S £1,000 compensation he asked for. But they offered 
him £150 for their mistake, which they felt was fair.
Mr S wasnt happy with this amount and referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what both parties said and felt the £150 offered by Lloyds was a fair amount of 
compensation. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He says hes been severely affected by Lloyds 
mistake and £150 doesnt make up for this. He now has a phone he doesnt need, and he 
thinks Lloyds should pay for this.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds dont dispute they got something wrong. And theyve taken steps to ensure this error 
doesnt happen again. So what I need to consider is whether the compensation theyve 
offered Mr S is fair.
An award of compensation isnt intended to punish a business for their mistake. Its to make 
up for any trouble and upset the mistake has caused.
Mr S has told us that he and his ex-partner had disagreed about the money he was providing 
for their child. So I understand that her receiving a text, intended for him, asking him to 
confirm he was making a £1,000 purchase, may well have caused some difficulties between 
them.
But I also have to take into account that Mr S has told us the phone was intended as a 
present for his ex-partner. And he told Lloyds she was questioning how he had £1,000 to 
spend. But this is something I think shed have asked when he gave her the phone. 
So while I accept Lloyds shouldnt have tried to contact Mr S on the wrong number, I dont 
think theyre responsible for the problems that arose between him and his ex-partner.
So I think £150 Lloyds have offered is a fair level of compensation for the trouble and upset 
Mr S has suffered as a result of their actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC, as I think 
£150 compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman