DRN-4214304
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked his account when he was 
wrongly accused of fraud.
What happened
Mr H is a taxi driver. He has explained that, in May 2022, he picked up a drunk passenger 
who was then sick in his taxi. He charged the passenger a cleaning fee, which he paid by 
card to his business account with another bank. But the passenger then could not find his 
card to pay the fare. Mr H therefore provided the passenger with his personal bank details, 
so he could make a mobile payment. He says that the passenger paid a generous tip on top 
of the fare, to thank Mr H. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr Hs account received two further payments, for 10p and 1p, from the 
same account. They were accompanied by messages suggesting that Mr H was guilty of 
fraud and threatening to involve the police. The account holder contacted his own bank to 
challenge all three payments. 
When the bank which had sent the payments contacted NatWest, it blocked Mr Hs account 
while the transactions were investigated. The restrictions on Mr Hs account were lifted in 
early June 2022, some four weeks after they had been applied. 
Mr H complained that he had been treated unfairly. The accusations made against him had 
caused him a great deal of stress and anxiety, to the extent that he had had to miss the 
Platinum Jubilee in London  his wife having been successful in the draw for tickets for the 
party. He was upset too that bank staff had warned him against using his personal account 
for business payments.
The bank paid Mr H £75 to compensate him for missing the Jubilee party. Otherwise, 
however, it said that it had acted within the accounts terms and conditions and had treated 
Mr H fairly. 
Mr H didnt agree and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator thought that , 
whilst the bank was right to restrict the account in the way it did, the restrictions should have 
been lifted sooner then they had been. She recommended that NatWest pay Mr H an 
additional £100 in recognition of that, along with interest on the account balance. Once it had 
clarified what the investigator intended, the bank agreed to her recommendation of a 
payment of £100.    
Mr H did not however think that the investigators recommendation went far enough. He 
sought a six-figure sum in compensation, and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should say that I accept Mr Hs account of events. I believe that he did provide 
the passenger with his account details when the passenger could not find his card and that 
he did so because he knew his personal account details but not his business account 
details. That meant that the passenger could pay for the taxi he had used. I have no reason 
to think that Mr H acted fraudulently or took a payment that the passenger had not 
authorised. 
I do not have access to the sending banks exchanges with its own customer, but it would 
appear that it accepted too that all three payments had been properly authorised. It may be 
that the passenger challenged the first payment because he didnt remember making it or 
because he thought it was excessive. It seems however that the second and third payments 
(for 10p and 1p) were made so that the payer could send intimidating messages to Mr H. 
I dont believe however that any of that was the fault of NatWest. 
Having received a report from the sending bank that its customer was challenging the 
payments, I dont believe that NatWest had any realistic option other than to restrict Mr Hs 
account. It had no way of knowing until they had been investigated whether the allegations 
made by the passenger were true. That is, it could not know at the outset whether the 
payments were fraudulent. Equally, it could not have known whether, if they were fraudulent, 
Mr H was complicit. It could only decide that once it, and the sending bank, had completed 
their investigations. It was reasonable to restrict the account while those investigations were 
carried out. 
I dont believe it was unreasonable either for bank staff to point out that personal accounts 
should not be used for business purposes. They would not have known the circumstances in 
which Mr H had taken a one-off payment. Mr H has been able to explain what happened, 
and it does not appear that the bank has taken any further action as a result. 
The investigator thought that NatWest should have contacted Mr H sooner than it did and 
that, had it done so, the account review would have been completed around ten days sooner 
than it was. She recommended an award of £100 in recognition of that. The bank accepted 
that recommendation, but Mr H didnt. I need to consider therefore whether I ought to award 
more than that. 
Mr H has explained that he suffered anxiety as a result of what happened. I do not doubt that 
he did. However, it seems to me that the main reason for that was the actions of his 
passenger, in particular in using further bank transfers to make additional allegations of fraud 
and to send him intimidating and threatening messages. As I have said though, that was not 
the fault of NatWest.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service publishes on its website information about the awards 
we make for distress and inconvenience, or non-financial loss. I am satisfied that the 
recommendation of £100 (in addition to the £75 which the bank has already paid) is fair and 
reasonable in this case and is line with awards made in similar circumstances. There is no 
basis for making a six-figure award. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont believe that there are 
grounds for awarding interest on the account balance, other than any credit interest already 
due under the account terms.         
I note that Nat West has agreed to make a payment of £100, but I will make an award in that 
sum, so that Mr H can enforce it, should he need to do so.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Hs complaint in full, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay him £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman