DRN-3658536
The complaint
Mrs D complains on behalf of limited company N about The New India Assurance 
Company Limiteds decision to decline a claim for contents following an escape of water at 
Ns commercial premises.
What happened
Following a leak at Ns premises in June 2020, Mrs D made a claim to New India for the 
damage caused. Loss adjusters were brought in to assess the damage and validate the 
claim. A settlement of £5,581.43 was offered for damaged contents in September 2020.
In 2021, Mrs D submitted a list of final contents, requesting that they be added to the claim. 
New India declined the claim for the additional contents, saying a condition of the policy, 
requiring immediate action to be taken to minimise loss or damage, hadnt been complied 
with. It says the contents were left in damp conditions and this caused them to deteriorate. 
Mrs D disagreed with New Indias decision and complained. New India maintained its 
position, saying the insured hadnt taken reasonable steps to comply with its contractual 
obligations in respect of mitigating and minimising the loss. Mrs D remained unhappy with 
New Indias response, so she referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He said that from 
the information available to him, he was of the view that Mrs D had acted as quickly as she 
could to remove items from the property to prevent further damage occurring. And for the 
inconvenience caused by the poor service, including a failure to clearly and properly respond 
to Mrs Ds complaint, our investigator also recommended New India pay £150 
compensation.
New India disagreed with our investigators assessment, saying the additional contents were 
only identified 8 months after the loss and werent inspected by the loss adjuster. It also 
didnt agree with the level of compensation recommended, and said although there was 
some confusion, a final response letter was issued in relation to the complaint.
Because New India didnt agree with our investigators recommendation, the complaint has 
now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint in line with our investigators recommendations. 
Ill explain why.
Ive considered carefully New Indias position and the policy condition its referred to when 
declining the claim for the additional contents. This says:
Immediate action must be taken to minimise loss and avoid interruption or interference with 
the Business and to prevent further loss damage or bodily injury.
I can appreciate why New India has based its declinature of the claim for additional contents 
on this general policy condition. However, looking at the timeline of events and the 
numerous emails between the parties, I can see in several emails during November 2020 to 
New India in which it was specifically asked to arrange storage for items, or stipulate where 
in the policy this was excluded from cover. I dont think New India was as clear as it couldve 
been when responding to those emails.
Ive also seen a report from December 2020 which states that the insured did provide 
estimates for the storage of the contents which is required in order for them to be able to 
strip out the property and complete the repairs. Insurers have declined cover for this. 
Taking into account everything Ive seen, I consider that the delay in agreeing storage 
arrangements for the earlier claimed items caused issues with access and this contributed 
directly to the delay in identifying further items damaged due to the leak. A further email to 
New India from the claims handlers regarding the additional items says they were all 
damaged by the water during the initial incident Not as a result of moisture but direct water 
contact. And Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that this isnt the case or that 
the contents were left in damp conditions which led to their deterioration. Everything Ive 
seen suggests the additional items were affected by the initial escape of water, such as the 
electrical items stored beneath the stage or in the basement  many of which were 
described as being full of water and beyond economical repair.
So I dont agree, from reading the above-mentioned emails and the loss adjusters reports, 
that Mrs D was solely responsible for delaying the storage of contents or that she failed to 
identify and remove the further items in a timely manner. As the reports state: The property 
has a large amount of contents that require to be put into safe storage to facilitate the 
proposed building repairs. This also indicates to me that New India wouldve been aware 
that the need for storage of the items was crucial to prevent further damage and enable 
repairs to go ahead.
A separate complaint about the issue of storage was considered by this service and our 
investigator recommended New India pay £350 compensation for failing to progress matters 
in light of the fact that memorabilia had to be removed into storage before proper access 
could be gained and repairs could be progressed. Our investigator also said in that 
complaint that although storage wasnt covered by the policy, he didnt feel New Indias 
position had been helpful  and as New India was responsible for carrying out a lasting and 
effective repair, it shouldve realised the importance of memorabilia needing to go into 
storage before this could be done. And it therefore wouldve been fair and reasonable for it 
to offer to help with this to progress matters, and in order to carry out a lasting and effective 
repair. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied in this case that although it was the insureds responsibility 
to mitigate its losses, New India couldve adopted a more helpful approach to enable it to 
place items in storage more quickly. And that the access issues caused by this delay, in turn 
caused a delay in identifying additional items that needed to be removed. Im also not 
satisfied that N failed to mitigate its losses because Im not persuaded that items were left to 
deteriorate in damp conditions, when its likely those items were damaged by the initial leak.
A new final response letter wasnt issued in a clear and timely manner by New India, 
regarding Ns complaint about the additional contents claim. Mrs D brought a new complaint 
about this matter to this service in October 2021 but the final response about those issues is 
dated May 2022, some 7 months later. And although I cannot award compensation for distress to a company, as it isnt a natural person that can experience distress, I am able to 
award compensation for inconvenience caused to N, as I consider the time spent by Mrs D 
in pursuing the issue of storage costs and the claim for the additional contents wouldve 
diverted her attention away from normal day to day activities including business activities. 
So, taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator and Ill now require New 
India to pay the recommended compensation and deal with the claim for the additional 
contents, in line with the remaining policy terms. Given the issue of underinsurance, Mrs D 
should be aware that any settlement for the additional contents may also be subject to an 
average (ie. a reduction due to the underinsurance).
Putting things right
The New India Assurance Company Limited must now:
- Deal with the claim for additional contents raised in 2021, in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions.
- Pay £150 to N for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct The New India Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman