DRN-3796695
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Think Money Limited unreasonably refused to refund disputed 
transactions on her bank account which she said were made fraudulently. 
What happened
When Miss C was abroad in May 2022, she said she noticed transactions she didnt 
recognise on her banking app. She notified Think Money who investigated the matter. It said 
some previous transactions using a phone registered to Miss Cs account were made in 
February 2022 which Miss C never reported. Since these disputed transactions were made 
using the same device it refused to refund these transactions. 
However, it noted there were some delays in its handling of the matter, so it paid Miss C £30 
compensation when it then subsequently closed her account. 
Miss C brought her complaint to us. The investigator wasnt of the view her complaint should 
be upheld. Miss C didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Under the various regulations, primarily the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) Miss C 
has a duty to keep the security details of her account safe. 
Further under these regulations the consumer, Miss C here, is liable for all authorised 
transactions. Authorised for the purposes of these regulations means that the transactions 
were authorised and consented to, by the transactions following the form as agreed 
between the bank and the consumer, namely the terms and conditions. So, if the 
transactions were done by following the correct format, it is deemed the transactions were 
consented to. In these regulations the concept of consent is a formal one as in following the 
method required to do the transaction. Its not relevant whether Miss C actually gave another 
party permission. And under these regulations Miss C can also have someone else do the 
payment transactions for her. 
Think Money showed us that as far back as February 2022, another mobile phone/device 
was registered to her banking app. This could only have been done by entering the required 
security details and providing a One Time Passcode (OPT) which was sent to Miss Cs 
originally registered device. That would mean that Miss C would have had to disclose her 
security details and the OPT number to allow this new device to be added to her account. 
Several transactions took place using that mobile phone both lodging money into Miss Cs 
account and then sending it out to varying recipients.  Miss C never raised these 
transactions with Think Money at the time. One of the payments made was to Miss Cs 
former partner. Its very unlikely that an unknown fraudster would make payments to 
someone Miss C knew and who was a regular payer of funds to Miss C. 
Think Money also said the email address for Miss C was changed in March 2022 several 
times. 
The mobile phone used in February 2022 was also the device that did the disputed 
transactions in May 2022 which Miss C is complaining about here. The phone was again 
registered on Miss C account which again would have needed the relevant input of the 
security details and the passcode from the OPT which was sent to Miss Cs own phone at 
the time. And since Miss C didnt report the February transactions, which meant no attempt 
was made to safeguard her account, it was likely the same person did these transactions in 
May too. 
Furthermore. Think Money showed us via the online report showed that Miss C logged into 
her app shortly after the disputed payments. Miss C also confirmed that she regularly 
receives OTPs from Think Money. Think Money has shown us it sent OTPs to Miss C 
device at the time of these disputed transactions too.  
Therefore, I consider it was more likely that Miss C permitted someone else to do these 
disputed transactions or otherwise allowed someone else to gain access to her account to 
do them instead. 
Given this I dont consider Think Moneys refusal to refund the transactions was 
unreasonable. So, I dont think it did anything wrong. 
Think Money recognised it has delayed in some of its dealing with Miss C so it also paid her 
£30 compensation for this. In these circumstances I do consider this was reasonable and fair 
for these minor delay issues. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman