DRN-2796246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under 
their home insurance policy after their property was damaged by an escape of water.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs Ps home was damaged by an escape of water. They made a 
claim to AXA.
AXA accepted the claim. It agreed to cover the cost of alternative accommodation for 
Mr and Mrs P, along with their three children, while the property was dried out and repaired.
Mr and Mrs P became unhappy at the way the claim was being handled. In May 2019, they 
complained to AXA.
AXA issued a final response letter in July 2019. It acknowledged that the service provided by 
it and its contractors had been poor and that unacceptable delays had occurred. It offered 
compensation of £1,400 for these service failings.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy at AXAs response. They referred their complaint to us. They 
also highlighted various issues which they considered were still unresolved.
Our investigator issued a view in June 2020 concerning the service failings. She agreed 
there had been problems in the handling of the claim but considered that the £1,400 
compensation offered by AXA for its failings up to July 2019 was fair. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
challenge the investigators findings and our file was therefore closed.
Our investigator thought that the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs P over unresolved issues 
should be dealt with as a new complaint. These concerns could be summarised as follows:
The fridge freezer had developed mould during the repair work while Mr and Mrs P were 
in alternative accommodation. AXA had offered to clean this. However, in view of the risk 
it posed to Mrs Ps asthma (as confirmed in writing by her GP), Mr and Mrs P had found 
it necessary to get rid of it. They considered AXA should pay for its replacement.
Mr and Mrs P thought AXAs settlement for the remainder of their contents claim was too 
low as it didnt reflect the amount theyd spent on replacement items.
The bath was damaged and Mr and Mrs P believed that this was done by AXAs 
contractors.
During the repair work, AXAs contractor had dismantled a wardrobe which Mr P had 
then moved to another room. The wardrobe later could not be reassembled because a 
part had gone missing. Mr and Mrs P thought this was the fault of the contractor.
Mr and Mrs P said their pet tortoise and fish had died due to there being no electricity in 
the property during the reinstatement work and AXA should compensate them for this.
While AXA had offered to meet the cost of utility bills at their home address while they 
were living elsewhere, Mr and Mrs P said the utility bills at their alternative 
accommodation were higher than those they would normally incur at their home address 
and so AXA should compensate them for this.
Mr and Mrs P thought AXA should compensate them for over £3,000 of additional fuel 
costs which they said were incurred during the nine months they were forced to live 
away from the property.
Mr and Mrs P said there were remaining snagging issues in the kitchen and bathroom 
which AXA needed to resolve.
Mr and Mrs P wanted compensation for the further distress and inconvenience which 
they said they had been caused since July 2019.
AXA considered it had settled the claim fairly and resolved all issues. In the absence of 
evidence or explanation from Mr and Mrs P to show otherwise, it didnt consider that it 
needed to do anything further.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings were as follows:
I shall deal with matters under their various headings.
Fridge freezer
It is accepted that this had developed mould during the course of the repair work. I recognise 
that, in view of Mrs Ps asthma, she and Mr P felt it was unsafe for the fridge freezer to 
remain in the property when they moved back. They have provided a letter from their GP in 
support of this. However, I consider that AXA should reasonably have been given the 
opportunity to clean the fridge freezer to remove the mould. AXA was denied this opportunity 
by Mr and Mrs P who instead chose to dispose of the fridge freezer and buy a replacement. 
Since I have no reason to conclude that cleaning would not have successfully removed the 
mould, I dont consider it reasonable to require AXA to pay for the replacement fridge 
freezer. However, I consider it fair for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs P the amount it would have 
cost it to carry out the cleaning operation which will help offset the cost of the replacement.
Remainder of contents claim
Mr and Mrs P are claiming £2,798 as the cost of replacing their two ovens. AXA has paid 
them only £1,430, leaving a shortfall of £1,368.
AXA said it didnt discount the ovens for wear and tear when it provided its settlement. 
However, because the ovens were no longer in production, it based its settlement on a like 
for like replacement which it described as a single stainless steel oven with pyrolytic 
cleaning. I can see that such ovens of such a description by the same manufacturer of the 
original ovens are readily available for around the price on which AXA based its settlement. 
The investigator invited Mr and Mrs P to provide further details of their original ovens but 
these were nearly twenty years old and all they were able to provide were serial numbers. In 
the absence of evidence from Mr and Mrs P to show that their original ovens were much 
better quality than those on which AXA based its settlement, I conclude that AXAs 
settlement for the ovens was fair.I have seen no reasonable evidence to show that AXA did not settle the remainder of the 
contents claim fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
Damaged bath
I consider it likely that the bath was damaged by AXAs contractors. I therefore consider that 
AXA should either fix the bath (including replacing the missing plug) or cover the cost of its 
replacement.
Wardrobe
I consider that AXAs contactor was likely responsible for the fact that the wardrobe could not 
be reassembled. I therefore consider it fair that AXA should cover the cost of its 
replacement.
Death of pets
I am sorry for Mr and Mrs P over the loss of their pets and I can understand that this would 
cause them upset. However, the policy states that living creatures are not covered. Im 
therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs P did not have an eligible claim for the cost of their 
tortoise or fish. Furthermore, I have seen nothing to suggest that AXA or its contractors were 
to blame for the deaths. I therefore see no reason why AXA should have to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs P over this matter.
Bills while in alternative accommodation
The policy states that cover will be provided for the reasonable cost of alternative 
accommodation while the insured property is uninhabitable. However, I would normally 
expect the insurer not only to pay the cost of the accommodation but also more generally to 
make sure the insured person was not out of pocket as a result of having to live away from 
their home.
Im satisfied that AXA made reasonable efforts to find accommodation which met the specific 
requirements of Mr and Mrs P, their children and their dogs. I understand that AXA has also 
covered the cost of bills at the insured property while Mr and Mrs P were not living there.
However, I consider that if Mr and Mrs P can show they incurred higher bills for the time they 
were living away from their property than they would otherwise have incurred, it is 
reasonable to expect AXA to reimburse them this additional amount. I think it unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs P recklessly used up more energy or water while in the rented accommodation 
and that any difference in cost is therefore likely due to the nature of the property.
In support of their claim, Mr and Mrs P have provided copies of utility bills relating to their 
home address and their rented accommodation. I havent examined these in detail but Im 
not persuaded they have calculated their claimed extra cost fairly or accurately. For 
example, they have calculated the supposed normal daily cost of their gas and electricity 
consumption by taking an extended period of billing and dividing the total amount by 427 yet 
the period in question appears to be shorter than 427 days. In their calculations, they have 
also overlooked the period of approximately one month during which they were in hotel 
accommodation which was paid for by AXA and during which time they incurred no utility 
bills at all.
I consider that Mr and Mrs P should provide AXA with the necessary evidence to show how 
much extra cost they have incurred in respect of gas, electricity and water bills during the period they were living elsewhere, compared to how much they would have incurred if living 
in their own property. This should be evidenced by providing relevant bills relating to their 
home address for the corresponding period in the previous year. AXA should reimburse 
them for the overall additional cost. AXA may take into account, if appropriate, amounts it 
has already paid in respect of any of these costs. AXA may also take into account the period 
that Mr and Mrs P were in hotel accommodation in calculating the extent to which additional 
costs were incurred.
In respect of council tax bills. I consider it reasonable that AXA should reimburse 
Mr and Mrs P for the additional amount that they had to pay while living away. Mr and Mrs P 
should again provide AXA with the necessary evidence and AXA may again take into 
account the period during which Mr and Mrs P were living in a hotel.
In respect of wi-fi costs, if Mr and Mrs P had to pay these while in the hotel accommodation 
they should provide AXA with evidence and it should reimburse them accordingly. I wouldnt 
expect AXA to cover these costs while Mr and Mrs P were in rented accommodation unless 
Mr and Mrs P can show they incurred duplicate costs during this period despite trying to 
switch the service from their home address.
Additional travel expenses while in alternative accommodation
As mentioned above, I would normally expect the insurer not only to pay the cost of 
alternative accommodation but also more generally to make sure the insured person was not 
out of pocket as a result of having to live away from their home. This means that if Mr and 
Mrs P demonstrably incurred additional travel expenses as a result of being away from their 
home, AXA should reasonably reimburse them.
However, I dont consider that AXA needs to pay the additional travel costs claimed by 
Mr and Mrs P while they were living away from their home. This is because I dont consider 
that Mr and Mrs P have shown they incurred these claimed additional costs. Mr and Mrs P 
appear to have simply claimed the cost of all the traveling they say they undertook, as if they 
normally had no travel costs at all whereas clearly they would have done. Furthermore, 
I dont understand why Mr and Mrs P were required to visit their home property every day 
and, even if this was necessary, I dont understand why it wouldnt be combined with the 
journey to their childs school, for which they were also claiming and which was around the 
corner. The school journeys also seem to have been made for 35 straight weeks without any 
breaks for school holidays. In addition, it is clear that some of the journeys being claimed, for 
example, the drive to the train station, were considerably shorter than they would normally 
have been thanks to the convenient location of the alternative accommodation which meant 
that Mr and Mrs P were actually making a saving.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs Ps claim for additional travel costs while in alternative 
accommodation is unreasonable and is based on evidence which is flawed and unreliable. 
I therefore consider that AXA doesnt need to pay them anything in this respect.
Remaining snagging issues in kitchen and bathroom
Mr and Mrs P have raised a number of issues where they consider required insured work 
has either not been done or has been carried out to an inadequate standard. I dont have 
sufficient information to reach a decision on whether AXA should reasonably be held liable 
for the areas in dispute. I therefore consider that Mr and Mrs P should present AXA with the 
complete snagging list. AXA should then visit the property within four weeks of Mr and Mrs P 
accepting my final decision to go through this list and either agree to resolve the problem or 
decline cover. Mr and Mrs P will then know where they stand and it will be open to them to 
complain again to AXA if they remain unhappy with its decisions following this process.Compensation for distress and inconvenience
AXA has already compensated Mr and Mrs P for its failings up until July 2019. I consider that 
there have been further failings since that time which have caused certain matters in this 
dispute to remain unresolved. This will have caused some distress and inconvenience to 
Mr and Mrs P for which I consider that AXA should pay them £500 compensation.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision. They provided extensive information, 
the vast majority of which they had submitted previously. I shall not attempt to summarise 
their response. However, in going through each of the complaint headings in the section 
below, I address any relevant new arguments or evidence where I consider it has been 
provided.
AXA offered no further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fridge freezer
Mr and Mrs P provided background information to explain how it was the fridge freezer 
developed mould. They also provided further information on Mrs Ps medical issues. They 
havent provided any new information to change my mind about the fact that they denied 
AXA the opportunity to clean the appliance which might reasonably have solved the 
problem. I therefore remain of the view that AXA needs only to pay them the amount it would 
have cost to carry out the cleaning operation.
Remainder of contents claim
Mr and Mrs P have provided no further information to show their previous ovens were better 
quality than those on which AXA based its settlement. I still havent seen anything to 
persuade me that AXAs settlement of the contents claim was unfair.
Damaged bath  
Mr and Mrs P have re-submitted extensive evidence relating to the bath. However, I have 
already accepted it is likely the bath was damaged by AXAs contractors and have outlined 
what AXA therefore needs to do to put this right.
Wardrobe
As above, Mr and Mrs P have re-submitted extensive evidence but I have already said that 
I consider AXA should cover the cost of a replacement wardrobe.
Death of pets 
Mr and Mrs P havent provided me with persuasive evidence to show that the death of their 
pets was the fault of AXA or its contractors. I therefore consider that it doesnt need to pay 
them any compensation in respect of the deaths.Bills while in alternative accommodation 
Ive already explained that I consider AXA should compensate Mr and Mrs P for any utility 
and council tax expenses they incurred while they were living away from their home which 
were over and above what they would have normally incurred if living at home. Mr and Mrs P 
have explained that they couldnt obtain bills from their home address relating to the 
comparative period before they moved out, as I had suggested, and so provided bills relating 
to the year after they moved back in. They have again provided numerous bills relating to the 
rental property and their home address. I highlighted in my provisional decision certain 
concerns over their method of calculation. I dont propose going through all the evidence 
submitted to work out what Mr and Mrs P might be owed. Instead, Mr and Mrs P should 
provide their evidence directly to AXA. As noted in my provisional decision, AXA may take 
into account the period that Mr and Mrs P were in hotel accommodation, and thus incurring 
no such expense, in calculating the overall extent to which additional costs were incurred.
Additional travel expenses while in alternative accommodation
I explained in my provisional decision that I considered Mr and Mrs Ps claim for additional 
travel expenses while in alternative accommodation was unreasonable and based on 
evidence which was flawed and unreliable. I cant see that Mr and Mrs P have attempted to 
address those concerns. I therefore remain of the opinion that AXA doesnt need to pay any 
compensation to Mr and Mrs P in respect of such costs.
Remaining snagging issues in kitchen and bathroom
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy at the proposed way forward in respect of this issue. They 
consider that AXA has previously been provided with full details of all the snagging issues 
and has done nothing for nearly two years. They consider that my decision therefore simply 
sets them back to where they were nearly two years ago. I appreciate their frustration. 
However, they have raised numerous different issues with AXA during the course of this 
claim which have been the subject of ongoing dispute. Most of these issues will have 
received closure through this decision. In respect of the snagging issues in the kitchen and 
bathroom, I consider these cannot be completely resolved within this decision without 
unreasonably holding up the decision. I therefore consider the sensible way forward is for 
Mr and Mrs P to provide AXA with a comprehensive list of these snagging issues and for 
AXA, within four weeks, to attend the property and confirm exactly which of these it is 
prepared to put right. Im satisfied that this will clarify any areas of disagreement and will 
help towards the ultimate resolution of the dispute 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Mr and Mrs P re-stated the distress and inconvenience they have suffered since July 2019. 
I have taken their comments into account. However, I remain of the view that £500 is fair 
compensation for these matters. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint in part.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs P the amount it would have cost it to clean the fridge freezer;either fix the bath (including the replacement of the plug) or cover the cost of its 
replacement;
cover the cost of a replacement wardrobe;
upon receipt of appropriate evidence from Mr and Mrs P, reimburse them any extra 
amount they had to pay in total for gas, electricity, water and council tax over the period 
they were living away from their home compared to what they would have expected to 
pay had they been living at home over that period;
upon receipt of appropriate evidence from Mr and Mrs P, reimburse them for any wi-fi 
charges they incurred while in hotel accommodation;
provided that Mr and Mrs P have provided it with a complete snagging list in advance, 
attend the property within four weeks of my final decision being accepted to go through 
the snagging issues in the kitchen and bathroom and either agree to resolve the issue 
(whether through carrying out a repair or by cash settlement) or deny liability; and
pay Mr and Mrs P £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have 
been caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman