DRN-1943143
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his landlords insurance 
policy and handled that claim poorly.
What happened
Mr H has a landlords insurance policy with AXA which covers a property he owns and rents 
out. The policy covers damage to the building, amongst other things.
Mr H made a claim under this policy in July 2019 after his tenant advised him that water was 
entering the property through the kitchen roof during a period of heavy rain.
AXA appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. They then declined the claim and told 
Mr H the damage was caused gradually over time rather than by a one-off insured event 
such as a storm.
Mr H had a number of quotes for repairs to the kitchen roof, including one from a contractor 
which said the damage was due to bad weather at the time of the incident.
Mr H complained to AXA about their decision to decline the claim. He also said there had 
been unnecessary delays in AXAs handling of the claim. And that their call handler had 
responded unprofessionally and unacceptably when he called to discuss the claim. He also 
wanted access to the report provided by the surveyor.
When AXA didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint  or reverse their decision on his claim - he 
complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AXA had done anything 
wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy says that AXA will cover damage caused to his property by a storm. It also 
says AXA will not cover damage resulting from wear and tear. And it says the policyholder 
must take reasonable steps to prevent or protect against damage.
Mr H provided AXA with video recordings of the water leaking into his property. I dont think 
theres any dispute that the weather was bad at the time and it was raining heavily.
However, the policy covers damage arising from a storm. Bad weather  even very heavy 
rain  isnt necessarily a storm.
Insurance policies such as Mr Hs will most often cover damage caused by unexpected one-
off events or incidents such as storms or floods. Theyre not intended to cover damage 
caused by age-related deterioration of the building or its parts (such as roofs). And theyre 
not intended to be a substitute for proper maintenance of the property  as the policy terms 
make clear.
So, when I look at this case, Im asking myself a fundamentally simple question. Was the 
damage caused by a storm  a one-off violent event, which was enough to cause damage to 
an otherwise well maintained and well-constructed roof  so allowing water to enter the 
property? Or was it caused by rainwater entering the property because of a pre-existing 
weakness in the roof which may have simply been highlighted by the adverse weather 
conditions?
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but the vast majority of the evidence in 
this case suggests that the damage wasnt caused by a storm and that the roof had 
deteriorated over time through wear and tear.
The weather records from the relevant time show periods of heavy rainfall in the area of the 
property. But they dont give any indication at all that there were weather conditions severe 
enough to be considered a storm and/or to cause damage to property  at least not property 
that was in a good condition of repair at the time.
AXAs surveyor was very clear in reporting that the damage they saw was caused by wear 
and tear over time and not by a storm. 
Their evidence  including photographs - was later reviewed by AXAs in-house surveyor. 
And he concluded the roof was in a poor state of repair. He noted weathering to the fascia 
boards and perished mortar at the point the roof tiles met the wall.  
Mr Hs contractor had sent him a quote which explicitly said that the damage was due to very 
bad weather. But AXAs records suggest that when AXAs surveyor contacted the contractor 
they did agree that the damage was likely to have occurred over time.
In particular, that contractors quote  and other quotes obtained by Mr H  say the repair 
work required includes replacing rotten roof battens, replacing roof felt with holes in it and 
fixing the flashings. Its difficult to see how that kind of damage could have been caused by a 
single storm. For example, wooden battens are unlikely to rot that quickly  or as a result of 
a single sudden ingress of water.
In summary, there was no storm  no insured event  and the damage is agreed by all the 
professionals involved to be a result of wear and tear and gradual deterioration. So AXA 
were entitled to decline the claim in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy.
In terms of Mr Hs allegation that AXA unnecessarily delayed the handling of his claim, I 
cant see any evidence to support that. The claim was made on 13 July 2019. AXA asked 
Mr H for further information, including estimates, which he provided more than two months 
later. The claim decision was made within 12 days of AXA receiving that information. 
AXA handled Mr Hs subsequent contact and complaints in a reasonably timely fashion  
including responding to his formal complaint within the eight weeks allowed under the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys rules.
I can see from AXAs notes that there was at least one phone call with Mr H which didnt end 
amicably. But AXAs notes  taken at the time  suggest Mr H had been unwilling to listen to 
and/or accept the reasons for AXA declining his claim. Theres nothing to suggest AXAs 
staff member acted unreasonably or unprofessionally in the way they responded to Mr H.I understand Mr H has been given copies of the information and evidence provided to AXA 
by the surveyor they commissioned to inspect his property. I cant see any evidence to 
suggest AXA have unreasonably or unfairly withheld information from Mr H. But if he 
believes they havent acted fully in accordance with their Data Protection obligations, he is 
entitled to make a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), who are 
responsible for regulating these matters.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman