DRN-4101139
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society:
Charged him for an ongoing advice service which he didnt agree to and didnt use.
Gave his personal details to a third-party without his permission.
Arranged for a third-party financial advisor to contact him without notifying him and 
without his agreement. He received unprofessional service from that advisor.
He wants Nationwide to apologise and compensate him for the investment growth hes 
missed out on because of the fee deductions.
What happened
Mr C opened a stocks and shares ISA in 2007 in a Nationwide branch and made monthly 
contributions. Nationwide didnt recommend the ISA. The ISA manager changed three times 
over the years.
In 2022, Nationwide wrote to Mr C to tell him that it was changing the way it charged for its 
advice services. Mr C complained that he hadnt agreed to any advice charges and that this 
was a service he hadnt used. He explained hed received contact once in 2021, but this had 
been unrequested and from a third-party whod provided an unprofessional service. Mr C 
asked for the charges to be refunded.
Nationwide said the ISA was sold on a non-advised basis and it was for Mr C to review the 
documentation, including information about the charges, before he agreed to go ahead. It 
said commission was payable to Nationwide by the ISA manager. In return, Mr C had access 
to a Nationwide financial advisor and received the services of its investment committee who 
monitored the underlying funds and contacted Mr C if it had any concerns about those funds. 
It explained how the charging structure changed in 2016 and that Mr C had received 
communication about the charges, which made it clear that Nationwide received 
commission.
Nationwide said it hadnt shared Mr Cs personal information with any third parties  he 
received a phone call from a Nationwide financial planning manager. It said it couldnt find a 
recording of the online meeting which took place but apologised for the way Mr C said it was 
handled and paid him £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Nationwide had acted unreasonably and thought the payment of £100 was a fair outcome.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He accepts that the key features stated that commission was payable and that there 
were no explicit charges for Nationwides service or ongoing advice. But when the ISA 
manager changed to another provider, he didnt expect both businesses to make a 
charge.
He doesnt recall receiving correspondence in 2015 and 2016, but he doesnt see how 
these would have made him realise he was paying for a financial advice service that hed 
never asked for, and never used.
The phone contact he received was unprofessional, bearing in mind the current climate 
of scam calls. The call was received without warning, and he was worried it wasnt 
genuine. When he contacted Nationwide to check, there was confusion about what had 
happened.
He was paid £100 by Nationwide by way of an apology for the way the advisor turned 
on him when he wouldnt provide him with sensitive personal information. He was never 
given the opportunity to discuss if he was happy with this payment and feels the service 
provided by Nationwide was very poor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, Mr C opened the ISA around 16 years ago and, as Nationwide is not required to 
keep records indefinitely, there are limited records available from that long ago. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Nationwide didnt recommend the ISA to Mr C in 2007. So it wasnt responsible for ensuring 
the ISA was suitable for him. It was responsible for providing Mr C with enough information 
for him to decide it was the right product for him. It was usual industry practice at the time for 
the introducer  in this case Nationwide  to receive a commission from the ISA manager out 
of the annual management charge. I think its more likely than not that Mr C would have 
been made aware of this before he agreed to take out the ISA. I say this because the 
arrangement was normal industry practice at the time and there was a regulatory obligation 
on Nationwide to disclose it. The commission payment was not optional.
The commission Nationwide received gave Mr C access to a Nationwide advisor if he 
wanted advice about his investment. Nationwide has provided evidence that a financial 
review meeting took place in October 2008. So I find Mr C did make use the service, albeit 
there is only evidence of one review. Nationwides investment committee continuously 
monitored the underlying funds in the ISA and contacted Mr C from time to time if it had any 
concerns about those funds. I can see that it wrote to Mr C in 2021 explaining that one or 
more of the funds he held werent performing as well as Nationwide would expect and recommending he reviewed his investments. Its possible Nationwide contacted Mr C on a 
similar basis over the years too, but records of this contact are no longer available.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide provided an on-going service to Mr C in return for the 
commission it received and that Mr C reasonably should have known he had access to a 
financial advisor if he wanted a review.
Mr C says he didnt expect Nationwide to continue to receive commission when the 
management of the ISA passed to a third-party. But Nationwide continued to provide the 
advice services outlined above. And I can see from the correspondence that Nationwide has 
been able to provide that this was made reasonably clear by the new ISA managers, and in 
correspondence about the FCAs retail distribution review.
I dont find Nationwide passed Mr Cs personal information onto an unauthorised third-party. 
The individual who phoned him in 2021 was a Nationwide advisor.
I appreciate Mr Cs concerns about receiving the call, and he was right to be cautious to 
ensure this was not a scam. There isnt a recording of the call, so I cant conclude whether 
the Nationwide advisor should have done more to reassure Mr C or to prove to him that the 
call was genuine. But Nationwide had recently sent Mr C a letter recommending he arrange 
for a review of his investments, and I would think it more likely than not that the advisor 
referred to this at the outset of the call. Mr C suggests he would have felt more comfortable if 
the advisor had arranged for the meeting to take place at a branch. I understand this, but 
I dont know if he suggested this to the advisor during the call. In any event, Mr C told us that 
he followed up the call by contacting Nationwide to satisfy himself that the call was genuine 
before going ahead with the online meeting. I appreciate Nationwide staff took some time to 
be able to provide Mr C with the reassurance he needed and that this must have been 
frustrating for him. But he hadnt given the advisor any personal information at this stage, so 
shouldnt have been unduly worried.
Mr C says that during the online meeting he was asked for personal financial information that 
he didnt want to share with the advisor. And that the advisor then became rude and ended 
the meeting. Nationwide wasnt able to access a recording of the online meeting when it 
investigated Mr Cs complaint. It apologised for any unprofessional service and paid Mr C 
£100 compensation. I think its likely that the advisor would have explained that he wanted a 
full picture of Mr Cs financial position so that he could provide him with the most suitable 
advice. But, as this was a review that Nationwide had recommended because of concerns 
about the performance of some of the underlying funds in Mr Cs ISA, its advisor should 
have accepted Mr C might have only wanted advice about that, and not about any other 
aspect of his finances. Im satisfied Nationwide has apologised for the way Mr C was made 
to feel and that it paid him £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr C says he wasnt given the opportunity to discuss the compensation payment. 
Nationwide could have asked Mr C if he wanted to accept the £100 before it paid it to him. 
But I dont find it was obliged to do this, so I cant conclude it acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman