DRN-2224777
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to provide suitable 
alternative banking facilities while his local branch was undergoing a refurbishment 
programme.
What happened
Mr L has an account with Nationwide and when he visited the branch in September 2019 to 
deposit cash and cheques, he discovered the branch was closed for refurbishment works. 
Mr L says the only option offered by Nationwide was to visit his nearest local towns to 
undertake the transactions. Mr L says he has a disability and was temporarily unable to drive 
at that time. Mr L says  Nationwide have been discriminatory and should have considered 
alternative arrangements nearby.
Nationwide says that they put up posters in the branch two weeks leading up to the branch 
closure and the branch staff would have informed its customers of the pending closure in the 
preceding month as well. Nationwide says that as well as online banking and telephone 
banking, its local branch in the next town was available for Mr L to use and feel they have 
done nothing wrong. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint and 
says that Nationwide gave reasonable notice of the branch closure and suitable alternative 
arrangements were put in place while the refurbishment programme was in place. 
Mr L was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Nationwide acted reasonably in providing 
alternative banking arrangements during the refurbishment of the branch for its customers, 
including Mr L, and gave sufficient and clear information about its forthcoming closure. 
Mr L says that he has a disability and was temporarily unable to drive whilst the programme 
of works was being carried out at his local branch, meaning the trip to the local town was 
difficult for him. 
I can see that it would have been inconvenient for Mr L to have to make a trip to the next 
town to make a deposit and its right to say that no one is disputing that Nationwides 
customers, like Mr L, would have faced some inconvenience while the branch underwent 
the refurbishment. 
What happened here is that Nationwide placed posters in the branch two weeks leading up 
to the closure and in the preceding month leading up to the closure engaged with customers 
visiting the branch to tell them of the closure and alternative arrangements. Mr L says he 
only knew of the change when he visited the branch to pay in mid-way through the 
refurbishment - it may be that Mr L hadnt visited the branch for some while for whatever 
reason , but I cant see that Nationwide could have foreseen that. While Mr L feels he has 
been discriminated against because of his disability, like the investigator says thats not 
something  for this service to decide upon but to consider whether or not the arrangements 
made by Nationwide, like any other bank in these circumstances, were reasonable.
Nationwide have other banking services available to its customers , online and telephony 
banking which may cover a good proportion of the services they offer. On top of this I can 
see they made arrangement with two local branches to ensure they could deal with 
increased counter service work not covered by these alternatives. 
Mr L says, as an example, Nationwide could have used a local post office for its customers  
to pay in , but thats not something I can tell Nationwide to do as the alternative 
arrangements they put in place is a business decision for them to make. We all face 
inconvenience in our lives from time to time and the temporary closure of the branch is likely 
to cause some form of  inconvenience to all its customers in these circumstances - what is 
important here is whether Nationwide made other reasonable arrangements during this time 
and on balance I am satisfied this is what happened here. 
While I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore 
of Nationwide here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman