DRN-3731280
The complaint
Mr Ks complained about the way esure Insurance Limited dealt with the claim he made on 
his home insurance policy after hed suffered an escape of water in his home.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr K contacted esure to tell them there had been a leak from a water pipe 
in his home.  He told esure there was extensive damage, particularly in the kitchen and living 
room.  Mr K made a claim under both the buildings and contents sections of his property 
insurance policy.
Unfortunately, the claim was beset with problems and it took until October 2022 for all 
matters to be settled.  Mr K has been frustrated throughout at the speed of progress and 
how esure have assessed his claim.  
Mr K first complained in March 2021 about the delay by esures agents in authorising the 
cost of an electrician to restore power to his home. He also complained about the scope of 
the works  including that no dehumidifiers had been installed to dry the property out - and 
that esure hadnt provided him with alternative accommodation.  Esure upheld his complaint 
about the delay in authorising the electricians costs and paid Mr K £50 compensation.
Mr K continued to complain that repair work couldnt be done until the property was dry and 
that esures contractors needed to provide dehumidifiers.  These were provided in mid-May.  
Building works were authorised in June and started in mid-August 2021.  
The work was largely completed by the end of November, although there were some 
snagging issues to deal with.  There was also some delay as a result of the contractors 
finding some damp - which was unrelated to the claim, so esure declined to deal with it.  And 
Mr K claimed for a cooker which had not been included in the original claim.
In the period before repair work started, Mr K repeatedly asked esure to provide him with 
alternative accommodation.  He said he couldnt live in his own home as there was no 
electricity for a number of weeks, and no boiler to provide heating or hot water.  And he 
couldnt have his children stay for their contact visits.
In response, esure explained that theyd assessed the property as habitable once the 
electrical supply had been reconnected and there was a boiler in place, as that meant 
cooking and washing facilities, hot water, heating, and electricity were all available.  But they 
noted that the electricity supply had been off for about six weeks.  They offered Mr K a 
payment of £10 per day for this  which came to £440.  They increased this to £20 per day 
for the days Mr Ks children stayed  so they offered a total of £560.  From this, esure 
deducted Mr Ks excess of £450 and paid him £110.
A further review of the disturbance allowance in June 2021 led to esure making a further 
payment of £540 to Mr K.
In respect of his children staying, esure offered Mr K £75 per week - the cost of a family 
room in a local hotel.  When Mr K explained his daughter would need a separate room, 
esure increased their offer to £175 per week, made up of £135 for two rooms and £40 
towards food.  Unfortunately, the hotel esure identified, and others in the area, refused to let 
a separate room to Mr Ks daughter due to her age.  
Mr K wasnt satisfied with esures response to his complaints and brought them to our 
service.  Our investigator considered what had happened and concluded esure should pay 
Mr K £250 compensation, in addition to the £250 theyd already paid him.  He thought the 
£50 compensation esure had paid Mr K in April 2021 was a fair amount for the delay in 
authorising payment to the electrician.  But he noted there were also delays in starting drying 
of the property, as well as a two month delay between the authorisation and start of repair 
works and delay in dealing with the cooker claim  for which he said Mr K should be 
compensated.
But he said esures efforts to provide hotel accommodation while Mr K had his children were 
reasonable, as was the disturbance allowance he was given.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.  But I dont think esure need to do more 
than our investigator said they should to put things right.  Ill explain why.
I understand the stress Mr Ks been under.  Theres inevitably some stress involved in every 
claim - because somethings happened to make that claim necessary.  I cant say esure 
should compensate Mr K for that  or for anything that wasnt their fault.  And I have to 
decide whether what esure have done to put matters right is enough.
Delays
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly.  Mr Ks complained throughout 
about delays.  Claims do take time to assess  its not enough to say the claim took a long 
time to settle.  So Ive looked at what happened to see where there were delays  and 
whether those delays were something esure were accountable for.
Ive seen that esure have already made two compensation payments for delay  the first in 
relation to delay in authorising payment to the electrician so power could be restored to Mr 
Ks home and the second for general delays.  And they paid Mr K a disturbance allowance 
on two occasions.  As these delays are accepted by esure, Im not going to comment further.
Our investigator said thered been delay in installing drying equipment.   Ive looked at the 
claim notes and I agree.  Mr K raised this repeatedly when he contacted esure.  But dryers 
werent installed at the property until three months after the flood and two months after Mr K 
started questioning this.  I dont think thats reasonable. Action could have been started to 
start drying the property during this time. And that meant the claim took longer than it should 
have to resolve.
Nor do I think it was reasonable that works didnt start for two months after theyd been 
authorised.  It appears that esures agent was waiting to hear from one of a number of 
different contractors who worked on the property.  But nothing Ive seen shows why the work 
couldnt be booked in.  So I think esure also need to compensate Mr K for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused.I can see there was some delay to works as other damp  unrelated to the claim  had to be 
dealt with before the final flooring could be laid.  I understand that was frustrating.  But I cant 
say esure were responsible for this, because the delay was caused by something unrelated 
to the claim.
Finally under this heading, I can see that there was delay in dealing with the claim for Mr Ks 
cooker.  This wasnt included in the original claim, as the damage from the escape of water 
only became apparent later.  But it appears to have been overlooked for several months 
after Mr K notified esure of the issue.  
Alternative accommodation
From early in the claim, Mr K asked esure to provide him with alternative accommodation  
on his own behalf and because he said his children, who stay with him for part of the week, 
couldnt stay in the house.  
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ks policy.  This says:
Whilst Your House is not habitable following an insured incident, We will provide temporary 
alternative accommodation until the repairs are complete (practical completion). We will 
assess the requirements for each claim and determine the type and size of property that will 
be sufficient for the period. This Policy does not operate a like for like guarantee and instead 
provides an adequate alternative for the required period
I think this makes it clear alternative accommodation isnt provided in every case.
The claim notes show esure told Mr K they thought the property was habitable once the 
electricity was restored and there was a working boiler, as those provided the services he 
needed to live there.  Mr K disagreed because it was still damp and had no flooring.     
Ive thought carefully about this.  Remaining in the property clearly wouldnt have been as 
comfortable for Mr K as it was before the escape of water.  But he had access to living 
facilities  albeit not the full range he was used to.  Hes described the property as an 
inhospitable environment for him and his children.  And he chose to stay with his partner 
rather than remain at home.  
While I understand why Mr K chose to do that, that doesnt mean I can say his home was 
unhabitable.  Esure have explained how they decide whether a property is habitable and 
have applied those criteria here.  So I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to decide Mr 
Ks home was habitable when they did.
And, Ive noted that, notwithstanding their decision the property was habitable, esure did try 
to provide alternative accommodation for Mr K to spend time with his children, as his 
partners home was too small to accommodate them as well.  Mr K didnt feel he could 
accept what was offered.
My starting point for considering this is that esure thought Mr Ks house was habitable.  That 
means they werent under any obligation to provide alternative accommodation at all.  I can 
see they offered a family room in a local hotel and, when Mr K said his daughter needed her 
own room, esure offered to pay for two rooms.  Unfortunately, due to his daughters age, no 
hotel would accept a booking for her to have her own room.  
I cant say esure are responsible for that.  Nor can I say they are responsible for Mr Ks 
decision not to accept a family room.  They did more than they were obliged to do under the 
policy terms.  So I cant say esures efforts to provide alternative accommodation for Mr Ks 
children to visit were inadequate.Putting things right
As Ive said, I think esure need to do more than they have to put matters right.  To decide 
what I think is fair, Ive taken into account that theyve already paid a total of £250 
compensation paid for delay in April (£50) and June 2021 (£200).
I acknowledge Mr K has been stressed and inconvenienced by the delays Ive identified 
above, only some of which esure have compensated with the payments theyve already 
made.  So its fair they should make an additional payment now.  
I know Mr K thinks the further £250 recommended by our investigator wasnt enough to 
recognise all hes had to deal with.  I disagree and I think esure should pay this amount.
We dont have a tariff for complaints.  And we consider each situation on its own merits.  But 
we do publish guidance on our awards on our website about what sort of level of 
compensation someone bringing a complaint to us might expect to receive.
My decision will mean Mr K receives a total of £500 compensation.  Our website says this 
level of compensation may be awarded:
where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  
and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or months.  
I think thats an accurate description of Mr Ks situation.  And thats why Ive decided esure 
should pay Mr K a further £250 to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint and directing esure Insurance 
Limited to pay him £250 compensation, in addition to the payments hes already received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman