DRN-2885564
The complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) hasnt been able to send an agent 
round to collect his loan repayments. This has led to him being unable to repay his loan, 
which in turn has led to the loans being passed to a third-party collection agency. 
Mr S thinks that Provident are acting outside of the mutual contract when it didnt send 
around an agent. And so, he shouldnt need to repay the loan in full. 
What happened
Mr S took his first loan with Provident on 20 July 2014. He borrowed £650 over a term of 52 
weeks. This loan was fully repaid in July 2015. 
Mr S took his second loan in November 2015. This had a term of 63 weeks and Mr S was 
due to repay £30 each week over this time period. 
According to the information that Provident has supplied Mr S was able to pay the agreed 
amount for the first few months. He then had problems making the repayments early in 
2016. He missed some repayments in March 2016 and then regularly started repaying £5 a 
week shortly after this time, with the occasional £10. Most of these were to the agent but 
Mr S paid by card to a Provident central office on a number of occasions. 
I understand that In June or July 2017 Provident was unable to send round an agent to 
collect Mr S weekly repayment. As far as I can see, Mr S hasnt made any repayments to 
his loan since this point. 
Mr S outstanding loan has recently been passed to a third-party collection agency. 
Provident still owns this loan. And Provident is no longer actively trading. Because of this it is 
only able to take payments by telephone or online.
Mr S has made an earlier complaint about the customer service he has received. This was in 
relation to incorrect information about his outstanding loan balance. Provident has accepted 
that it couldve done better at times in this respect and has reduced his outstanding loan 
balance by £150 as compensation. This earlier complaint doesnt directly impact on the 
issues raised here. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that:
It was reasonable that the collection of the remaining loan balance was passed to a 
third-party in 2019.
Provident now no longer offers an agent collection service. And the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cannot compel it to do so.
The alternative repayment options Provident has offered are reasonable. Some of 
these are not dependent on Mr S having a bank account. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that:
It wasnt fair to pass his loan to a third-party collection agency as he has been 
repaying it. 
It is a breach of contract not to offer a collection service. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When Mr S took the loan with Provident, as he is aware, a mutual contract was formed. 
Provident agreed to lend the money and Mr S agreed to repay the capital back, plus interest, 
within a certain timeframe. Ive been provided with a copy of this contract and the related 
terms and conditions of the lending.  
I can see that the contract does refer to Provident collecting the weekly repayments using an 
agent. But the terms and conditions of the lending also refer to Provident using other 
methods of payment collection at times. Particularly, when a loan has not been repaid within 
the agreed schedule, which is what has happened here. So, I dont think that Provident was 
acting outside of the contract when it didnt offer a collection service after 2017. 
Added to this, as Ive mentioned above, Mr S was unable to make the agreed repayments to 
the loan from relatively early on. This was when he was still seeing an agent on a regular 
basis. And he effectively ceased to repay the loan from 2017 onwards. 
It follows that I dont think the repayment problems in the early part of the loan were due to 
any action or inaction on the part of Provident. And Provident has tried to facilitate 
repayment of the loan by various other means since that time. I can see that Mr S has used 
these, such as the repayments he made by card. 
So, its not clear to me how Provident being unable to provide an agent to collect his 
payments affected Mr S ability to repay the loan. He was already having problems with this 
a significant time before Provident was unable to do this. And he could pay by other means. 
So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr S was prevented from making his loan 
repayments by Provident. 
Given all of this I dont think that Provident has acted unfairly in taking the steps it has done 
to recover the loan amounts. This includes asking a third-party agent to assist with this. 
Going forward Provident and Mr S should try to agree a repayment plan if possible. I would 
remined Provident of its responsibility to treat Mr S fairly in this respect. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman