DRN-2942770
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his overdraft and his credit card when he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
that Mr Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for him by November 2014. So it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Bs overdraft from this point. 
In respect of Mr Bs credit card, our adjudicator thought that Lloyds shouldnt have provided 
any of the credit limit increases it did from December 2014 onwards. So it needed to refund 
the extra interest it charged on the credit it shouldnt have provided.
Lloyds disagreed with our adjudicator in respect of the credit card but agreed to settle the 
complaint in relation to the credit card. Mr B still want the complaint about the overdraft 
upheld. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
As Lloyds has agreed to settle the complaint in relation to Mr Bs credit card, this decision is 
only looking at whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mr Bs overdraft.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do think that Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
renewed Mr Bs overdraft in November 2014. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Mr B had been hardcore borrowing for pretty 
much the entire review period. In other words, Mr Bs account remained overdrawn for the 
entire review period without returning to credit. 
Lloyds says that this isnt an indication of financial difficulty or that a facility is unsustainable. 
But the Lending Code, which was in place at the time and which Lloyds subscribed to, 
clearly stated that that hardcore borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. So I 
completely disagree with Lloyds assertion that sustained and prolonged overdraft usage 
isnt an indication of a potential problem, or that there isnt anything to suggest that this is the 
case.  
Lloyds has also referred to Mr Bs account having been well-credited and has also said that 
Mr B could have chosen to remove or reduce his overdraft. But its clear that Mrs B overall 
position wasnt really improving despite what it has referred to. So I think that Lloyds ought to 
have seen that Mr B was already struggling to manage his overdraft and treated him with 
forbearance rather renewing Mr Bs overdraft in November 2014 and then adding increased 
interest, fees and charges to what he owed. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Bs overdraft usage, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards him. And as this led to Mr B paying additional interest, fees and charges at a when 
he was already struggling to clear what he owed, Im satisfied that he lost out as a result of 
Lloyds failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. So Lloyds needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Ive thought about Mr Bs request for a distress and inconvenience payment. And Im sorry to 
hear about the effect Mr B has said his debts have had. But while I accept that Lloyds should 
have called in Mr Bs overdraft. I do think that, at least, some of his difficulty was caused by 
his spending. 
So Im satisfied that an additional distress and inconvenience award, over and above the 
compensation award Im setting out below, isnt warranted here.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from November 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from November 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
In addition to putting things right on Mr Bs overdraft in the way Ive set out above, Lloyds 
should also pay the compensation it has already agreed to pay in respect of Mr Bs credit 
card.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman