DRN-3530414
The complaint
Ms K complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly refused to pay her storm 
claim in full.
What happened
In January 2022 Ms K made a claim for storm damage to her conservatory. It was leaking 
and she felt guttering, corner and roof panels had been damaged by a storm.  After its 
contractor inspected the property Admiral declined the claim in full. It considered the cause 
to be wear and tear, not storm. After Ms K provided further information it agreed to cover the 
guttering as storm damage. 
In February 2022 Admiral responded to a complaint from Ms K. It accepted it had failed to 
return her calls. It paid her £50 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused. 
However, it said the decision to only cover the guttering was correct. Ms K wasnt satisfied 
so came to this service. She wants Admiral to agree to cover the corner and roof panel 
damage  as well as the guttering.
 
In May 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She wasnt persuaded storm was the 
main cause of the disputed damage. So she didnt recommend Admiral cover the roof or 
corner panel damage. Ms K didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me 
to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Admiral to do anything differently. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of 
evidence Ms K or Admirals provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or 
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything 
provided.  
When considering complaints about declined storm claims the key question for me to ask is 
 was a storm the main or dominant cause of the damage. When asking that for this 
complaint Ive considered everything provided  including any reports, estimates and photos 
provided by Ms K and Admiral.
The conservatory is reported to be more than twenty years old. Admirals contractor found it 
to be in very poor condition overall  using blown double glazed windows as an example of 
its condition. The contractor considered the main cause of damage to be wear and tear  
rather than storm. Admirals own surveyor, after considering that report and photos, agreed 
wear and tear was likely to be the main cause. His conclusion was that pre-existing issues 
had been highlighted by heavy wind and rain. 
Admirals surveyor felt photos didnt show evidence of storm damage to the roof that would 
explain the leak  instead he felt it most likely seals on the glazing bars had failed or 
perished. He also said corner posts would usually be glued in place. He was of the opinion 
those wouldnt be affected by a storm unless the glue had already weakened through wear 
and tear prior to the storm. 
Ive considered the information Ms Ks provided. One of her reports provides only a general 
heading of storm damage for the whole conservatory. It doesnt provide any further 
analysis. A further report includes a bit more discussion. It refers to damage being caused by 
storm. For example, it describes corner panels as being blown off.  
Overall Im more persuaded by Admirals position. Its surveyor makes a reasonable point 
about the corner panel  when saying it wouldnt be expected to be disturbed by a storm 
unless fixings were already weakened. And I havent seen evidence of typical storm damage 
to the roof area. Considering everything, including the age of the conservatory, I cant say 
Admirals decision that the storm most likely highlighted pre-existing problems is unfair or 
unreasonable.   
Ms Ks said Admirals contractors report is simply speculating about how the damage could 
have happened. I accept it is just an opinion with supporting descriptions of the 
conservatory. Ms Ks own reports are also opinions. However, unfortunately for Ms K Im 
more persuaded by what Admirals provided.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do 
any more to settle Ms Ks claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman