DRN-3361763
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly told her that a debt she had 
fully paid off would be reported to the credit reference agencies as partially satisfied. She 
also says that HSBC also did not consider the evidence she submitted in support of her 
complaint.
What happened
Mrs A had an outstanding debt with HSBC which she was repaying through a debt support 
agency (B). 
HSBC wrote to Mrs A on 5 July 2021 and told her that she had one more payment to make 
on 17 July 2021, and it would accept this as a full and final settlement of her account. It then 
went on to say:
Upon receipt of the funds your account will be closed. Although you wont have any further 
liability for the remainder of the balance and we will not pursue you for that amount, our 
agreement with the Credit Reference Agencies requires us to report the debt as partially 
satisfied. Other lenders will see this when they search your credit file.
Mrs A wrote to B as she thought the debt had been fully paid, so was shocked that the debt 
would be marked as partially satisfied. B confirmed that Mrs A had paid off the debt in full 
and there was no outstanding balance.
So Mrs A complained to HSBC who agreed that the wording on the letter was incorrect, and 
it shouldve shown her account as settled. HSBC offered Mrs A £80 compensation which 
she didnt accept. She wanted a written apology and appropriate compensation for the 
impact this had had on her.
HSBC wrote to her again in a letter dated 3 August 2021. It apologised for the error in the 
automatically generated letter. It confirmed that once her final payment was applied to her 
account her credit file would be reported correctly as the debt having been settled. It offered 
her £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
On 21 August 2021 Mrs A wrote to HSBC, and in her letter she included all the 
correspondence shed had with HSBC and B. She also described the negative effect 
HSBCs mistake had caused her, and said  the compensation should be meaningful and 
substantialto ensure that the undesirable impact of this event is quashed as soon as 
possible. Although she received notification from the postal service that her package had 
been delivered, HSBC said it hadnt arrived.
Unhappy, Mrs A complained to our service. Our investigator acknowledged the distress 
Mrs A had been caused, but thought the £150 offered by HSBC was fair in the 
circumstances, and this took into account what Mrs A had paid for postage and 
photocopying whilst trying to sort out the problem. 
Mrs A didnt agree and thought that the investigator, like HSBC, hadnt considered the 
package of evidence shed sent in. Our investigator assured her that the package had been 
considered in their view, and they had also sent it again to HSBC for its records.
Mrs A thanked our investigator for their considered update, but asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mrs A for all the evidence shes sent to us, and for the time it has 
taken her to ensure we have a clear understanding of what has happened, and when. This 
complaint is clearly a matter of great concern to her, and Id like to reassure her that I have 
considered everything that she and HSBC have sent us, and I understand the impact that all 
of it has had on her.
Our role is not to punish businesses when they make mistakes or get things wrong. When 
we determine a mistake has been made, we aim to put the consumer in the position they 
wouldve been in had the mistake not happened. And HSBC did make a mistake with the 
letter it sent on 5 July 2021. And I can see it has acknowledged this mistake and apologised. 
So I need to decide whether its apology and offer of £150 is enough. And I think it is. I know 
my decision will be disappointing to Mrs A, so Ill explain why.
Mrs A has told us that she was in debt to HSBC for a considerable number of years. I can 
see she made great efforts, with the assistance of B, to pay this debt off. So I can completely 
understand her distress and worry when, thinking she was finally in the position of being 
debt free, she received the letter on 15 July 2021, from HSBC (dated 5 July 2021), telling her 
that it wouldnt pursue her for the outstanding amount and would report to the credit 
reference agencies that her debt was partially settled. And I can see from the wording 
Mrs A used in the letter she sent to B the next day, that she was very worried that her credit 
file wouldnt show that shed paid off her debt in full. 
But I also must consider the length of time she was caused this worry and concern. And I 
can see she was reassured by HSBC when she called to complain, that the letter was an 
error, and she wouldnt owe it anything and her debt was settled.  And this was within six 
days of receiving the letter. The letter in question didnt actually say HSBC had already 
reported her debt partially settled to the credit reference agencies  it said it would once 
Mrs As last payment was received. So there was no actual impact on Mrs As credit record. 
And once Mrs A made the final payment, HSBC sent her a letter telling her the Credit 
Reference Agencies records would be updated that the debt was settled. So Im satisfied 
that the partially settled status probably would never have been reported anyway.
So as a mistake has occurred here, when considering an appropriate level of compensation, 
in addition to the emotional impact on her I need to think about any financial loss Mrs A may 
have incurred. I understand from Mrs A that she doesnt consider the costs of postage and 
copying important. But it is important that I acknowledge that she has had this outlay, even if 
she doesnt think it necessary. 
So the financial impact on Mrs A from HSBCs mistake is limited, and can safely be 
considered to be part of the overall compensation. But I agree the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused by it is greater. And compensation to reflect this is a much 
harder thing to quantify. But having taken into account the relatively short period of time until 
HSBC confirmed the correct information, and because there wasnt any actual effect on 
Mrs As credit record, Im satisfied that £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience HSBC caused her. And I understand Mrs As 
frustration that HSBC didnt consider the package of evidence she sent in, but I dont think it 
wouldve made any impact on the compensation it offered. I say that because £150 is 
generally in line with what our service would expect to be offered in circumstances such as 
these.
So, taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that £150 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for both the distress and inconvenience Mrs A was caused, and to cover her 
financial outlay as a result of HSBCs mistake.
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs A £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman