DRN-3766507
The complaint
Mr W complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) wont refund to him the 
money that hes paid under a fixed sum loan agreement for an HGV driving course which 
hasnt been provided to him in full.
What happened
In June 2015, Mr W entered into a finance agreement with Omni to finance a driving course 
with Specialist Training Services. The course included five modules costing a total of £2,497. 
Mr W completed modules one and two and then purchased an extension to the training 
period in October 2019 at a cost of £800. He then booked module three for 23 March 2020, 
but he received an email on 19 March 2020 explaining that all future modules would be 
cancelled because of Covid.
In July 2020, he received an email explaining Specialist Training Services had ceased 
trading. He contacted the centre where the module was due to take place but was told the 
modules had been booked but not paid for by Specialist Training Services. As a result, Mr W 
was unable to complete the course.
He contacted Omni and requested a refund.
Omni Capital rejected Mr Ws claim on the basis he paid for an extension of the course with 
the retailer and didnt complete it in the initial time period of five years. It said this extension 
didnt form part of the finance agreement, so it wasnt liable to arrange for the training to 
continue or refund the cost of the course. 
Dissatisfied as he hadnt received the services he paid for; Mr W brought his complaint to 
this service.
An investigator looked onto things for Mr W. He looked carefully at the terms and conditions 
of the fixed sum agreement and the Driving Course agreement. In his view, the terms 
indicate the contract does allow for extensions, at Mr Ws cost, and that the contract wording 
suggests that if an extension is agreed the contract is amended. So, he felt Omnis position 
that the extension doesnt form part of the finance agreement wasnt fair and reasonable.
Because he found that the extension did form part of the agreement, Omni remained 
responsible for the course and to continue to provide the course to Mr W.
Omni confirmed the course was cancelled due to Covid, and Specialist Training Services 
had entered into administration. Omni also confirmed that Mr W wouldnt be able to continue 
the course where he left of as the retailer hadnt forwarded the payment to the centre.
Mr W had only been able to complete module one and two of the course. A breakdown of his 
training package shows the total cost of module one and two was £200.
The cost of module three, which Mr W had booked but was cancelled, cost £1,299 and 
module four cost £399. There was also a pass protection element of the training package 
which allowed Mr W two re-tests of the practical test costing £599. In total this amounted to 
£2,297.
The investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint and asked Omni to reduce the finance by £2,297 
and refund the £800 he paid to extend the course as a consequential loss of the course not 
going ahead.
Mr W accepted the investigators findings.
Omni did not. It said it couldnt locate the clause the investigator referenced in the training 
course terms and conditions. It says Mr W had 4 years and 4 months to complete his training 
before he applied for an extension. It points to the terms & conditions stating any additional 
fees, including the extension fee, had to be paid in full where there was a request to extend 
beyond the initial 6-month period. It asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant law. Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, in 
certain circumstances, a consumer has an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods 
or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In order 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a breach of contract 
by the course provider and that Omni Capitals response to his claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ws claim under section 75 as 
only a court would be able to do that.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the training course Mr W had paid for.
Im not sure why Omni couldnt locate this condition to extend the course at clause 4 (j) but it 
is there and says:
Trainee Drivers can attend the course(s) they have purchased up to 6 months from their 
initial purchase date  any courses unattended within 6 months of purchase will become null 
and void with no refund applicable. However, if the Trainee Driver contacts The HGV 
Training Centre in writing before the end of their 6-month contractual period it may be 
possible to extend their booking  this is at the discretion of The HGV Training Centre and 
the prevailing cost of the training will apply if applicable. Any additional fees  along with an 
accompanying extension fee  must be paid in full in order to extend a Trainee Drivers 
contract period beyond the initial 6- month period
I appreciate Omni points out it was 4 years on from taking out the fixed sum agreement 
when Mr W was granted an extension to complete the training course until 2 April 2020, 
there is limited information as to why that was the case, but the fact remains Mr W paid for 
and was granted that extension. He booked Module 3 for 23 March 2020.
Obviously, no-one could have foreseen what was going to happen and Module 3 could then 
not go ahead and following that the supplier went into administration having failed to pay for 
the courses, so Mr W was unable to continue them after the pandemic ended.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr W only completed module 1 & 2 and didnt 
start Modules 3 & 4 of the course or that hes received no benefit from it  and the course 
provider has stopped trading so is no longer able to provide the course to him. On balance, I 
consider both these points to be breaches of the contract he took out, and I find it fair and 
reasonable that Omni put things right.Ive looked at the training package and I can see the cost of module three, which Mr W had 
booked but was cancelled, cost £1,299 and module four cost £399. There was also a pass 
protection element of the training package which allowed Mr W two re-tests of the practical 
test costing £599. In total this amounted to £2,297.
The £800 Mr W paid to extend the term of the training course is in my view a consequential 
loss and should also be refunded by Omni.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to:
reduce Mr Ws finance agreement by £2,297
If this results in Mr W having overpaid the agreement, then it should refund the 
overpaid amount to him plus 8% interest simple per year from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
If this results in an outstanding balance, then it should come to a suitable payment 
arrangement with Mr W 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman