DRN-1772013
The complaint
Miss T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has applied unfair charges to her 
business account resulting in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss T complains about the charges over a number of years. These charges when applied to 
her account have often resulted in an overdraft and then in further charges. 
RBS provided details of the charges applied to the account since 2012. It said charges had 
been applied in line with the published tariff and these had been shown on statements. 
There had been a time when the account had been passed to collections. But the position 
had always been brought back to normal management. And in 2013 it had considered her 
request to refund a charge for an unpaid cheque but decided not to do so as it was correctly 
applied. It said it had provided details of its financial support team to Miss T but there is no 
evidence she accessed that.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Following a Supreme 
Court Judgment in 2009 bank charges could not be challenged on the basis that they are too 
high or unfair. It was a matter for RBS to set them. There was nothing in the notes from RBS 
to show that Miss T had said that her business was in financial difficulty. And he didnt see 
there was a basis to require any charges to be refunded.
Miss T did not agree. She said that she has seen similar cases where charges have been 
refunded. And that she had contacted RBS about financial hardship. The fact that she 
cannot now remember exactly when and did not realise she would need to keep a record 
should not be held against her. The outcome here is unjust and unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that RBS was entitled to set the charges applicable to Miss Ts 
business account. And there is no evidence of any error in applying the charges over the 
period of six years we can look back at before she complained.
Miss T is most unhappy about charges when items have been unpaid or referred before 
payment. I dont doubt there have been times when her business has not been performing 
as well. And the account balance has then not operated within the overdraft limit. As 
mentioned above there is evidence in the case notes from RBS that her account has at 
times been referred to collections as a result. So, I can take that into account recognising 
what Miss T says about the difficulty for her in saying exactly when she had financial 
problems.
I would expect RBS to approach such issues positively and sympathetically. But that doesnt 
mean it has to take any particular action such as stopping or refunding charges. And at one 
time it did consider Miss Ts request to refund a specific charge. Her business was able to 
move out of collections and it seems was thought by RBS to have overcome the financial 
issues at those times. 
Taking all this into account I dont have a reasonable basis to say that RBS should refund 
the charges. I appreciate Miss T will be very disappointed by my findings.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman