DRN-3409909
The complaint
Mr B complains that Caxton FX Ltd failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr B held an e-money prepaid card with Caxton. The card was used to hold funds to be
able to pay for items in different currencies. These types of cards are generally used when
travelling abroad.
Mr B says he was last abroad in Europe in 2019 when he used his card and checked the
balance when he returned home. His next trip the following year was postponed due to the
Covid pandemic and it wasnt until later in 2020 that he had occasion to check his card. He
found that all the remaining funds had been removed and contacted Caxton about it.
Caxton confirmed that the remaining funds had been withdrawn from an Automated Teller
Machine (ATM) that was based on a different continent and took place a week or so after Mr
Bs last trip in 2019. Caxton told Mr B that they couldnt raise a Chargeback because it was
beyond the 120-day time limit imposed by the scheme operator, in this case Mastercard. A
Chargeback is a way to challenge card payments and is a process that forms part of
Mastercards scheme.
Caxton advised Mr B to raise a fraud dispute but werent confident they would be able to
help. Mr B asked Caxton to again look into the situation and they declined to refund Mr B
because he was beyond the 13-month rule set out in the terms and conditions of the
account that Mr B had agreed to. This set a time-limit for notifying Caxton about problems
related to payments using the card.
Mr B remained unhappy with how Caxton had handled his situation and brought his
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. It was looked at by one of
our investigators who asked both parties for further information.
Mr B explained that hed never been to the same continent where the withdrawal took place
and still had possession of his card. He did say that hed been asked to swipe his card twice
whilst abroad in 2019, which hes since thought was unusual. Mr B was also unhappy with
how Caxton had dealt with dormancy fees and he thought he should have been contacted by
Caxton once his account was emptied.
Caxtons position remained unchanged in that they relied on the 13-month exclusion. Our
investigator thought that the circumstances of the situation meant that it was appropriate for
Caxton to look into the disputed transactions, even though they were over 13 months after
the date of the disputed transactions.
Caxton explained that since the transaction had taken place, theyd changed the processor
of their cards. They were able to obtain some information from their old processor that
showed two withdrawals from Mr Bs account using an ATM. Caxton said this was proof that
the genuine card was used with the correct Personal Identification Number (PIN). Caxton
explained that Mr Bs card had a Chip in it, which meant that when it was entered into the
ATM, the genuine card was read by the machine and once the PIN was entered, it delivered
the remaining funds. Caxton maintained their position about the refund to Mr B. They
removed the dormancy fees and said theyd tried to contact Mr B about his account.
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable for Caxton to hold Mr B liable because the
genuine card and PIN had been used and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome and sent in a photo of his Caxton card. He
explained that hed never been further than Europe and asked for a further review of his
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
13 Month exclusion
The issue of whether it was reasonable for Caxton to rely on the 13-month exclusion was
discussed in some detail in the investigators outcome. Essentially theres a clause in the
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) that puts a time limit (13 months) on reporting
unauthorised or incorrectly executed transactions. This clause was also present in the terms
and conditions that Mr B signed. But, in certain circumstances, the disputed transactions can
be investigated after this date if its fair and reasonable to do so.
Caxton themselves accept that their cards are often used for trips that tend to have gaps
between them. In Mr Bs case, he had a trip booked the following year and had checked his
account when he came home from the 2019 trip. Im not surprised he didnt check the card
again for some time, as he knew the balance after the last trip. Once his following years trip
was cancelled hed have no further reason to check the card again. By the time he looked at
his balance, the 13-month limit had already passed. Mr B did contact Caxton as soon as he
was aware of the problem and I think its both fair and reasonable for the 13-month clause
to be excluded here.
Authorisation
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are also contained in the Payment Service
Regulations 2017. The basic position is that Caxton can hold Mr B liable for the disputed
payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or
authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case,
Caxton have supplied evidence that shows Mr Bs card and PIN were used to make the
transactions. Caxton have argued that the information they obtained from their old processor
shows that Mr Bs genuine card and PIN were used to make these transactions because the
Chip was read on the card.
This is important because unless Caxton can show it was the genuine card that was used to
make the withdrawal, the evidence already supplied by Mr B would seem to indicate it
couldnt have been the genuine card used to withdraw his funds. Having examined the
authentication evidence, Ive not been able to confirm if the information shows Mr Bs
genuine card was used. Thats because the information doesnt show if the Chip has been
read. What that means is without this particular information, the card used to make the
withdrawal cant be confirmed it was the actual card Mr B was issued with by Caxton or if itwas a cloned card.
Cards such as the one issued to Mr B can be cloned. That usually means the data held on
the magnetic strip is copied on to another card. If the person who cloned it was also able to
acquire the PIN, then the ATM would recognise the cloned card and release the funds.
Mr B has provided photographic evidence that he has his genuine card and I find it unlikely
that this card was used on a different continent and returned to him. Mr B explained that hed
had an unusual transaction the last time he used it when he was abroad, so its plausible
that the details of his card and PIN were obtained at that point.
So, the current evidence provided by Caxton doesnt satisfy the requirements that the two
withdrawals were properly authenticated. Without that, the transactions were unauthorised,
and I dont think its fair or reasonable for Caxton to hold Mr B liable for them.
My current thinking is that because Caxton havent met the requirements to show the
transactions were properly authenticated, and thus unauthorised, Im intending to uphold Mr
Bs complaint. Ill be instructing Caxton to refund Mr B the two withdrawals, add simple
interest at 8% from the date the transactions were first noted ( not from the date they were
made as Mr B had no intention of using the money at that point). Also, to award Mr B £75 for
the inconvenience of losing access to his funds. I understand Mr B wasnt seeking
compensation, but I think its warranted here. Mr B also wanted his dormancy fees refunding
which Caxton have already done, so I dont need to address this point further.
I invited Mr B and Caxton to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties replied and accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to put Mr B back in the position he was prior to the loss of his funds and recognise 
the inconvenience caused to him, Caxton FX Ltd are instructed to refund the two disputed 
transactions, add simple interest at 8% simple from the date the loss was noted (reported to 
Caxton) to the date its repaid and pay Mr B £75.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Caxton FX Ltd and theyre required to:
Refund two disputed transactions to Mr B, recorded as totalling £187.25.
Add 8% simple interest from the date they were noted (reported to Caxton) to the 
date theyre repaid.
Pay Mr B £75 for the inconvenience caused to him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman