DRN-3693266
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank accounts without notice or 
explanation. Hed like the account to be re-opened and compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Mr P had three accounts with Santander  a current account, savings account and credit 
card. On 30 July 2021 Santander notified Mr P his credit card was blocked and his account 
would be closed by 30 September 2021. He was also advised hed need to pay his balance 
within 60 days. 
On 3 August 2021 Mr Ps savings account was closed, and on 6 August 2021 his current 
account was also closed without notice. 
Mr P complained to Santander about their decision to close his accounts. But they didnt 
think theyd acted unfairly in doing so. Santander explained theyd followed their terms and 
conditions and legal and regulatory obligations in doing so. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Santanders reasons so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They thought Santander 
had followed the two months notice required to close his credit card, and theyd acted fairly 
in closing his current account without notice.
 
Mr P didnt agree  in summary he argued the reasons behind Santanders decision to close 
his accounts should be shared with him. 
As Mr P didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps account was closed with immediate notice. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ps account, specifically section 17.3, and the criteria allowing Santander to close Mr Ps 
account without notice. And having done so Im satisfied Santander followed their terms and 
conditions fairly in closing Mr Ps current and savings account with immediate effect. 
Mr Ps credit card was closed by giving 2 months notice. As our investigator outlined 
Santander is entitled to close any credit card by giving 2 months notice, which they did in 
Mr Ps case. 
Mr Ps asked that Santander share the specific information they relied upon in deciding to 
close his accounts. However, our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may 
treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Santander has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. But Id like to reassure Mr P that Im satisfied, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, they acted fairly in taking the actions they did. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr P, but I wont be asking Santander to do anything further 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman