DRN-4066423
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed his accounts and recalled a Bounce 
Back Loan facility.
What happened
Mr C opened a Lloyds business account for his sole trader business in June 2020. He 
successfully applied to the bank for a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan around the same time, 
which was drawn down on 10 June 2020.
On visiting a local branch to carry out a transaction later that month, Mr C was asked to 
provide a copy of his latest tax return and proof of his trading activity to demonstrate that he 
met the eligibility requirements for the Bounce Back Loan hed obtained. The bank restricted 
Mr Cs use of his account, and the loan funds within it, while it looked into things.
Mr C provided some documentation to Lloyds, but the bank wasnt satisfied that this showed 
hed been entitled to the loan. This led it to close Mr Cs business account and terminate the 
Bounce Back Loan facility. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr C on 7 July 2020 to say that it would close his business account in two 
months time, but that blocks had been applied meaning that he couldnt make any payments 
out of the account prior to its closure. In the event, the account remained open for a while 
longer pending the banks resolution of matters relating to the Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr C also held a personal account with Halifax, part of the broader Lloyds Banking Group, 
which was also closed.
On 17 May 2021, Lloyds issued a formal demand for the repayment of the £50,000 loan. It 
said that the terms of the agreement had been broken, as it believed some of the information 
that Mr C had provided in his application had been incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.
Lloyds subsequently applied the £33,200 still held in Mr Cs business account, being 
unspent funds from the Bounce Back Loan, to reduce the loan debt. An amount of £5,250.23 
was also removed from Mr Cs personal account with Halifax and used to pay down the loan 
balance in October 2021, leaving a balance of around £11,500 that Mr C needed to repay.
Mr C doesnt think hes been treated fairly. Hes raised a number of concerns, which Ill 
summarise as follows:
His Lloyds and Halifax accounts were closed without notice or reason, leaving him 
without access to the funds held within them and impacting his ability to manage his 
finances.
He believes that the banks actions were based on a decision made by the staff 
member he spoke with when visiting the branch, and that this was influenced by his 
race rather than anything else.
Since Lloyds closed his accounts, hes been unable to take out new financial 
products elsewhere  and he is concerned that this is because Lloyds has applied 
some sort of marker against his name.
The debt collection agency handling recovery of the Bounce Back Loan on Lloyds 
behalf advised him that he owed £16,800, which wasnt right. This was because the 
bank hadnt applied the funds recovered from his Halifax personal account.
Lloyds didnt respond to his data subject access request (DSAR) properly, having 
simply declined to provide it on the grounds that it had closed his accounts 
legitimately. He believes he is entitled to the information that Lloyds holds on him and 
wants to know what it is that led the bank to close his accounts. 
Lloyds says it hasnt done anything wrong in closing Mr Cs account or terminating the 
Bounce Back Loan facility. It says these decisions were based purely on its concerns about 
Mr Cs entitlement to the loan. It has, though, accepted that there was a delay in applying the 
funds from Mr Cs Halifax account to the Bounce Back Loan and that this meant an 
erroneous amount was demanded by the debt collection agency. It sent Mr C a cheque for 
£75 by way of compensation for the inconvenience this caused. It also sent Mr C a cheque 
for £40 to recognise the delay in dealing with the complaint itself.
Mr Cs complaint has been reviewed by one of our investigators, who didnt recommend that 
the bank take any further action. As Mr C didnt accept his view, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint last month, explaining that I didnt intend 
to uphold it. I said:
The withdrawal of Mr Cs Bounce Back Loan and business account
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a 
business could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular 
relevance here, these included that the loan amount could be no more than 25% of 
the applicants annual turnover, which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 
calendar year.
Mr C applied for a loan of £50,000, having self-declared that he had the requisite 
£200,000 to qualify for this amount. Lloyds approved the application on the basis of 
the information he provided. But the bank was entitled and expected to keep matters 
under review, in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme and wider regulatory requirements. So I dont think it did anything wrong in 
asking Mr C for some more information to verify his eligibility.
Mr C did provide some more information to Lloyds, but the bank didnt think this was 
sufficient to demonstrate that hed been eligible for the loan. I think its decision on 
this was reasonable. I say this because:
Although Mr C has provided a copy of his self-assessment tax return that 
shows he declared a turnover of exactly £200,000 in 2019/20, hes not been 
able to demonstrate that he received this income. He only opened his Lloyds 
business account in June 2020, and hes declined our request for statements 
of any other accounts into which this income wouldve been received.The account statements that we do have dont show much in the way of any 
business activity. The only transactions on Mr Cs Lloyds business account 
are payments out of the account  with loan funds being transferred to 
personal accounts held elsewhere. 
When applying for the account, Mr C declared an annual turnover figure of 
£100,000. This is quite different to the £200,000 he declared when applying 
for the loan. There is no obvious explanation for this significant discrepancy.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Lloyds was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. 
This included where any of the information provided within the application was found 
to have been misleading, incomplete or incorrect. So given what Ive said above, I 
think Lloyds was entitled to terminate the loan in the circumstances here. 
The banks concerns over Mr Cs entitlement to the loan also led it to close his 
business account. The actions it took in restricting and later closing the account were 
in line with the applicable terms and conditions. Given all Ive said above about the 
validity of Lloyds concerns, I think these were reasonable steps for the bank to take. 
The funds in the account were only those that remained from the drawdown of the 
Bounce Back Loan, which the bank legitimately froze so that it could recover them 
and apply them to reduce the loan balance.
With the loan having been defaulted and the balance becoming immediately payable, 
Lloyds removed the remaining funds in Mr Cs business account and applied these to 
the Bounce Back Loan debt. It was entitled to do this under the right of set off that it 
had under the terms and conditions of both the loan and the account. I note the bank 
also recovered some funds from Mr Cs personal account with Halifax. Mr C would 
need to raise a separate complaint with Halifax if hes unhappy about that, as Halifax 
is a separate entity to Lloyds even if they are part of the same banking group. So I 
wont comment on that further here.
I understand Mr C doesnt think that Lloyds had good reason to take the steps it did, 
and is concerned that it was motivated purely by his race. From what hes said to the 
bank and us about this, I understand he is concerned with the involvement of the 
staff member that made the request for information when he visited a branch. As he 
sees it, nothing was wrong until this branch visit when he asked to withdraw some 
money  and he thinks that they then initiated the closure of his accounts, based on 
his race. 
Its difficult for me to comment on the specifics of that interaction that mightve given 
Mr C cause for this concern. Hes described being looked at in a certain way and Ive 
no reason to doubt that he may have been made to feel uncomfortable. But having 
carefully considered what both he and Lloyds have said and provided to us, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds actions were based solely on the legitimate concerns it had as 
to Mr Cs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan that Ive outlined above. Im sorry to 
see that hes had cause even to consider that his race might have been a 
contributing factor but from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it was. 
Delay in offsetting Mr Cs balances
As Ive noted above, Lloyds used the funds held in Mr Cs business account and his 
personal account with Halifax to reduce the amount he owed on the Bounce Back 
Loan. But it took longer than it shouldve done to do this. Lloyds only applied the £33,200 from Mr Cs business account to the loan on 16 
August 2021, and the funds from Mr Cs Halifax account even later still on 8 October 
2021. Ive not seen that this led to Mr C incurring any more interest than he shouldve 
done, as the loan was defaulted prior to any interest being charged. But it did cause 
Mr C some concern and inconvenience when he was being pursued for the wrong 
amount  as he had to follow up with the debt collection agency and the bank to 
rectify this. Lloyds has already apologised for this error and paid him £75 
compensation, which I think is fair way to put this aspect of things right.
The registration of adverse information
Mr C is also concerned that Lloyds has recorded some sort of marker or registered 
adverse information about him, which is in turn impacting his ability to open 
alternative facilities elsewhere. Lloyds has said that it hasnt recorded anything with 
the fraud-prevention agency Cifas, or any similar agencies. And Mr C hasnt 
demonstrated that there is anything on his credit file that is out of place. He may wish 
to follow up with the relevant agencies themselves if he retains any concerns in this 
regard.
Lloyds response to Mr Cs DSAR
From the information that Mr C has sent us, I can see that Lloyds rejected a DSAR 
that he made on the grounds that it had been entitled to close his accounts. The 
question of whether that was complies with the relevant legislation would be a 
question for the Information Commissioners Office rather than something for me to 
decide. But I can consider whether Lloyds acted fairly, and I dont think it did. Mr C 
was asking for any information that he was entitled to, in order to understand (and, if 
necessary, challenge) the rationale for the banks decisions. I dont think it was fair 
for the bank to dismiss this request purely because it concluded that it had closed Mr 
Cs accounts legitimately.
However, I dont think the banks actions in this regard have adversely impacted Mr 
Cs position. The bank subsequently explained to him that it was recalling the Bounce 
Back Loan due to what it considered to be inaccurate information in his application 
form. Hes also been told the same by us. I dont think he wouldve gotten any further 
information from Lloyds that wouldve helped him understand this any better, or that 
wouldve led to a different outcome to this complaint. So even though I think the bank 
couldve handled this request better, I dont think it impacted Mr C in such a way as 
to warrant any further compensation. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information or evidence for me to consider in light of my 
provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this final 
decision simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman