DRN-3835785
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc debited direct debit payments from his account the 
day before they were scheduled to leave his account.
What happened
Mr A says that on 19 January he attempted to put fuel into his vehicle for an early morning 
start on 20 January. He says that he had a small bank balance and an arranged overdraft 
available, but he was aware there was a positive balance on his account. Before refuelling, 
he checked his online banking and he was shocked to see that two direct debits had debited 
from his account early. This left the account overdrawn and he entered an unarranged 
overdraft. He says the transactions were dated 20 January despite it being 19 January.
Mr A says that he gets paid on the 20th of each month, therefore he has direct debits which 
he wants to leave on the 20th each month. He also says that a direct debit that he pays to a 
third party bank was taken on 20 January, when it shouldve been taken on 21 January.
Mr A contacted Santander via their live chat facility to find out how this could happen. He 
says he was initially told that he could raise a direct debit guarantee (DDG) claim and have 
the money refunded to him under the guarantee. Mr A says Santander have later went on to 
claim that there was no error and the direct debits were taken around the due date, that its 
okay if the bank debits the money a day early, its not the banks responsibility and its the 
companies he was paying that have debited the money from his account and he should 
speak to them, he should change the date of the direct debit and Santander wasnt 
responsible for the early presentation of direct debits, amongst other explanations.
Mr A has said that he spoke with some of the companies he pays by direct debit, including 
one which is a third party UK based bank. He says that the companies referred him to 
Santander and he says hes been advised that Santander have ran their direct debit file early 
and thats why this occurred. Mr A made a complaint to Santander. 
Santander did not uphold Mr As complaint. They said they only facilitate direct debit 
collection and that some direct debits are collected during overnight processing and as such 
may leave the night before the due date while showing the date the following day. They said 
if this poses an issue moving forward, he could contact the companies involved and 
reschedule the date of the direct debit.
Santander said that Mr A had been advised correctly that if there was an error then he could 
raise a direct debit indemnity with them, but an error does not appear to have occurred as 
the direct debits showed the correct collection date, although the funds may have been 
withheld or collected the night before, which was not something they can amend or prevent, 
so they suggested he contacted the companies involved to see if they could help him. Mr A 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that a direct debit is an agreement 
between a customer and the organisation collecting the payments, and they are responsible 
for collecting the direct debit in accordance with advance notice issued to Mr A. He said that 
the required funds were earmarked for the pending direct debit, therefore deducted from his 
available balance of his account, so the amounts did not leave his account on the wrong 
day, therefore he did not feel that Santander had done anything wrong.
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that he had presented evidence showing that on 19 January, his 
Santander account was in a negative balance and his account was in an unarranged 
overdraft. He said that the reason for this is that the direct debits which were set up under 
the DDG, to be debited on 20 January, had been taken (whether they were earmarked, 
pending or borrowed) and deducted as a negative balance on his account and therefore he 
couldnt use his available money on 19 January to pay for petrol and other items he needed 
at the time. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing 
on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr A from the outset that Im unable to instruct Santander to change their direct debit 
process.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr A has about what happened here. Ive read all 
about his circumstances on 19 January, so I can understand the frustration he would have 
went through here. I can also see that there appears to have been several explanations 
given to him, which could have confused the situation, leading to Mr A being further 
frustrated. 
Theres no doubt that Mr A was in an unauthorised overdraft on 19 January. Ive seen the 
evidence, and I dont dispute what Mr A has told us here. There may be some technicalities 
which has also confused matters, so Ill try and clear these up here. I know this wont change 
what happened on 19 January, but it may help Mr A understand what likely happened and 
what could happen in the future.
Ive also looked at what Santanders general terms and conditions say about direct debits. 
Section 6.10 of the terms and conditions states that Automatic payments, such as Direct 
Debits and standing orders, are usually taken from your account at the beginning of the 
Working Day that they are due. I know Mr A disputes that the direct debits were taken from 
his account on 20 January as his balance on the evening of 19 January showed that he was 
in an unarranged overdraft due to the direct debits being taken from his available balance. 
But the reason why Mr As account was showing as an unarranged overdraft on the evening 
of 19 January is because the funds for his direct debit had been ringfenced. I know other 
words have been used for this such as withheld, earmarked or pending, but effectively, it is 
the same thing. The money was taken from the available balance to ensure the direct debits 
were paid the following day. This is why he was shown in an unarranged overdraft, as his 
available balance had accounted for the ringfenced direct debits. As this is not explicitly stated in the terms and conditions that this can happen, then I can understand why Mr A 
would have not been aware that this could happen.
But Im satisfied that the direct debits actually left his account on the day they were 
supposed to. This is why they show as leaving the account on 20 January. I know Mr A may 
dispute this, as his statements he sent us on 19 January show that the direct debit has left 
his account already on 20 January. But here, Im persuaded that Santander are showing that 
the direct debits would physically leave his account on 20 January. As they had already 
ringfenced this money, then they would be aware that it would be physically leaving his 
account the following day and this is reflected on his transactions  even if it is shown the 
evening before this physically left his account.
Im not persuaded there is any detriment to Mr A for Santander showing when the funds 
would be leaving his account on the day after, when the funds had been ringfenced and 
accounted for in his available balance on 19 January, although I can understand why this 
would be confusing for Mr A especially as the crux of his complaint is that he believed he 
would have access to his money when he was aware the direct debits were going to be 
debited from his account the following day. 
In addition, Mr A has highlighted that this doesnt always happen with his direct debits. He 
has said that it happened before, but it didnt affect him as he had money in his account. And 
it happened the following day (20 January) when it appeared the direct debit left his account 
the day early, but again this didnt affect him as he had been paid that day. Mr A said on his 
complaint form to our service that since he complained about the issue, no direct debits have 
been taken early again.  
So Ive considered why this would sometimes happen and sometimes not happen. Based on 
the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS) cycle for direct debits, which our 
investigator explained to Mr A, this is a three day process. The direct debit company would 
submit a payment for BACS for a processing cycle on day one. On day two, these files are 
delivered to the recipient bank, which they then process each payment and day three is 
where payments are simultaneously debited from Mr As account and credited to the third 
party account. 
Santander have told us that some direct debits are collected during overnight processing.
They said that the accounting date for transactions changes at approximately 8.15pm each 
evening, and payment batches for the next day begin processing after this time. Santander 
said that if the batches for other transactions are completed due to low volumes, then the 
direct debit batch may begin on the evening before the payment is due. This could also show 
for the customer from this time. Santander have said that the payment will still be made on 
the scheduled payment date, and the transaction will show with the correct value date on the 
movements (Mr As statement).
So Im satisfied that this is the reason that sometimes the processing of the direct debit - 
which is different to the direct debit physically leaving the account (although from Mr As 
point of view, this will still result in a reduction of his available balance as the direct debits 
are ringfenced and he still wouldnt be able to use the money), shows sometimes on his 
account on the night before (after 8:15pm although it could be later that evening).
As Ive previously mentioned, Im unable to ask a business to change their processes. I 
know Mr A wants Santander to ensure this doesnt happen again, but I cant guarantee this. 
And ultimately, regardless of whether this was Santanders fault or the direct debit 
companies fault, the same situation could happen again. And it also could occur at a third 
party bank. So as Mr A is now aware of how the direct debits are processed, he may wish to 
change his direct debit date to a date after his salary credits the account  although this may not prevent a direct debit being ringfenced the night before it is due, based on what Ive 
already explained.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the DDG scheme. But I dont think it would have 
been in Mr As interests to go down this route and Ill explain why. As Ive already explained, 
the direct debit itself was physically taken from Mr As account on the correct day based on 
the BACS cycle, even if it may appear that it came out the night before, so Mr A would not 
be eligible for the DDG scheme here as there was no error on the collection date. 
But even if Santander raised a refund claim for him, as the third party company would have 
been owed this money, they would have taken it from Mr As account at a later date, which 
could have caused more inconvenience to him. In addition to this, if any of the direct debits 
were for borrowing or insurance, Mr A may have broken the agreements if he had a refund 
of the payment. And in turn this couldve been reported on his credit file as a missed/late 
payment for borrowings, which could affect his ability to obtain credit in the future. In the 
event of an insurance payment being missed, this could have ended his insurance contract if 
the insurer did not receive the payment by a certain date.
Ive considered whether Santander have treated Mr A as I would have expected them to, 
given the individual circumstances of what happened here. And Im not persuaded that they 
have. The explanations they gave to Mr A on occasion werent clear and this caused him 
further frustration and appeared to be contradictory. And Ill explain why.
Mr A was told by a chat agent that Most banks take (a direct debit) a day early, to then give 
the merchant on the day they expect it. But this would contradict what another chat agent 
told him that the direct debit debits when (a) company claims it. So initially it would appear 
Santander take an active control of taking the money a day early so they could give it to the 
company on the day they expect it. But then for Mr A to be told the direct debit debits his 
account when the company claims it, is not the same as what he was previously told. Then 
he was told The bank does not control the collection of direct debits, we only facilitate it. 
So Mr A had been given three separate explanations for what happened here, which arent 
similar. It is also suggested to him that he may want to discuss the collection date with the 
direct debit companies themselves. But no matter what date the direct debits were set up, 
this wouldnt stop the direct debit being ringfenced the night before on occasion, which is the 
crux of Mr As complaint. 
So when Mr A rang the direct debit companies involved and they all informed him this was a 
Santander error, including a bank he spoke to, this further reinforced to Mr A that Santander 
were debiting the direct debit earlier than it had been agreed, especially when he had been 
told by a third party that the error occurred when Santander ran their direct debit files early.
If the full explanation had been given to Mr A initially that some direct debits were collected 
during overnight processing and that the accounting date for transactions changes at 
approximately 8.15pm each evening, and payment batches for the next day begin 
processing after this time. And if he was told that the batches for other transactions are 
completed due to low volumes, then the direct debit batch may begin on the evening before 
the payment is due, which could also show for him at this time, then Mr A would have had a 
definitive answer of what happened, even if he may have not liked the explanation. 
Then Mr A would not have needed to talk to the direct debit companies or be under the 
impression that he just needed to complete a refund claim under the DDG scheme, which 
could have caused serious consequences for him. But because he was given different 
reasons of what happened, this led to further inconvenience for him.So what I think would be fair here, is that Santander recognise the inconvenience that they 
caused Mr A, who I would not expect to be familiar with the technicalities of how a direct 
debit is processed and to provide him compensation for the inconvenience they have caused 
him. Im persuaded that £75 would reflect the inconvenience that they have caused Mr A for 
the reasons Ive already given. So it follows I intend to ask Santander to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Santander accepted the provisional decision. Mr A did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr A £75 for inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome 
for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should settle the 
complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman