DRN-3616273
Complaint
Mrs H says Oakbrook Finance Limited (Likely Loans) irresponsibly lent to her. Shes said 
reasonable checks cannot have been carried out as such checks would clearly have shown 
that her debts were increasing and the loans were unaffordable.
Background
This complaint is about three loans that Likely Loans provided to Mrs H from April 2019 
onwards. Loan 1 was for £1,700.00 and was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of 
£111.40. Loan 2 was provided in January 2020 and was for £3,000.00 and some of the 
proceeds from this loan were used to repay the outstanding balance on loan 1. 
Loan 2 was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £157.91 but was settled in full before the 
first instalment. Mrs Hs last loan was provided in November 2020. This loan was for an 
amount of £4000.00 and due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £210.89. 
Our investigator didnt think that Likely Loans had done anything wrong when providing 
these loans and so didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision  on 12 July 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold      
Mrs Hs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Mrs Hs complaint. 
I went on to explain that Likely Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks 
to make sure Mrs H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. I set out that with this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Likely Loans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
I also explained that there may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Likely Loans said it agreed to Mrs Hs applications after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search  
it carried out on Mrs H and statistical information from the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS). 
The information Mrs H provided about her income and expenditure showed shed be able to 
make the repayments she was committing to. And the information obtained showed the 
required payments were affordable. Likely Loans said, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mrs H said she was in financial difficulty. I carefully 
thought about what Mrs H and Likely Loans had said.
Loan 1 was Mrs Hs first loan with Likely Loans. Likely Loans did carry out external checks 
and didnt simply rely on what it was told. It carried out a credit search which didnt show 
anything too alarming. Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, and Mrs Hs lack of 
any previous lending with Likely Loans, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Likely Loans to 
have proceeded on the basis of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it 
appeared to be accurate. So I didnt think that it was unreasonable for Likely Loans to have 
provided loan 1 to Mrs H.
I did think that there was an argument for saying that Likely Loans ought to have carried out 
further enquiries into Mrs Hs circumstances when she applied for loan 2  after all this was 
Mrs Hs second loan and she hadnt even repaid loan 1 at this stage. However, I was mindful 
that this loan was settled in full before the first payment was even due. And bearing in mind 
the remaining interest on loan 1 was more than what she paid on loan 2, I was satisfied that 
Mrs H didnt lose out as a result of taking loan 2. 
That said, I didnt think that the same could be said for loan 3. I thought this because having 
looked at the overall pattern of Likely Loans lending history with Mrs H, I was of the view  
that Likely Loans should reasonably have seen that Mrs H was unlikely to have been able to 
make her payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 3. 
I said this because by this stage Mrs H had an established borrowing pattern of taking out high 
cost loans. Our investigator referred to a 10-month break between loan 2 being repaid and loan 
3 being taken. However, any credit check carried out is likely to have shown that Mrs H just 
borrowed from other high-cost lenders during this period instead. And, in my view, this pattern of 
borrowing was indicative of Mrs H borrowing further to cover the hole repaying previous loans 
was leaving in her finances.  
I thought that Likely Loans provided loan 3 to Mrs H in circumstances where it ought reasonably 
to have realised that Mrs H was only likely to be able to repay what she was being lent by 
borrowing further. And this is in itself was considered unsustainable according to the rules set 
out by the regulator. Furthermore, I didnt think that relying statistical data from the ONS, which was unlikely to be 
representative anyway given the wider situation at the time, was fair and reasonable in 
circumstances where Mrs Hs indebtedness and reliance on high cost credit was increasing.  
Mrs Hs indebtedness and borrowing history suggested that she fell outside the portfolio of the 
average borrower, which ONS statistics were based on.
So I didnt think that the checks Likely Loans carried out before providing loan 3 were 
reasonable and proportionate and if such checks had been carried out Likely Loans would more 
likely than not have seen that it was increasing Mrs Hs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
All of this left me intending to issue a final decision which concluded that Likely Loans didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing loans 1 and 2 but that it did do so when providing loan 
3. So overall this left me intending to partially uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mrs H, which I found addressed Likely 
Loans failings and Mrs Hs resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, or asked for any further time to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to partially uphold Mrs Hs complaint. And as neither 
party has provided any further arguments for me to consider, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. So Im still partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. And I remain satisfied 
that Likely Loans needs to put things right for Mrs H. 
Fair compensation  Likely Loans needs to do put things right for Mrs H
Having thought about everything, Likely Loans should put things right for Mrs H by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 3 from the outset. The 
payments Mrs H made, whether to Likely Loans or any other party, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £4,000.00 originally lent. If Mrs H has 
already repaid more than £4,000.00 then Likely Loans should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs H to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Likely Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from Mrs Hs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely 
Loans must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 26 July 2022, Im partially 
upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Oakbrook Finance Limited should put things right for Mrs H in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman