DRN-2751949
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to protect her from 
becoming the victim of a scam. This complaint has been brought by a representative 
(Mr M) but for ease of reference, Ill mainly refer to Mrs M throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs M held an account with Barclays and sadly fell victim to a scam towards the end of May 
in 2020. She was contacted by a fraudster claiming to be from Barclaycard security team, 
who said there were a lot of scams occurring during lockdown, and said they were calling 
her as such scams were especially prevalent in her area. The fraudster told her that even 
the cashiers in the banks were scamming customers, such that her money was no longer 
safe in her account.
Mrs M says the fraudster proceeded to call her several times a week to see how she was 
and to request that she move her money to a more secure location. She says he gained her 
trust over time and persuaded her to withdraw large sums of money in branch, where she 
would then give it to a courier who came to her house to collect it. 
Over the period of 20 May 2020 to 19 June 2020, Mrs M made the following withdrawals 
across three different branches:
Date Transaction Type Branch Amount (£)
20/05/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch A £6,500
21/05/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch A £35,000
22/05/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch B £10,000
27/05/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch C £5,000
27/05/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch A £10,000
28/05/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch A £5,000
3/06/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch A £45,000
4/06/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch B £5,000
19/06/2020 Cash withdrawal Branch A £3,500
Total £125,000
Mrs M says she was told by the scammer to tell the banks the money was for her son, who 
was starting a business and needed the cash. She withdrew a total of £125,000 from her 
account with Barclays over the course of four weeks. Sometime later, she subsequently 
realised she had been scammed and told Mr M. Mrs M complained that Barclays didnt do 
more to protect her as a vulnerable 87-year-old woman and allowed her to withdraw 
significant sums of money as she did not usually do this.  
Barclays said they had no cause to believe that Mrs M should be considered vulnerable, and 
that she visited their branches and was questioned on numerous occasions, but said she still 
wanted to continue with the withdrawals. They say she told branch staff that the withdrawals 
were presents for her sons. After several withdrawals, Barclays said they became suspicious 
and contacted the police in line with the banking protocol. The police were called on two 
separate occasions, but each time after questioning Mrs M, had no concerns she was falling 
victim to a scam, so the withdrawals were processed. Barclays say that Mrs M was confident 
and provided full detailed explanations for each of the withdrawals, so there was nothing 
more they could have done to prevent the scam, as she was even able to convince the 
police. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered that Barclays ought to have 
involved the police sooner, given that the withdrawals were out of character for Mrs M. But 
given that the police were contacted twice and had no concerns, he didnt think that any 
earlier intervention wouldve made a difference, or that Barclays couldve done anything 
more to have prevented the scam. Mrs M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me 
to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
It is common ground that Mrs M authorised the cash withdrawals she made in branch. She 
was duped by the fraudster into instructing her branch to hand over a total of £125,000 in 
cash so she could give it to their courier. They deceived her over the phone into thinking that 
her account was at risk of fraud from Barclays staff, and told her to transfer it to a safe 
account i.e. their account. The fraudster also coached her to tell the branch staff if asked, 
that the cash was for her son.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs M was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to authorise and withdraw the money 
in branch. So, although she thought she was withdrawing her money to place it in a safe 
account and did not intend it to go to the fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs M is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers account. But 
taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Barclays should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. For branch transactions/withdrawals like this, those steps may include following the 
Banking Protocol where appropriate.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays should have done more to identify Mrs Ms 
withdrawal requests as being potentially linked to a scam and prevented her from making 
them, because there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular payment or withdrawal. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character.
Having considered Mrs Ms statements over the 12 months prior to the scam, I do consider 
that the withdrawals were particularly unusual and out of character, as her statements show 
that she did not typically make large withdrawals of cash in branch. I appreciate that 
Barclays did eventually follow the Banking Protocol and involve the police. But this was not 
until 28 May 2020, by which point she had already made five previous withdrawals 
amounting to over £66,000. 
Briefly, the protocol recommends that when an older or vulnerable customer wishes to make
an unusually large cash withdrawal, staff should tactfully enquire why it is needed, point out
the dangers of carrying a lot of cash, point to other ways of making the payment and, where
possible, take the customer to a private area. If they have suspicions that the customer is at 
risk of falling victim to a scam, the protocol states that they should call the police.
I appreciate that Barclays did not consider Mrs M to be a vulnerable person. But she was 87 
years old, which is a relevant factor here. Both the Banking Protocol and the BBA report on 
customers in vulnerable circumstances acknowledge that elderly customers are more likely 
to be targeted by scammers because of their circumstances and trusting nature.
Considering all of this, I am satisfied that there were several indicators that Mrs M could be 
at risk, and that Barclays ought fairly and reasonably to have been alerted by her withdrawal 
requests, such that they should have intervened sooner than they did, from the first 
withdrawal she made on 20 May 2020.
However, I need to consider whether any earlier intervention by Barclays in line with the 
Banking Protocol would have likely made any difference to the circumstances of the scam, 
and whether it wouldve ultimately prevented the loss from occurring. And having considered 
all the evidence, on balance, Im not satisfied it would have made any difference. Ill explain 
why.
Mrs M had told staff that she was withdrawing the money to give to her sons as a surprise. 
Barclays did eventually follow steps of the Banking Protocol and questioned Mrs M around 
the circumstances of the withdrawals she was making in a private area, offered to make the 
transfers electronically, and eventually called the police on 28 May 2020. Barclays were 
unable to keep Mrs M in branch that day, but she was visited by the police at home, who 
questioned her further about the nature of the withdrawals she was making and spoke to her 
about the risk of fraud. Mr M has said that the police left Mrs M her with their contact details 
but didnt mention they were concerned she was falling victim to a scam. So, the police were 
not able to get to the bottom of what was happening the first time they spoke to Mrs M.
The police were subsequently called a second time by Barclays after she went to make a 
further withdrawal on 3 June 2020. This time, they were able to keep Mrs M in branch so 
they could speak to her before the withdrawal. Barclays notes from the time state that the 
police had a full conversation with Mrs M in private, but that she was not showing any signs 
of a memory loss related illness, so they had no reason to believe that what she was telling 
them was false. The notes state that the police had taken into consideration that she still had 
an income and concluded that she was dividing her money between her sons in the easiest way she knew how. The police did not voice any concerns about the withdrawals, so 
Barclays proceeded to allow her to make them.
So, considering that Mrs M was able to convince the police on two separate occasions that 
she was withdrawing her money for a legitimate purpose, and was not acting under the 
instructions of scammers, I do not think its likely that the staff at Barclays wouldve had any 
better prospect of breaking the spell she was under in order to prevent her falling victim to 
the scam.
Mrs M believed that dishonest staff from Barclays were involved and had been briefed by the 
fraudster to keep the true purpose of the withdrawals a secret. Its clear that Mrs M was very 
convincing in what she said, as the police had no concerns she was being scammed. So I 
dont think any earlier intervention or invocation of the Banking Protocol by Barclays 
wouldve made any difference in this scenario, because I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs M wouldve maintained the pretence that she was withdrawing cash to give to her sons 
as a surprise. I think she wouldve been concerned about leaving her money in her Barclays 
account, as she was under the belief that the cashiers were scamming their customers. So I 
think she would have stuck to her story, no matter which point Barclays intervened. And 
given that the police were not able to get to the bottom of what was unfolding, I do not think 
that any further probing or in-depth questioning from Barclays would have done so either. 
Overall, whilst I think Barclays ought to have done more from very first withdrawal Mrs M 
made, Im not persuaded this would have ultimately made a difference and I think she would 
have proceeded with the withdrawals in any case. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs M being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on her and her family. But it would only be fair for me to 
direct Barclays to refund her loss if I thought they were responsible for the failure that 
caused it. And while Ive made it clear that Barclays ought to have acted sooner, Im not 
persuaded that they wouldve been able to prevent Mrs Ms loss. So, I cannot fairly and 
reasonably hold them liable in these circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr M considers that Barclays should have contacted him if they had any 
concerns that Mrs M was falling victim to a scam. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Mr M was named on the account, or that Mrs M had given any prior instructions or 
authorisation for Barclays to contact him in any such circumstances. Barclays obligations in 
this scenario were to follow the Banking Protocol and involve the police, which they 
eventually did. So I do not think theyve acted unreasonably by failing to contact Mr M, as 
this would have also risked them breaching Mrs Ms data rights given that he was not named 
as an authorised party on her account at the time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mrs M, as I know they feel strongly about this matter. But in 
the circumstances, I will not be asking Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman