DRN-3952117
The complaint
Ms R and Mr T are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to refund several years of direct 
debit payments that were taken in error.
What happened
Ms R contacted Lloyds to ask it to refund several years of direct debit payments in line with 
the rules of the direct debit guarantee. She said she had cancelled the direct debit with the 
third party beneficiary. Lloyds initiated a claim which automatically triggered the refund of 
one months payment but it then needed to investigate further as the claim covered multiple 
months. The supplier would not assist, and defended the claim, explaining it could not 
disclose information to anyone but the accountholder. It advised Ms R would need to contact 
it further to discuss the disputed payments. Lloyds did not therefore refund any further 
months payments.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms R and Mr Ts complaint. He said Lloyds had acted fairly, 
and there was no evidence of a bank error.
Unhappy with this assessment Ms R and Mr T asked for an ombudsmans review. Ms R said 
the money was taken in error as she had cancelled the direct debit. This means under the 
terms of the direct debit guarantee Lloyds must immediately refund all payments. It has 
ignored the rules and she wants to know why. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the direct debit guarantee say:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount
paid from your bank or building society.
The direct debit guarantee enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from
their bank in certain  but by no means all  circumstances. Its purpose is to provide
protection to customers who have provided originators with access to their accounts in order
to collect money. But most genuine errors in payments will usually come to light relatively
quickly. Where thats the case, in most circumstances I might expect the bank to refund
immediately. But where several years have elapsed without the payments being challenged,
as is the case here, I rather think that does call into question whether the claim is valid, and 
further investigation is reasonable. I am aware Ms R feels strongly that she does not have to 
contact the supplier, but in such circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds is not obliged to refund 
immediately - and without question - several years of payments, as Ms R says.
 
In my view, the details of the direct debit guarantee Ive highlighted above mean that
the entitlement to a refund isnt absolute. It requires that an error is made in the payment of
the direct debit. Ms R has not provided any supporting evidence that demonstrates that the 
payments she is now disputing were made in error. Based on what Ive seen, I dont believe 
the fair way to resolve this dispute would be for me to simply require Lloyds to refund Ms R 
and Mr T with no further evidence that the payments were taken in error. 
Lloyds contacted the supplier to try to investigate further but the supplier will only discuss the 
disputed payments with Ms R. I find, in the round, Lloyds made a fair decision that it could 
not progress the claim given the circumstances. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms R and Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman