DRN-2279307
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Than (RSA) didnt 
renew his home insurance policy when he asked it to. As a result, the policy lapsed.
What happened
Mr H called RSA in January 2020 to renew his buildings and contents insurance policy. He 
discussed the renewal with an advisor on the phone and confirmed his bank details to make 
payment.
In March 2020 Mr H noticed the debit to RSA was not showing on his card statement, so he 
called them to find out what had gone wrong. 
RSA explained the payment had not gone through in January and as a result the policy had 
lapsed. Mr H was unhappy that he hadnt been notified and asked for the policy to be 
reinstated  which RSA arranged. To apologise for the inconvenience caused RSA paid £20 
to Mr H.
Mr H remained unhappy and complained to RSA. He wanted to understand what had gone 
wrong in January and why he hadnt been informed. RSA responded and said it couldnt find 
out exactly what had happened  but it agreed to pay Mr H a further £150 to recognise the 
distress and worry this caused. 
Mr H still wasnt satisfied, so he brought the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He asked RSA if it could find out any further information 
on why the payment hadnt gone through which resulted in the policy lapsing.
RSA said it couldve been an error that the adviser made, or it couldve been an error with 
their system  but it couldnt say which. It also explained that if a payment isnt made, then 
the policy doesnt renew and as a result no paperwork is sent to the customer. Thats why 
Mr H wasnt provided with any policy documents or notified that the policy had lapsed.
The investigator explained this to Mr H and he also said he thought the total compensation 
of £170 paid was fair in the circumstances. Mr H still disagreed  he maintained that he 
wanted to know why the error had happened. As a result, the complaint has been passed to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons - 
Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr H called to renew his policy in January, and he agreed to make 
payment over the phone. But whats not clear is why the payment didnt go through, which 
led to Mr H being un-insured for a period of roughly 5 weeks.
I understand Mr H feels strongly about this matter and wants to know why the payment 
failed. He has said this situation caused him a lot of stress and worry  which I dont doubt. 
But Ive looked at the information provided by RSA and I think its done all it can to try and 
work out what happened. Unfortunately, its simply not clear if there was an error made by 
the adviser taking the payment, or whether it just failed to go through. In this instance, I dont 
think RSA needs to do anything further to find out what happened  especially as it has 
accepted the error was its fault and not Mr Hs.
RSA acted quickly to put things right when Mr H called them to query the missing payment. It 
listened back to the call made in January, arranged to re-instate the policy and backdated it 
to the renewal date in January. It also recognised the stress, worry and inconvenience this 
caused Mr H and in total paid £170 compensation. As a result, I think RSA has done enough 
to put things right and I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman