DRN-2602058
The complaint
Mr C complains that he has suffered financial loss due to the poor level of service 
provided by his independent financial adviser (IFA), Quilter Financial Planning Solutions 
Limited trading as Positive Solutions. I have referred to the business as Quilter in the 
rest of this decision.
What happened
In October 2018, after receiving advice from Quilter, Mr C transferred his defined 
benefit pension scheme into a personal pension plan with Transact. His transfer value 
at that time was around £830,000. Mr C was assessed as having an adventurous 
attitude to risk (ATR). It was agreed that Quilter would provide Mr C with ongoing 
advice in relation to his pension plan, for a charge of 0.5% per year. This complaint 
does not concern the advice received at the time of transfer.
By July 2019, Mr Cs pension plan had increased to around £996,000 in value. Mr C says 
that as a result, he contacted his adviser because he wanted to, as Mr C referred to it, 
sandbank the profits made and put this into a lower risk fund to protect it from any 
decrease in the overall fund value. He had in mind placing around £100,000 in cash. He 
contacted his IFA to discuss and arrange for this strategy to be invoked. 
Mr C said there was a long delay in his IFA getting back to him on this and it was not until 
the end of September 2019 that the adviser arranged a meeting with him to discuss this 
option. Quilter said, in summary, as Mr Cs proposed strategy was not necessarily 
consistent with an adventurous ATR, Mr Cs adviser considered it appropriate to have a 
meeting to see if Mr Cs circumstances and ATR had changed. Mr C didnt consider that 
such a meeting was necessary as his ATR had not changed. He cancelled the meeting the 
day before it was due to take place. Mr C said because he had lost trust in his adviser. 
By October 2019, Mr Cs plan value had decreased to around £919,000. Mr C takes the 
view that he lost around £76,000, as a result of the poor service provided by his IFA. 
Mr C raised his concerns with Quilter. To put things right, Mr C wanted Quilter to cover his 
financial loss. Further, he wanted to be put in touch with a new adviser and all charges 
associated with the plan to be cancelled and some of the adviser charges already paid to 
be refunded.
Quilter responded in November 2019. It did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. However, it did 
agree to put him in touch with a new adviser. Also, as Mr C had been paying his ongoing 
charges in advance, it agreed to refund charges taken from March 2019 onwards. It also 
agreed to pay him a notional amount calculated as if these charges had been invested in 
line with Mr C being an adventurous investor. For the purposes of calculating this notional 
amount, Quilter used a benchmark which it said was appropriate for an adventurous 
investor. It also made an adjustment for tax, so that if Mr C wished to pay this amount back 
into his pension plan he would be in the same situation as if this amount had been invested.
Mr C didnt agree with Quilters view. He referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it, finding, overall, that Quilter had responded 
fairly and reasonably to Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. In summary, Mr C said that:
He paid Quilter for their expertise and to act with integrity;
The fact he wanted to remove some of his fund and place it in cash to protect it from 
a change in market position was nothing to do with his ATR. His new IFA agrees 
this is a prudent way to protect his pension assets;
It was a simple process and had his IFA told him how to go about it, he would have 
made it happen;
The fact that he subsequently made a profit is not the issue. Markets rise and fall  
he questions what would have happened had his funds dropped by £70,000 and 
stayed at that level; 
He gave his IFA a clear instruction to execute the transfer;
He finds it strange Quilter cant evidence that calls were made by his adviser, mobile 
phone records should show this; and
He had to contact Quilter twice before he was put in contact with a new adviser.
Mr Cs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is conflicting evidence, I have to decide what is more likely to have 
happened than not, based on the balance of probabilities. Having considered all of the 
evidence, I am not going to uphold Mr Cs complaint, Ill explain why.
Contact with the adviser
Mr C contacted his adviser as follows:
12 July 2019  he phoned and asked how he could move some profit into a 
lower risk fund to protect it from any market  movements;
16 August 2019  Mr C sent a text message to his adviser chasing a response. 
That day, Mr C received a response from his adviser saying he was away for a 
week but would meet with Mr C when he returned stating that what Mr C was 
looking to achieve was not an easy process; and
20 September 2019  Mr C received an email from his adviser asking to arrange 
a meeting on a date convenient to Mr C.
Quilter says:The adviser confirmed during the phone call on 12 July 2019 that he would need 
to arrange an appointment to discuss the matter. The adviser spoke to Transact 
about the issue and attempted to contact Mr C on his return, but received no 
reply.
After the exchange of text messages on 16 August 2019, the adviser tried to 
contact Mr C again on two more occasions, but didnt get any response; and
After the email which was sent on 20 September 2019, Mr C replied on 30 
September and an appointment was arranged for 4 October 2019. However, 
this appointment was then cancelled by Mr C on 3 October 2019.
As our investigator said, Mr Cs and Quilters timelines for actual contact made are the 
same. The main difference here is that Mr Cs IFA said he attempted to contact Mr C in 
between times, without success, and Mr Cs said, in essence, these calls were unlikely 
to have been made because his adviser cant provide evidence of this and he had no 
missed calls during this period. Quilter said that the adviser enquired with his mobile 
phone company and it doesnt retain information like this, due to the nature of his call 
plan. Mr C appears to think this explanation is not credible.
Based on what Ive been told by both parties, the evidence here is insufficient to establish 
whether Mr Cs adviser made these additional calls or not. Like our investigator concluded, 
I cant fairly say that the adviser didnt make additional attempts to contact Mr C based on 
whats available. 
I also accept what Mr Cs said about not being aware of any missed calls. Ive noted his 
reasons for cancelling the meeting, the day before it was due to take place. I appreciate Mr 
C may have lost confidence in his adviser, but, I think having a meeting was an important 
part of the advice process.
Did Mr C instruct the adviser to transfer £100,000 into cash in July 2019 or August 2019 
when he discussed matters with him?
Mr C said he instructed his adviser to transfer £100,000 into cash, which that adviser did 
not execute. From what Ive seen, I dont consider that Mr Cs instruction was that specific 
or precise. I think a one-off switch in this way probably would have been relatively simple to 
arrange. When Mr C contacted Transact about a switch, I understand it explained the 
process of transferring some money into cash, and that this was something Mr C could do 
without professional support. But from what Mr Cs said, I think what he discussed with his 
adviser went beyond a one-off switch. It seemed he wanted to put in place a regular 
process where the profit made from the investment was switched into cash (sandbagged), 
so that it did not decrease in value. As I see it, what Mr C had in mind formed part of his 
investment strategy and therefore it was appropriate that he fully understood the 
consequences of such a strategy.
So, I cant see that Quilter failed to execute an instruction given by Mr C at that time.
Financial loss
Mr C said his strategy to sandbag profits, placing some funds in cash had nothing to do 
with his ATR. I disagree, a strategy like this, as Mr C identified himself is deployed for 
protection purposes. If money is held in cash, it will be protected from market variations in 
terms of losses, but also it wont be able to benefit from market rises. Holding money in 
cash will lead to loss over time, due to depreciation. Mr Cs fund had risen by £166,000 
(nearly 10%) in the period of less than a year since Quilter became his adviser. If there 
was less in the fund to invest, due to this sandbagging strategy, this could also impact on investment gains. So, as I see it, it was right and proper that Quilter discussed this strategy 
with Mr C. Particularly, as I understand it, this was not intended to be a one off situation.  
So, I think his ATR to risk was an appropriate consideration.
So, like our investigator, I think it was a prudent course of action for his adviser to want to 
discuss matters fully with him to ensure that Mr C could make an informed choice in 
relation to his investment decisions. I cant see that Mr C said he wanted an urgent 
meeting. But, I also think the adviser couldve responded in a more timely way, after all he 
only told Mr C he was away for a week during this period. 
As an adventurous investor, the highs and lows in terms of investment performance are 
likely to be more significant than is the case with someone who has a low risk investment 
strategy, for example keeping money in cash. As our investigator highlighted, pension 
plans are long terms investments, so increases and decreases have also to be seen 
within that context. I understand that Mr Cs plan subsequently made a profit. It seems his 
fund value increased again to just over £1.5 million. The money that Mr C had in mind to 
place in cash off course remained in his plan for longer, and was able to benefit from any 
investment returns. Looked at as a whole, I cant see that Mr C has suffered a financial 
loss as a direct consequence of the adviser failing to act in a timely way. Mr C queries 
what would have happened if his plan had lost £70,000 and then remained at that level of 
loss, rather than later increasing in value again, as his plan did. Had that been the 
situation, Mr Cs case would have been considered on that set of facts and 
circumstances. 
Ive also noted that the risk questionnaire Mr C completed at the outset said he had a risk 
tolerance level of 25% i.e. he was prepared to have a decrease in the value of his 
investment of up to 25% at any given time. Mr Cs not told us that his ATR was assessed 
wrongly. The reduction in the value of his fund between October 2019 and July 2019 (July 
being when Mr C says he instructed Quilter to move it) was less than 25%, so within his 
tolerance level.
So, overall, I cant see that Mr C has lost out financially, as a result of the service provided 
by Quilter. I think there was some delay organising the meeting, so I have considered this 
in the context of the charges paid by Mr C.  
Charges
Mr C appears to accept that he agreed to pay 0.5% per year to Quilter for ongoing 
charges. He also agreed to pay a charge for the advice he received on transfer. Based 
on what I have seen, I dont have any grounds for requiring that any of his transfer 
advice charge is repaid. Mr C states that given the poor level of service he received, 
ongoing charges should be refunded.
Ive concluded that Quilter couldve been quicker to arrange the meeting to discuss Mr 
Cs proposed sandbagging strategy and how to implement that, if appropriate.
Ive looked carefully at Quilters proposal in relation to the return of charges. It has 
agreed to pay a notional uplift, to put Mr C back in the position as if these charges 
continued to be invested in line with his adventurous ATR. I think Quilters response is 
fair and reasonable, to refund the charges Mr C paid in advance, between May 2019 and 
October 2019, with the notional uplift. I couldnt fairly have ordered it to do more than it 
has offered to do, so I do not uphold this aspect of Mr Cs complaint either. 
New adviserMr C said he lost confidence in his old adviser. He asked Quilter to put him in contact with 
a new adviser. Mr C said he had to chase Quilter for this information. I can see that Mr C 
wouldve found this frustrating, given he already felt that Quilter had let him down. But, I 
think Quilter did what it was required to do here by refunding the charges with an uplift to 
put matters right and it did provide him with details of a new adviser. So, I dont think this 
warrants a separate compensation award.
My final decision
For the 
reasons 
explained 
above, I do 
not uphold Mr 
Cs complaint 
and leave Mr 
C to decide if 
he wishes to 
accept Quilter 
Financial 
Planning 
Solutions 
Limiteds, 
trading as 
Positive 
Solutions, 
offer of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman