DRN-3178539
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him without due cause. 
What happened
In May 2018, Barclays received an application for an account in Mr As name. It said there 
were discrepancies within that application  namely an undisclosed address. So it rejected 
the application, and referred Mr A to Cifas who registered a fraud prevention marker against 
Mr A. 
Mr A said he did not make the application and was unaware of the marker for some time. He 
said he found out when he was attempting to buy another property through an auction. He 
paid £6,000 in non-refundable auction fees, and applied for a mortgage. It was all going 
through until his mortgage advisor notified him that he had Cifas marker registered against 
him. Having seen it was Barclays who registered this, he got in touch with them. He said he 
had never been a customer of Barclays, but had applied for an account in late July 2018, but 
due to a change in circumstances he didnt complete the application process. 
Mr A confirmed with us that the home address used on the application is correct, and that 
the other address is one he has a mortgage on. He said if asked about his addresses, he 
would disclose them both. He told us that the phone number on the application wasnt his  
rather it was one of his grandads old business mobile numbers. When asked if he thought 
the application could have been made by someone else, Mr A explained that he had an ex-
partner who had taken various financial products out in his name after they broke up in 2017 
 leaving him with about £2,000 of debt. 
When Mr A complained to Barclays, it reviewed what had happened. It said that it had acted 
correctly in rejecting the application and referring Mr A to Cifas because they felt he had 
been dishonest in his account application. They said this because: 
The application rejection letter was sent to his address, but Mr A didnt get in touch 
with Barclays to question it at the time;
The undisclosed address is an address Mr A has a mortgage on, so he must be 
aware of it;
It wasnt typical for a fraudster to use the victims genuine address as this could alert 
them to the actions of the fraudster. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he came to this service. Our investigator reviewed what 
happened, and initially recommended that on balance it was most likely Mr A did make the 
application, but that he hadnt seen enough evidence to satisfy the requirements for loading 
Mr A to Cifas. Barclays came back with further evidence  namely around exactly what was 
asked in the application process  and our investigator agreed that the Cifas marker was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Mr A didnt agree, so it has come to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The marker that Barclays asked Cifas to apply is for application fraud. For Barclays to record 
this, it is expected to demonstrate that it has clear, relevant and rigorous evidence to show 
that during the application process one of more material falsehoods were submitted by Mr A, 
for the purpose of obtaining a benefit. They dont have to show that a fraud or financial crime 
has been committed, say, beyond reasonable doubt. But they must demonstrate that there 
are sufficient grounds to believe a financial crime has been attempted or committed  mere 
suspicion or concern is not enough. 
I need to start by considering whether I think it is most likely that Mr A completed the 
application, something which he disputes having done. I think it is most likely that he did 
make the application. I say this because: 
When asked about the application, Mr A said he had not been a Barclays customer 
and had made only one incomplete application in July 2018. When asked about who 
else could have made the May 2018 application, Mr A suggested it could have been 
his ex-partner. He explained that his ex-partner had taken out other financial 
products in his name without his permission, after they broke up. He hasnt provided 
any evidence of these or raised disputes about them, as far as this service is aware. 
So I have considered whether Mr As ex-partner, someone else known to him or an 
unknown third party could have completed the application without Mr A knowing. 
Having done so, I dont think this is the most likely explanation here, I say this 
because it seems unlikely that an unknown third party  or indeed Mr As ex-partner 
or someone else known to him  would use his genuine details such as his postal 
address on the application. This seems like it would provide an unnecessary risk to a 
fraudster trying to make applications on his behalf. Barclays sent the rejection letter 
to his address  and one would imagine a fraudster would be aware of the risk of Mr 
A being tipped off if they had managed to obtain financial products in his name. 
There is also evidence to suggest that the phone number used was linked to Mr A on 
another occasion  when he failed to pay for goods and services at the undisclosed 
address. He explained it was a mobile phone linked to his relatives old business  
but it seems strange that he was able to identify this if this was the case. And it 
further would be unusual for his ex-partner or another third party to use this number. 
So I think it is most likely Mr As number, or one of his numbers. This again makes 
me think it is more likely that Mr A completed the application, for the same reasons 
as using his address does. 
It is also unclear how a third party could have benefitted if the application had been 
successful  as they would not have access to the card or correspondence as it 
would have been s sent to Mr A. 
Whilst I accept that an ex-partner could be responsible for this and other applications, 
and could have the relevant information required to do so, I dont think this is most 
likely what happened. 
Mr A said he started an application for a bank account with Barclays in late July. He 
explained this was because he was starting a job which would sometimes pay him in 
cash, and that there was a branch of Barclays over the road from the workplace, so it 
seemed a convenient place to open an account. He said he didnt complete the 
application in the end, as he only stayed with the employer for two weeks. I have 
seen no evidence of an incomplete application process in July  and I would think it 
would be unusual to partially complete an application process. The disputed 
application was completed  so I dont think it is a case of getting two others confused. 
As Ive found that I think it is most likely that Mr A made the application, I need to now 
consider whether the inaccuracies and inconsistencies amount to material falsehoods 
intended to assist in accessing a financial product; or whether they were more likely to have 
been innocent mistakes. 
Ive first considered what the application asked Mr A to provide in relation to his addresses. 
The application asked for the applicant to provide your addresses for the past 3 years. By 
Mr As own admission, he had lived at both the disclosed and undisclosed address within the 
three years prior to the application being made. I think it is sufficiently clear that he was 
required to provide any addresses he had lived at for the previous three years, and failed to 
do so. I cannot see how this could have been done by mistake. 
Further, the undisclosed address had negative information listed against Mr A  namely a 
Cifas marker using the same phone number and the undisclosed address from 2016. As far 
as this service is aware, this marker wasnt appealed and remains on the Cifas register. 
There is also a default registered against Mr A at the undisclosed address. This related to a 
failure to repay a lease or hire contract. This negative financial information could impact 
whether a bank wishes to do business with someone, which could be a potential motivation 
for keeping the address hidden in the application. I am satisfied that this amounts to a 
material falsehood, rather than an innocent mistake, and so I am satisfied that Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably in registering Mr A with Cifas. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anything with regard to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman