DRN-3944865
The complaint
M, a limited company, has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
C, a claims management company, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M runs an estate and letting agency. It had a business interruption insurance policy with 
Hiscox. The policy ran from 1 December 2019 to 30 November 2020.
In March 2020 M made a claim to Hiscox for its business interruption losses after its 
premises had been closed to members of the public following lockdown restrictions. Hiscox 
declined the claim.
The Financial Conduct Authority pursued a business interruption insurance test case in 
which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different types of 
Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court handed 
down its judgment in January 2021. 
Following the outcome of the test case M contacted Hiscox again about the claim. Hiscox 
said in order to establish cover under the policy M was required to show that its premises 
had been subject to a mandatory closure, which resulted in its business being:
either (i) unable to use a distinct part of its premises or (ii) unable to use its premises 
for a distinct activity or part of its business; and 
interrupted as a result. 
It didnt think estate agents had been required to close by the Government. Hiscox referred 
to the judgment in the test case which stated that a mere impairment or hindrance to 
business premises or business activities would not amount to an inability to use the business 
premises. 
Hiscox said the claim was unlikely to be covered as M could have continued to trade by 
other means such as by telephone or online. It could also have used its premises for 
activities that didnt involve face to face meetings with customers.
M said its staff were unable to meet people, go into properties or conduct viewings so that 
every avenue of work was stopped or closed.
As Hiscox didnt change its decision, M brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think estate agents had been required 
to close as a result of the lockdown restrictions. So she didnt think Hiscox had treated M 
unfairly. In response C said that M had believed it was required to close.
As M didnt agree with our Investigators view, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ms business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
Most of the cover provided by the business interruption section of Ms policy is based on an 
interruption to the business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I havent seen any 
evidence that Covid-19 caused damage to property which led to an interruption of Ms 
business. So, I dont think this section of the policy provides cover in the circumstances of 
Ms claim. 
There is one section of the business interruption section that does not require there to have 
been damage and that might be relevant to a claim like Ms. That is the public authority 
clause in the policy which covered business interruption losses caused by:
your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during the 
period of insurance following:

an occurrence of any notifiable human disease.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that Covid-19 falls within the policy definition of a notifiable 
human disease. There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of Covid-19. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at 
or in the vicinity of the office. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have 
specifically targeted the claimant business alone. As such, this section of the policy would 
provide cover to a business that had been unable to use their insured premises. 
The next question I need to consider is whether M was unable to use its premises. M said it 
believed it was required to close as a result of the Governments actions in response to the 
pandemic. As an estate and letting agent, it doesnt seem M would have been specifically 
required to close by the regulations introduced in March 2020. The Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Business Closure) Regulations of 21 March 2020 and later regulations of a 
similar nature required some businesses, like non-essential retail shops, pubs and dine-in 
restaurants to close. But, significantly, estate agents were not on the list of businesses 
required to close. A large number of other businesses from manufacturers to professional 
services and others were allowed to remain open.
I also agree that the restrictions imposed dont always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. And I 
am not aware of any such instruction that imposed a relevant restriction on M. 
I appreciate these regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have 
had an impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the reasonable excuses included both to travel to work and to move house. I also note that 
estate agents were able to offer online viewings of properties before physical viewings were 
permitted in May 2020. 
Although Ms business would have been interrupted by changes in behaviour required under 
the regulations because the office was used for the secure storage and issuing of keys, 
mortgage advice, discussion of commercially sensitive topics and so on, to my mind the key 
thing is that theres no evidence Ms office was forced to close under the relevant 
restrictions.
Additionally, the policy wording requires there to have been an inability to use the office. The 
term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Ms was considered as 
part of the test case (The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & 
Ors [2021] UKSC 1 and the related judgment in the High Court). 
The High Court discussed whether these businesses (referred to as Category 5 
businesses) had suffered a prevention of access to their premises. Even though the court 
was considering a different type of clause, I think its findings are still relevant. Lord 
Justice Flaux said at paragraph 335:
Category 5 consists of businesses not listed in the 26 March Regulations such as 
manufacturing, accountants, lawyers, recruitment agencies and construction. These 
businesses were not ordered to close and were thus permitted to remain open. We agree 
 that it cannot be said that there was a prevention of access  in relation to any of 
those businesses. It is nothing to the point that clients or customers did not visit the 
offices of their accountant, lawyer or financial adviser because of the restrictions on 
movement imposed by Regulation 6 of the 26 March Regulations and conducted their 
business by Zoom or the like or by telephone. The offices were not required to close and 
at most there was an impediment or hindrance on the use of the premises, nothing which 
amounted to a prevention of access. To the extent that professional firms such as 
solicitors and accountants told their staff to work from home and not come into the office, 
that was due to the government advice to work from home where possible and due to the 
general concerns about the pandemic, not due to any actions or advice of government 
preventing access to the relevant premises.
When the test case went to the Supreme Court, the court said at paragraph 129: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover all 
business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the 
policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136:  an inability of use has to be established; not 
an impairment or hindrance in use. 
The court did also make it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. But I 
dont consider M has shown it was unable to use its office for a discrete part of its business. 
So, whilst I do not doubt that if it had remained open, M would have suffered a disruption to 
the normal operation of its business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use its 
office. And I do not consider M suffered such an inability to use its office. As such, I think 
Hiscox acted fairly in declining Ms claim under this section. 
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. When M first contacted Hiscox with an 
enquiry about cover, it was told straightaway that there was no cover under the policy. After the judgment of the Supreme Court in the test case M lodged the claim again on 1 February 
2021. On 4 February 2021 Hiscox told M the claim probably wasnt covered. There was 
further correspondence between C and Hiscox from May 2021 onwards when Hiscox didnt 
respond as promptly as previously but the stance taken by Hiscox was consistent 
throughout. Bearing in mind the volume of claims that Hiscox had to deal with following the 
conclusion of the test case, Im not persuaded that there was any unreasonable delay on the 
part of Hiscox. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome M was hoping for but having considered things very 
carefully, I dont uphold its complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman