DRN-4051332
The complaint
Mr D complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citi) invested him in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr D met with his relationship manager (RM) and a portfolio counsellor for 
Citi to discuss investing around £300,000. As a result of the discussions that took place at 
the meeting Mr D invested £200,000 in a mutual fund and later a further £80,000 in a 
structured note that was linked to BT and Vodafone. 
The structured note had a maturity date of 15 June 2020 and at maturity its value was 
significantly below the amount Mr D had invested. He complained to Citi about having been 
misled by the RM and being invested in a product that wasnt suitable for his moderate risk 
profile.
Citi didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter (FRL) it said that it was satisfied 
that the suitability and risk rating of the structured note was in line with its risk policy and 
procedure. It said it was also satisfied that Mr D was made aware of how the product 
worked. 
Mr D then referred his complaint to our service and it was considered by one of our 
investigators who thought it should be upheld. In short, she said that Citi had a responsibility 
to ensure that any recommendation it made was suitable for Mr D and that the significant 
risks of the structured note he invested in were out of alignment with the level of risk he was 
willing to take. 
Citi didnt agree with the investigator and the matter was referred to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint, the findings from which are set out below.
I think it is important to set out what Citis obligations were when it came to Mr Ds 
investment in the structured note. It was providing an advisory service and as such the 
structured note had to be a suitable investment for Mr D. The rules that Citi had to comply 
with are set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the Handbook of the 
regulator, the FCA. 
The relevant rules in March 2017 included COBS 9.2.1R, which requires that firms obtain the 
necessary information about a clients; knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of designated investment or service; their financial situation; 
their financial objectives.  
COBS 9.2.2R then states that firms must obtain from the client such information as is 
necessary for the firm to understand the essential facts about the client and have a 
reasonable basis for believing that; the transaction to be entered into meets the clients 
investment objectives; he can financially bear the risks; is such that he has the necessary 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks.
And COBS 9.2.6R states that if a firm doesnt obtain the necessary information, it must not 
make a personal recommendation to the client or make a decision to trade.
I have considered what happened with the above rules in mind. The first communication I 
have seen between the parties is an email from the RM to Mr D dated 8 March 2017. I have 
not seen what prompted the email but have assumed that Mr D had indicated to the RM that 
he wanted to invest as the RM identifies three types of investment products. 
He refers first to bonds and shares but says that they lack diversification and can be risky 
and that he would avoid shares. He then refers to tracker and mutual funds and says they 
are okay although warns of potential tax consequences. Lastly, he refers  to structured 
notes which he says are the products he likes most at that time.
I note that Citi referred to this email in its FRL as being factually accurate but has not 
otherwise addressed the content of the email. I am mindful that this was sent to Mr D before 
Citi met with him to obtain relevant details from him about his financial position and 
investment knowledge and experience. Despite this the email uses persuasive language that 
directs Mr D towards structured notes and which more likely than not influenced him as to 
what he should invest in.
In other words, I think what the RM said in the email set the stage for the subsequent 
meeting that took place on 23 March 2017 and as such it is no surprise that the system 
notes that Citi has provided of the meeting record:
Profiling meeting 23/3/2017  met the client with (name of colleague) explained our 
proposition. Client wants to invest, not interested in protection as he has sufficient cash and 
no dependents. Is interested in SN and Mutual Fund portfolios and has some knowledge of 
investments and markets.
The reference to Mr Ds interest in SN is obviously a reference to structured notes. 
Mr D has said that he didnt know what structured notes were prior to investing through Citi 
and I accept what he has said. His interest in structured notes I think must be considered in 
context  that being the RM referring to them as his favourite product in his email of 8 March 
2017. Put another way, I think Mr Ds interest in structured notes was the result of the RMs 
email of 8 March 2017 and wasnt something that he had already decided he wanted to 
invest in. 
The profiling report that was completed at the meeting was sent to Mr D by the RM on 3 April 
2017. In the letter the RM said that the report details Mr Ds appetite for risks and the 
investment products he was familiar with.
The profiling report shows Mr D has an income of £60,000 and cash/short term savings of 
£800,000 with real estate of £2.8 million. In terms of questions about risk appetite it shows 
Mr D wanted income and growth and was a moderate risk investor, described as:
I hope to experience no more than moderate portfolio losses over a rolling one year period 
in attempting to enhance longer-term performance and I am generally willing to buy 
investments that are priced frequently and have a high certainty of being able to sell quickly 
(less than a week) in stable markets although I may at times buy individual investments that 
entail greater risk and are less liquid.
The profiling report then identifies Mr Ds knowledge and experience which is described as:
Limited  I have basic knowledge of investment products outside of traditional bank savings 
accounts or time deposits. There are then two lists of investment products, the first being identified as Tier 1 products, 
described as:
A financial instrument which can be understood by a person with basic knowledge of 
financial and investing principles, without requiring specialist product training or experience.
For each of the products then listed it was indicated that Mr D had no experience but did 
have knowledge - with the source in each case being stated to be self-education. 
The second list of investments are referred to as Tier 2 investments which are described 
as:
Any financial instrument that does not conform to the definition of a Tier 1 product is 
classified as a Tier 2 product.
Put another way, it is products that cannot be understood by a person with basic knowledge 
of financial and investing principles and for which specialist product training or experience is 
necessary  as I think other documents that Citi provided , which I refer to below, also make 
clear. 
The profiling report shows only one product under Tier 2 that Mr D supposedly had 
knowledge of  namely structured notes. As with all the Tier 1 products this knowledge was 
stated to be by way of self-education and not by way of experience.
In short, the profiling report shows that Mr D was a novice investor whose only knowledge of 
investments had come from self-education. I have seen nothing to suggest that Citi made 
any attempt to seek further information so it could understand the extent Mr Ds knowledge 
obtained through his self-education. 
I am mindful that COBS 9.2.3R states that the information a firm should obtain includes 
information on the nature, volume, frequency of the clients transactions in designated 
investments. In other words, the expectation where a client does indicate they have 
experience in a product is that detailed information is obtained so the firm can assess the 
extent of the clients knowledge and experience.
I think the need to obtain detailed information where a client has no experience is arguably 
even greater. The only information Citi had about Mr Ds knowledge was that he had 
obtained this through self-education. This statement of itself told Citi nothing about Mr Ds 
knowledge and I think it is obvious it needed further information from him to assess suitability 
of the structured note. 
However, I have seen no evidence that Citi made further enquiries of Mr D as to what his 
self-education amounted it had no way to know if the structured note was suitable for him. 
Despite this the profiling report goes on to state that based on his knowledge and experience 
Mr D is eligible to invest in the products listed  which list simply mirrors the Tier 1 and Tier 2 
products that have already been ticked.
I note that Citi has referred to Mr D stating that he informed the RM at some point that he 
invested in equities and did better than Citi. I am not sure what the relevance of this is given 
the issue I am considering is the recommendation to invest in the structured note, not 
equities.
However, there is nothing to show Mr D invested in equities before his investment through 
Citi in any event. The information in the profile report shows otherwise and there is no 
reason to think Mr D wouldnt have referred to having such experience at the time this was completed if he had previously invested in equities. And, if he invested in equities at some 
later point this provides no evidence that supports Citi recommending the structured note in 
May 2017. 
Having considered the information available to Citi I am not satisfied that it had a reasonable 
basis for believing Mr D had the knowledge and experience to understand the risks of the 
structured note. As such it shouldnt have proceeded with recommending that he invest in 
this.
I have considered what might have happened if Citi had sought further information from Mr D 
and whether this could have reasonably led it to conclude the structured note was suitable 
for him. Having done so, I am not satisfied it could. The structured note subscription 
agreement dated 15 May 2017 includes the following statement:
The note is not suitable for everyone and is designed for clients who are knowledgeable 
and experienced in the financial services market and in notes of this nature.
Mr D wasnt knowledgeable or experienced in the financial services market or in structured 
notes so by the above definition the structured note wasnt suitable.
Furthermore, in the document titled Structured Note Ideas produced by Citi specifically in 
relation to the structured note linked to BT and Vodafone, the following statement is made:
Investing in structured products is intended only for experienced and sophisticated investors 
who are willing and able to bear the high economic risks of such an investment.
Citi was fully aware that Mr D was not experienced and was the opposite of a sophisticated 
investor. Even if it had obtained further information from him about his knowledge through 
self -education this wouldnt have changed this in my view. Based on its own documents it 
should have been obvious to Citi that the structured note wasnt suitable for Mr D regardless 
of what he had learnt through self-education. 
I am also not satisfied Citi provided information to Mr D that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading as it was required to under Principle 7 of the FCAs Principles and COBS 4.2.1R.  
Firstly, I am not satisfied that the information in the email of 8 March 2017 was clear, fair, 
and not misleading. Citi has referred to it being factually accurate, but the RM specifically 
stated that shares lacked diversification and that they can be risky whilst talking positively 
about structured notes without making any reference to risk. I think the wording of the email 
was such that it wrongly gave the impression that structured notes werent risky like share 
could be.
Secondly, I have some concerns over the use of the word moderate to describe both the 
product risk and Mr Ds risk appetite. I accept these are two different things that are 
separately defined. I have already set out the definition for a moderate risk investor as set 
out in the profiling report. A moderate product risk is described in the Structured Note Ideas 
document I have referred to above as:
Risk of moderate to significant loss associated with fairly volatile markets, mitigated by a 
reasonably high certainty of being able to obtain a price at short notice which means the 
product can be sold quickly under normal market conditions.
I have noted the reference to a risk of significant loss, but I think with a novice investor such 
as Mr D there was real potential for misunderstanding about what moderate meant when it 
came to the product risk  given the description already provided to him for what moderate risk meant in terms of his risk profile.
It also seems to me that Mr D did in fact misunderstand what moderate meant when it came 
to the product risk for the structured note, as in his complaint to Citi he refers to wanting a 
moderate risk investment because this was his profile and attitude and how Citi had 
classified him.
Mr D made several points about Citi not advising him to come out of the structured note 
before maturity on the basis that it was dropping in value for some time. I dont think there is 
any need for me to make any detailed findings on this given my findings above. However, if I 
had found that the structured note was suitable for Mr D I dont think advising him to remain 
in it to maturity would have necessarily been unsuitable advice, given the terms of the 
structured note.
I awarded appropriate redress and gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my 
provisional decision and providing any further information they wanted me to consider before 
making my final decision.
Mr D responded providing his calculations for the amount payable based on the redress 
methodology set out in my provisional decision. Citi didnt agree with my provisional decision 
and in summary, made the following points:
The email of 8 March 2017 (from the RM) was reply to a request on the type of 
investments available on its platform and contained no specific product details.
Following the email numerous telephone calls, meetings and emails were exchanged 
about the specific products where the exact terms and the risks involved were 
explained to the client and with him acknowledging he understood.
It would be unfair to ignore all subsequent conversations and instead suggest that 
the email of 8 March 2017 persuaded Mr D to falsely acknowledge he had knowledge 
of structured notes and two months later invest in the product.
In any event the suggestion he didnt have knowledge isnt correct given he 
subsequently acknowledged he had knowledge of equities and bonds.
Mr D selected a range of products whilst not selecting others which demonstrates he 
thought independently and his answers reflected his true understanding of various 
products.
It subsequently transpired that Mr D at a minimum had experience of managing his 
own equity investment portfolio during the same period as he invested with Citi as 
confirmed for example in his email of 12 February 2020.
Whilst this information wasnt disclosed to Citi prior to investment in the structured 
note it does show Mr D wasnt a novice investor as suggested by the ombudsman. 
This confirms the accuracy of the notes left by the RM on its system after the profiling 
meeting during which he ascertained Mr D had a general knowledge of investments 
and markets despite not disclosing comprehensive information about his experience.
At the meeting two of its regulated employees formed a reasonable basis for 
believing Mr D had sufficient knowledge in structured notes.
Being self-educated is a valid answer to the question about knowledge and experience which was then substantiated by wider conversations about financial 
markets, an example being the notes of the meeting that took place on 19 May 2017.
During the profiling meeting additional information about Mr Ds circumstances, 
investment objective and an assessment of his ability and willingness to take risk was 
collated.
In this case Mr D was very interested to invest in structured notes and repeatedly 
asked the RM to send him monthly ideas which is contrary to how he described the 
interactions.
Mr D asked to invest £80K in two structured notes in an email dated 30 March 2017 
but then opted to invest £30K in a structured note that was linked to Credit Suisse 
and UBS as he believed it could be quite risky. He couldnt invest at the time but this 
demonstrates his understanding of different types of equity and his willingness to 
take risk.
The note of the meeting in May 2017 when the structured note was discussed shows 
it was Mr D who opted to invest £80k when the RM suggested only £50K be 
invested.
Mr D signed the risk profiling form and his risk profile and knowledge and experience 
was later confirmed to him when he invested in the mutual fund in April 2017 and 
again in May 2017 when he invested in the structured notes.
Citi also provided some further documents and notes not previously provided. I asked Citi to 
clarify some of the statements it had made in its response about Mr D investing in equities. It 
responded and said that Mr Ds email to it of 12 February 2020 corroborates its submission 
that that Mr D was an active investor in equities at the same time as he invested in the 
structured note. 
Citi also referred to what it called the tipsheet (brochure) for the structured note, which was 
sent to Mr D on 17 May 2017 along with the subscription agreement and Citis Structured 
Notes Ideas. 
Citi said the brochure provided a summary of the product features and highlighted prominent 
risks as well as the objective and risk rating and that Mr D, following receipt of the 
documents sent on 17 May 2017, confirmed, before subscription, that he understood the 
risks. It also said that he invested in the mutual fund investment over the same time, with the 
structured note forming a smaller portion of the investments on his investment account.
I asked Mr D to confirm any other investments he had up to 2020 and he confirmed he 
invested in Berkshire Hathaway in 2018 and this is what he referenced in his email of 12 
February 2020. He also referred to having an insurance policy which he paid 2,000 EUR into 
each year as from 2010 and what he referred to as a pension retirement policy he has paid 
2,500 EUR into each year from 2008, with the underlying assets being gilts and bonds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Citi and Mr D have said in response to my provisional 
findings and the additional documentation that Citi has provided, I have seen no persuasive 
evidence that makes me think the findings set out in my provisional decision were wrong. As such I stand by those findings, which form part of the findings in this final decision. 
Citi has referred to important communications between it and Mr D which it says have not 
previously been provided which it says help to provide an understanding of its procedures for 
assessing the suitability of investments for each client. However, having considered all the 
information Citi (and Mr D) have provided in this complaint, I am not satisfied Citi did 
properly assess suitability as it should have done and I am not satisfied the structured note 
was suitable for Mr D. 
Citi has provided no reasonable explanation as to why it considered the structured note was 
a suitable investment for Mr D given that in the document it drafted and sent to Mr D on 17 
May 2017 headed Structured Note Ideas it explicitly stated that investment in structured 
products is intended only for experienced and sophisticated investors. On the evidence 
provided Mr D quite obviously was neither experienced nor sophisticated at the time and Citi 
has not suggested that he was. Given that Citis own document makes clear the structured 
note wasnt suitable for an investor such as Mr D arguably I dont need to address the points 
made by Citi, but I will briefly comment on these.
Citi has said that the response from the RM of 8 March 2017 to Mr Ds query about the 
investments available on Citis platform contained no specific investment product details. 
This is not the key issue in this complaint, as regardless of that email I dont think the 
structured note was suitable for Mr D and he shouldnt have been invested in it. 
In any event, whilst the email may not have contained specific product details in relation to 
structured notes, it also didnt simply provide information Mr D had asked for about the 
products available. In my view the wording was such as to suggest that structured notes 
were a better option to other products. I think what the RM said was likely to be persuasive 
and more likely than not did influence Mr D when it came to him investing in the structured 
note.
At the time of the email Citi hadnt obtained any information about Mr D that could 
reasonably have led it to conclude structured note were a suitable type of investment for 
him, such that it was reasonable for it to direct Mr D towards that type of investment  as I 
think the RM did by what he said in his email. 
 I dont think the email of the 8 March 2017 was the only thing that led to Mr D investing in 
the structured note, although I think it dictated to some extent the discussion that took place 
at the subsequent meeting with the RM. I have been provided with a limited record of that 
discussion but given the RM had already made clear his enthusiasm for structured notes in 
the email it seems likely he would have spoken positively about them. I think this helps 
explain the record of the meeting shows Mr D was interested in these.
Citi has referred to numerous telephone calls, meetings and emails being subsequently 
exchanged about specific products after the email of 8 March 2017 where it says the exact 
terms and the risk involved were explained to Mr D with him acknowledging that he 
understood. 
It has said it would be unfair to ignore these subsequent communications and to suggest that 
it was specifically the email of 8 March 2017 that persuaded Mr D to falsely acknowledge he 
had knowledge of structured notes and invest in the product two months later. Firstly, I would 
point out I have not said Mr D falsely claimed knowledge in structured notes, rather I think 
any knowledge he had through self-education was likely to be limited and something he 
only looked into after the email of 8 March 2017.
Secondly, I have not ignored any information that has been provided to me. The communications that took place between 8 March 2017 and Mr D investing in the structure 
note amounted to a few emails and telephone calls as well as the meetings in March and 
May 2017. I considered this evidence before making my provisional decision and took them 
into account when making my findings. They do not provide any persuasive evidence as to 
the suitability of the structured note.
Citi has said that being self-educated is a valid answer to the question about knowledge and 
understanding of investments. However, as I said in my provisional decision, a client stating 
they are self-educated is in my view almost meaningless, without further information. 
Where a client has indicated they have no previous experience and the only knowledge they 
have is through self-education I think it is important for a firm to make enquiries to 
understand what is meant by this  what this amounted to. I cant see how Citi could have 
properly assessed Mr Ds understanding without knowing what he had done to self-educate 
himself. 
I dont think that discussing the risks with Mr D and providing documents where the risks 
were set out and get him to acknowledge he understood the risks, made up for this. I am not 
satisfied that this provides any persuasive evidence of Mr Ds actual understanding or 
supports Citis case that the structured note was suitable.
In the circumstances I am not satisfied that Mr D stating he had knowledge of certain 
products through self-education or the subsequent discussions provided the information 
necessary for Citi to have a reasonable basis for believing he had the necessary experience 
and knowledge to understand the risks of the structured note.
I note Citis suggestion that because Mr D invested in equities the same time as he was 
invested in the structured note he wasnt a novice investor, as I said he was. It is referring to 
what Mr D said in his email of 12 February 2020 about investing in Berkshire Hathaway and 
getting a return of 28%.
As I have set out in the background above, Mr D has said he invested in Berkshire 
Hathaway in 2018. This subsequent investment by him obviously isnt evidence he wasnt a 
novice investor at the time the RM met with him in March 2017, or when he invested in the 
structured note in May 2017. 
Mr D has referred to paying relatively small annual sums into an insurance policy and 
pension policy invested in gilts and bonds. These are unlikely to have involved him making 
any decisions so far as investments were concerned. So, I still think it is appropriate to 
consider him a novice investor - or if not a novice then someone with minimal experience. 
These policies certainly didnt give him any knowledge or experience relevant to the 
structured note in my view.  
I have considered the notes that Citi has provided of subsequent discussions between it and 
Mr D when the structured note investment dropped significantly in value. I am not satisfied 
that these provide persuasive evidence that he had a real understanding of the risks of the 
structured note. 
Having considered everything the parties have said and the information provided I remain of 
the view that the structured note wasnt suitable for Mr D and he shouldnt have been 
invested in it.
Mr D has provided some detailed calculations for redress which I have noted but have not 
referred to. It is for Citi to carry out the necessary calculations and pay the redress based on 
the methodology I have set out.What should Citi do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Citi must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Citi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Structured 
Note No longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentSale of the BT 
shares 8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount Mr D received at the end date from sale of the BT shares he 
received on maturity of the structured note.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Citi 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
I have not required Citi to repay the advice fee which was part of the redress awarded by the 
investigator. This is because the redress I have set out above is based on Mr D investing in 
any event. As such it is more likely than not an advice fee would have been incurred if Citi 
had advised him differently.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly, Citi must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Citi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Structured 
Note No longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentSale of the BT 
shares 8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount Mr D received at the end date from sale of the BT shares he 
received on maturity of the structured note.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Citi 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
I have not required Citi to repay the advice fee which was part of the redress awarded by the 
investigator. This is because the redress I have set out above is based on Mr D investing in 
any event. As such it is more likely than not an advice fee would have been incurred if Citi 
had advised him differently.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained. Citibank UK Limited should pay Mr 
D the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman