DRN-3845981
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with how Lloyds Bank Plc handled their re-mortgage and its 
policies around early repayment charges (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had an existing mortgage with Lloyds which included a fixed interest rate until 
31 July 2022. 
They were offered the option to arrange a product transfer up to three months before the end 
of their fixed interest rate period, effective once this period expired.
Mr and Mrs C (in the context of rising interest rates) wanted to repay a lumpsum of £100,000 
towards their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage terms allowed for overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding 
mortgage balance a year, anything over this would incur an ERC. And £100,000 was more 
than 10% of Mr and Mrs Cs remaining balance.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs C to let their mortgage move onto their variable rate at the end of 
their fixed interest rate period for one month, during which time they could make this 
lumpsum payment without incurring an ERC. They said Mr and Mrs C could then arrange a 
new product with a fixed interest rate period for September 2022.  
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that they couldnt make their intended lumpsum payment and 
transfer to another fixed interest rate product straight away. They say this delay in arranging 
a new fixed interest rate means theyve been financially disadvantaged as interest rates had 
been increasing.
When Mr and Mrs C complained to Lloyds, it said it couldnt allow them to secure a product 
transfer rate prior to making an overpayment on their mortgage (which is above the 10% 
allowance) without them incurring an ERC. It said Mr and Mrs C were informed by the 
mortgage adviser that they could look to re-mortgage elsewhere, but this is not an option 
they wanted to take.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy that they were being disadvantaged because they wanted 
to make a lumpsum payment. They also said they received poor customer service when they 
raised their complaint and that Lloyds hadnt made the attempts to contact them that it had 
claimed it did.
When Mr and Mrs C complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said it wasnt our role to change a business policies and that the way Mr and Mrs Cs 
product was set up would have meant that paying the lumpsum they wanted to during a fixed 
interest rate period wouldve meant incurring an ERC. And that Lloyds was correct in 
explaining the way to avoid this cost was to move onto its variable rate for one month. They 
also said Lloyds did discuss the complaint with Mr and Mrs C and they didnt think any 
compensation was appropriate.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, they said Lloyds had already made its decision before they spoke 
and that it was punitive for Lloyds to force them onto a higher rate in order for them to be 
able to make a lump sum repayment. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
An ERC was applicable to Mr and Mrs Cs existing fixed interest rate period prior to 
31 July 2022. This was set out clearly on Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage illustrations and 
so it isnt a hidden cost. Lloyds was correct in explaining that if Mr and Mrs C wanted 
to make a repayment of over 10% of their outstanding balance before 31 July 2022 
they would incur this cost.
Lloyds has confirmed an ERC would have been applicable to any new fixed interest 
rate period they arranged for Mr and Mrs C, and so if they knew they wanted to make 
a lumpsum repayment of over 10% of their outstanding balance, they would be better 
off doing so before they began a new fixed interest rate period.
Mr and Mrs C were given the option of re-mortgaging elsewhere when their fixed 
interest rate period ended, which would have enabled them to move onto a new 
product straight away, but they chose not to do this.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs C are being penalised or discriminated against. They 
arent being treated differently than any other customer wanting to make an 
overpayment of more than 10% of their outstanding balance. ERCs arent generally 
punitive (and shouldnt be), they are part of how lenders cover their costs and risks 
associated with lending.
Mr and Mrs C have raised customer service issues but say they dont want 
compensation. Lloyds notes show their staff did attempt to call Mr and Mrs C and I 
think its unlikely that they would have falsified these records, so I dont think it needs 
to do anything further in relation to this.
Mr and Mrs C say they want us to change Lloyds policies in relation to this matter. 
Our service isnt a regulator, we consider whether customers have been treated fairly 
in the individual circumstances of their complaint. And for the reasons explained I 
think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs C fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman