DRN-4164156
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about Leek United Building Society, referred to as the business. 
Theyre unhappy that it delayed the opening of their five-year, fixed rate, fixed term savings 
bond, by six calendar days.   
What happened
In early February 2023, the business upheld the complaint. In short, it said it took longer to 
process the request than it should have, but it was a very busy time for opening savings 
accounts. It confirmed that the investment would still run for the five years until January 
2028, so Mr and Mrs E would still earn the same interest over the (full) term of the 
investment. In addition to apologising, the business also offered Mr and Mrs E £30 
compensation (made payable to both) as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs E rejected the offer  they maintain that they lost out financially. They say they 
did everything properly, but the business still failed to invest their money (a cheque for 
£120,000) when it said it would.  
Unhappy with the resolution, in March 2023 Mr and Mrs E referred the complaint to our 
service. Following intervention from one our investigators, in April 2023 the business offered 
them £81.27 compensation  to mark the interest they would otherwise have received in 
February 2023  as full and final settlement of the dispute. But Mr and Mrs E disagreed with 
the latest offer, and counter-proposed their own offer, which included an additional £50 
compensation and a guarantee in terms of their fixed rate.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
The businesss offer to pay £81.27 for the error/delays is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs E say, she cant justify asking the business for an additional 
£50 compensation. 
Given our guidance (below) the latest offer is broadly fair and reasonable:
oan apology or small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly compensate 
a one-off incident or occurrence  such as a small administrative error or 
short delayUsing financial services wont always be hassle free and we 
wouldnt award for things that arent more serious than the normal nuisance of 
everyday life.
In the circumstances Mr and Mrs E havent suffered a financial loss. Over the lifetime 
of the investment, theyre likely to receive the same interest payment they wouldve 
received had the investment started on 19 January 2023. In other words, theyll just 
receive the same payment, but six days later. 
Given the delayed start date, the only impact/difference is that they received less 
interest on 1 February 2023, the date on which the first payment of interest was due. 
In the circumstances, theyd have to wait until the end of the term of their investment 
to receive the balance of this amount which is (arguably) £81.27.
The business offered to pay the sum now, in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. So, they wont have to wait till the end of the investment to 
receive/use this amount, which is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Although Mr and Mrs E want an additional £50 for bringing the complaint to our 
service, thats not how compensation is paid, and a total award of £131.25 is unlikely 
to reflect the actual inconvenience caused. In other words, its too much. 
In any case, our service is free, and doesnt require compensation payment just 
because a complainant has had to refer the complaint to our service. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In short, they said:
The business failed to open the investment on receipt of their application for six days, 
before any action was taken. This was contrary to their terms and conditions. 
When they complained, the business manipulated the contract terms, and told them 
that there was no loss  however, they couldnt recoup the loss until the end of the 
investment in January 2028. 
In the circumstances they cant accept that theres compensation on top of the lost 
interest (at £81.27) because it isnt. There seems to be some illusion that theyre 
receiving more money than theyre due. 
Our service suggested that it would support an addition payment of £50 but hasnt. 
Theyre therefore requesting an additional £30 goodwill payment plus £20 for the 
considerable stress, inconvenient and anxiety suffered. 
The £81.27 is due under the contract at 4.12% on £120,000. Its not payment for 
stress and anxiety. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
I do so on the basis that the business offered Mr and Mrs E a payment of £81.27, which the 
investigator thinks is fair, and the business should pay if they agree. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I dont agree 
that £30 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair. However, I do think the revised 
offer is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr and Mrs E have about this matter. They have provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not 
in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence. Its not what Im required to 
do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs E and the business, and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
I uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
I note that the business has recently offered an amount of compensation in the sum 
of £81.27, after discussing matters with the investigator, in respect of the interest 
payment Mr and Mrs E were likely to receive in February 2023 (but didnt) due to the 
delay in starting their investment. 
It seems that this payment is a one off, and on top of/separate to whatever interest 
Mr and Mrs E are likely to receive in due course from their five-year investment. 
I note that the business hasnt attached any conditions to this payment and isnt 
asking for it to be offset or paid back at the end of the investment, so Mr and Mrs E 
dont need to worry about that. If it did, I might consider a small payment for distress 
and inconvenience appropriate, but thats not what Im dealing with here.   
Despite what Mr and Mrs E say, Im not persuaded that theyve suffered a financial 
loss  I cant agree that this is payment for a (purported) loss theyve suffered, 
because theyre still due the full interest payments from their investment.  
In other words, the compensation payment is akin to a compensation payment for 
distress and inconvenience which I think the business shouldve made clear from the 
outset when it made the latest offer. 
Im satisfied that the revised offer is equivalent to £40 each which I think is broadly 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the six-day delay. I note its also £50 
more than what the business initially offered.    
In the circumstances, I dont think Mr and Mrs E are entitled to any further 
compensation, and Im not persuaded that the business has done anything wrong by 
not offering an additional £50 compensation.  
I agree with the investigator that given our guidance  namely in relation to a one-off 
small error with no financial loss  the latest revised offer is fair and reasonable. 
Just because Mr and Mrs E have had to refer their complaint to our service, doesnt 
mean that theyre entitled to greater compensation. As our investigator mentioned 
our service is free of charge for consumers.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator in terms of the latest offer, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to 
hear. 
I note Mr and Mrs E believes theyre due more compensation, but I dont agree. Whilst I 
appreciate their deep frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything, other than to pay them £81.27 it recently offered. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what they say, Im unable to 
give Mr and Mrs E what they want.  
Putting things right
Leek United Building Society must pay Mr and Mrs E £81.27 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  
Leek United Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs E compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman