DRN-3299585
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc restricted his access to online banking 
when they implemented Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) regulations, because their 
system for completing SCA is "mobile-dependant", and he doesnt have reliable mobile 
phone reception.
What happened
Mr B wanted to make sure he was opted in to receive paper statements having received 
notification from NatWest that he was going to be opted out of this service (or moved to a 
default position of online statements) for a second time. He tried to log in to online banking in 
October 2019 and November 2019 to, amongst other things, set or re-set his preference for 
paper statements, but he found he only had restricted access to NatWests online banking 
service.
The reason for this was that NatWest had recently, at that time, implemented Strong 
Customer Authentication (SCA) in response to an EU regulation commonly referred to as the 
second payment services directive or PSD2.
To regain full access to the online banking service Mr B needed to complete two-factor 
authentication by either receiving a one-time passcode (OTP) to his mobile phone or 
generating a one-time passcode with a card reader. But this proved problematic for Mr B. 
Firstly, because he didnt have a mobile phone number registered on his account (Mr B has 
explained that although he possesses a mobile phone for occasional use, he lives in an area 
of unreliable mobile phone connectivity and didnt wish to rely on it for banking activity). And 
secondly, because NatWest didnt send him a card reader (despite the website repeatedly 
telling him one had been ordered). Mr B was therefore left without full online banking access, 
and without being able to opt in for paper statements as he wanted.
After some attempts to resolve the situation with both his online banking access and 
statements through visits to branch, Mr B says he called NatWest on 20 December 2019 to 
complain. Hes told us he spoke with a member of staff who advised him there was nothing 
they could do; the upshot was he was told to await delivery of the card reader.
Mr B still didnt receive a card reader and heard nothing further from NatWest about it.
In March 2020 Mr B raised his complaint with this service but was advised that it would take 
us longer than usual to get back to him due to the pandemic. When no progress had been 
made by March 2021, he says his patience wore out and he regained access to online 
banking via a convoluted process of chat box help and rather reluctantly giving [his] mobile 
number. Only then was he able to access online banking, re-set his preferences and 
resume receiving paper statements.
In May 2021 Mr Bs complaint was forwarded to NatWest for a response by one of our 
investigators. NatWest have said that theyve not been able to find any evidence that Mr B 
raised a complaint with them before that date.
NatWests investigation of Mr Bs complaint uncovered that Mr Bs personal account and 
online banking profile were linked to a closed business account, and that this was preventing 
the card reader from being sent to him. NatWests technical support team confirmed that 
each time hed requested a card reader via the website, the system had rejected it. NatWest 
apologised that the problem was not identified sooner, explained what needed to be done to 
resolve it and arranged for a card reader to be sent. Mr B has confirmed that he finally 
received a card reader in June 2021.
Acknowledging that the situation had caused Mr B some inconvenience and gone on for 
longer than it should have NatWest paid Mr B £125 compensation.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this outcome. He said he wanted our service to look into his 
complaint because the system should have told him his card reader requests were being 
rejected and why, and NatWests implementation of SCA required users to have a mobile 
phone. He said:
The online system does not provide a way of logging in using a card reader but 
insists on sending a one-time pass code to a mobile phone. Further, the system 
requires a mobile phone to enable a card reader in the first place  It seems obvious 
to me that NatWest is not complying with SCA guidance 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think NatWest needed to do more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. She 
said that the SCA measures were a regulatory obligation designed to keep customers safe 
and secure, and that NatWest provided the option to use a card reader for customers that 
dont have mobile phones to complete SCA, but that hadnt been successful in Mr Bs case 
for the reasons already identified. She said NatWest had recognised their failings in this and 
apologised, and that the £125 theyd already paid Mr B was fair.
Responses to the view
Mr B didnt agree. He said despite enabling the card reader in June 2021 he still needs a 
mobile phone to operate his account; hed even needed to receive an OTP to his mobile 
phone to enable the card reader in the first place. He wants to complete two-factor 
authentication or SCA using a method that doesnt rely on him having a mobile phone.
He explained that he doesnt think NatWest have implemented SCA as they should have 
and highlighted the Financial Conduct Authority's guidance on the implementation of SCA 
which says:
"We expect firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all 
groups of consumers and we encourage firms to consider the impact of strong 
customer authentication solutions on different groups of customers, in particular 
those with protected characteristics, as part of the design process. It may be 
necessary for a [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication 
in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all customers will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas 
without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly 
authenticate customers in these situations." (my emphasis)
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My Provisional DecisionI issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2022 because I wanted to provide a bit more 
detail than the investigator had and give both parties a further opportunity to comment, but 
before doing so I asked both parties for some further information.
To begin with I let NatWest know that Mr B wants to complete two-factor authentication or 
SCA using a method that does not rely on him having a mobile phone (i.e. he wants to use 
the card reader for SCA). I asked NatWest whether access to their online banking and 
payment services is, in fact, dependant on mobile device/phone ownership.
NatWest confirmed that if a customer needs to receive an OTP for online banking login but 
they have poor mobile signal or no mobile number they can use the card reader with their 
debit card (or online banking card if they dont have a debit card).
They went on to explain that if a customer needs to authenticate an online payment 
(eCommerce/online shopping) but doesnt have a mobile number or has poor mobile signal 
they can still receive OTPs to their landline. And where thats not possible, they will be able 
to receive an email OTP to a valid email address registered with the bank.
NatWest also confirmed that if Mr B had not had a mobile phone number when he received 
his card reader, alternatives would have been offered to enable it; and once enabled the 
card reader can be used for SCA.
I also asked Mr B if he was still completing two factor authentication with his mobile phone 
and, if so, whether hed tried to remove his mobile phone number from his account. Mr B 
said hed been unable to log in to online banking using the card reader because the 
interface does not present this option. He hadnt used the card reader since enabling it. He 
said hed explored the possibility of removing his mobile phone number from his NatWest 
account, but it wouldnt allow him to. Mr B was still of the view that NatWests services are 
limited for customers without mobile devices.
I began my provisional decision by setting out the considerations I thought relevant. I wrote:
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair 
and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So, Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations to 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Reg. 100, which came into force on 
14 September 2019, says that a payment service provider (PSP) must apply strong 
customer authentication where a payment service user accesses its payment 
account online, initiates an electronic payment transaction; or carries out any action 
through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses. 
SCA is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are 
independent, in that the breach of one element does not compromise the 
reliability of any other element, and designed in such a way as to protect the 
confidentiality of the authentication data, with the elements falling into two or 
more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
Another relevant consideration is the SCA implementation guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its document Payment Service and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach (June 2019). Ive quoted Mr Bs own reference to this 
document above, so I wont repeat it here.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, I dont currently 
think NatWest need to do more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
It is of course regrettable that when NatWest implemented SCA things didnt go more 
smoothly and they didnt provide Mr B with a card reader at the first time of asking, in 
or around October 2019. Had that happened, Mr B would have been spared the 
inconvenience of having limited access to the online banking service, and hed have 
been able to set his statement preferences as he wished.
As it was, there was a technical problem which prevented a card reader being sent to 
him successfully; a technical reason which NatWest have told me would not have 
been obvious to frontline staff. I agree its unfortunate that the system didnt make the 
problem obvious to either frontline staff or Mr B. If either had been furnished with the 
knowledge that his card reader requests were being rejected and the reason, thered 
have been an earlier chance to resolve things.
NatWest have told me that they have no record of receiving a complaint about this 
from Mr B until May 2021. So, it wasnt until then that they investigated, involved their 
technical support team and isolated the problem so that it could be resolved. In my 
view this investigation ought to have happened much earlier because, despite the 
lack of records on NatWests part, I have no doubt that Mr B was expressing his 
dissatisfaction with the situation at branch level in December 2019 and, as the root 
cause of the problem wasnt obvious, I think branch staff should have escalated his 
concerns for investigation then. However, I think NatWest have already recognised 
that the situation went unresolved for too long and thats why theyve paid Mr B £125 
compensation.
Mr B remains unhappy with that, but I dont think what NatWest have done to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint is unfair. Whilst I recognise that Mr B lived with limited online 
banking access from October 2019 to around March 2021 (when he reluctantly 
added his mobile phone number to his account), Im mindful that throughout that time 
he was still able to use his debit card, able to use telephone banking and able to 
receive mini statements through the ATM network. He could also have mitigated the 
situation with his online banking access by choosing to add his mobile phone number 
before he did in March 2021. Thats not to say I dont understand why Mr B was 
reluctant to add his mobile phone number; I do. And I agree that he shouldnt have 
had to. But because he did have this option available to him, I dont think NatWests 
failure to send him a card reader prevented him from accessing online banking for 
this period.
I also note that Mr B doesnt appear to have tried to escalate his concerns with 
NatWest beyond the branch after December 2019. As Ive said, I think branch staff should have done that and, had they done so, the situation could have been resolved 
much earlier. But when Mr B received no further contact from NatWest and continued 
not to receive a card reader, I think he could have taken further steps  for example, 
NatWests website does have an online form for complaints. I do know that Mr B 
approached this service during that time and was advised that wed likely take a 
while to get back to him due to the pandemic, but I dont think that means he couldnt 
have continued to pursue things with NatWest.
So, taking everything into account, I think the £125 compensation NatWest have paid 
is fair. Aside from the level of compensation Mr Bs been paid by NatWest, hes also 
let us know that he remains unhappy since receiving a card reader because he wants 
to complete two-factor authentication or SCA using a method that doesnt rely on him 
having a mobile phone and, in his experience, alternative options for SCA arent 
available.
Having looked at the information NatWest have sent me and going by this services 
experience of other NatWest complaints, I do think that NatWest offer alternative 
ways to strongly authenticate customers who dont possess a mobile phone or smart 
phone or who live in areas without mobile phone reception. I can see that this hasnt 
been Mr Bs experience, but I dont think thats because non-mobile alternatives 
arent offered by NatWest.
I think Mr Bs experience has been shaped by the fact that he wasnt sent a card 
reader until June 2021 and in the interim he added a mobile phone number to his 
account. As the mobile number is present, and its NatWests primary option for 
completing SCA, the system expects Mr B to receive OTPs to his mobile phone. 
Thats why the mobile phone formed part of the process for enabling the card reader. 
But if thered been no mobile phone number, Im satisfied the card reader could have 
been enabled another way.
Mr B has told me that he hasnt yet been able to switch to using the card reader as 
his primary SCA method. So, I invite NatWest, in response to this provisional 
decision, to set out clearly what steps he now needs to take to do that. But, overall, I 
do find that NatWest have now provided Mr B with a viable means to strongly 
authenticate without a mobile phone.
Throughout my consideration of this case Ive been acutely aware that Mr B is, more 
broadly, concerned about NatWest complying with the FCAs guidance on SCA. Hes 
clearly concerned for other consumers who either dont own a mobile phone or live in 
an area of poor mobile phone reception. I dont disagree with him that its important 
the implementation of SCA doesnt have the effect of excluding non-mobile users 
from online banking and payment services. But my determination of Mr Bs complaint 
must be specific to the facts and circumstances of his case, and I think what NatWest 
have done to resolve Mr Bs complaint already  supplying him with a card reader 
and paying him compensation  results in a fair outcome for Mr B.
For the reasons Ive explained I dont intend to ask National Westminster Bank Plc to 
do more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision NatWest confirmed that Mr Bs card reader is enabled 
and ready for use. They reiterated that whilst a mobile number is held this will be the default 
primary route for the OTP process to be attempted, but also provided instructions for how Mr B can use his card reader to generate an OTP instead. Ive passed these instructions on 
to Mr B.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional conclusion that NatWest dont need to do more to resolve 
his complaint. In summary, he said:
He had not asked for a review of his complaint by an Ombudsman because he was 
unhappy with the level of compensation NatWest had paid him. Hed been quite 
happy to accept £125 if this fell within the ombudsmans guidelines; the central 
issue for him was always NatWests compliance with SCA requirements and any 
suggestion that he was unhappy with the level of compensation should be struck 
out;
Hed followed the advice from branch staff in December 2019 about how to register a 
complaint by calling the number on a business card he was given for a Senior 
Personal Banker at the branch, and The outcome of the conversation was that I was 
told to wait for a card reader as they could only be issued via the NatWest website, 
and there was nothing else they could do to expedite matters.  any statement in the 
provisional decision that suggests he didnt raise his complaint at that time seeks to 
undermine his credibility;
He hadnt taken further steps to pursue his complaint directly with NatWest after 
December 2019 because he thought his case was being looked at by this service 
after March 2020, and he couldnt have readily visited the branch again due to 
restrictions put in place to manage the Covid-19 pandemic; and
He couldnt agree that NatWest can do no more to resolve the complaint  he said 
NatWest at least need to follow the invitation Id made in the provisional decision to 
set out clearly how he can use his card reader rather than mobile phone to access 
online banking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate Mr B might find this disappointing, Ive found no 
reason to depart from the provisional outcome I reached  which is that NatWest have 
already done enough to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs complaint was that NatWest had restricted his access to online banking by failing to 
provide an SCA method that was viable for him. I agree with him that NatWest were under 
an obligation to provide customers who dont possess a mobile phone, or who live and make 
payments in areas without reliable mobile phone reception, with a viable means to strongly 
authenticate when they implemented SCA. Broadly speaking, I find that NatWest did do that; 
they provided a card reader as an alternative. But in Mr Bs case, and for reasons which are 
very specific to his case, that alternative wasnt made available to him as it should have 
been in or around October 2019.
NatWest have now put that right in my view. They provided Mr B with a card reader in June 
2021 and paid him £125 compensation to acknowledge that hed been without a card reader 
for so long, and that the situation had caused him some inconvenience.
Mr B didnt think this outcome resolved his complaint because he thought the problem with 
the card reader should have been identified earlier and that, contrary to SCA guidance, 
NatWests implementation of SCA required users to have a mobile phone.
I accept that Mr Bs main concern has always been NatWests SCA compliance, not the level of compensation offered by NatWest to resolve his complaint. But he made it clear in 
conversation with our investigator that hed been inconvenienced, that the figure offered 
didnt seem to reflect this inconvenience and that he wanted our guidance on whether £125 
was an amount this service would say is fair (within the ombudsman's guidelines). So, I 
think it was important for me to set out in my provisional decision why I think £125 is fair 
even if Mr B isnt principally concerned with monetary compensation.
I remain of the view that the £125 NatWest have already paid is fair compensation. I say that 
because whilst its accepted that Mr B was left without a card reader between October 2019 
and June 2021 when he shouldnt have been, I think the length of time that situation 
continued is due to more factors than simply NatWests failure to identify the problem earlier. 
Also, during the period that Mr B didnt have a card reader, I think Mr B had other options 
which meant he wasnt, in fact, left without access to his account or statement information.
I dont doubt that Mr B did raise his complaint with NatWest in December 2019. As I said in 
my provisional decision, although NatWest have told me that they have no record of 
receiving a complaint about this issue from Mr B until May 2021, I think thats because 
branch staff didnt escalate his concerns for investigation in December 2019, not because he 
didnt raise them as hes always said he did.
So, part of the reason Mr Bs wasnt given a card reader sooner than June 2021 is clearly 
because branch staff didnt take appropriate action and investigate the problem in December 
2019. But when thinking about what NatWest should now do to remedy that, I have to be 
mindful that Mr B himself could have taken further steps to escalate matters beyond the 
branch before May 2021 and that, had he done so, its likely the length of time he was 
without a card reader would have been reduced.
I am aware, as I noted in the provisional decision (and as Ive now added to the what 
happened section above), that Mr B contacted this service in March 2020, and that it wasnt 
until more than a year later that an investigator passed on his concerns to NatWest for a 
response. Hes said he assumed that his concerns were being looked into by our service, 
and this, along with subsequent Covid-19 related restrictions, explains why he didnt take 
further action to pursue the matter directly with NatWest.
Ive considered this, but while he was waiting to hear from us, I still think Mr B could have 
mitigated the inconvenience that being without a card reader was causing him by both 
pursuing his complaint directly with NatWest and by adding his mobile phone number to his 
account earlier than he did. Its for these reasons that I dont think more compensation from 
NatWest for the time it took to provide him with a card reader is warranted.
Moving on to Mr Bs main complaint that NatWests implementation of SCA is mobile-
dependant and therefore not compliant with the FCAs expectations, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont agree thats the case. I think NatWest do offer a range of options 
for customers like Mr B who doesnt want to rely on his mobile phone for banking and 
payment activities because of reception issues. The fact that he wasnt issued with a card 
reader in or around October 2019 is obviously a failing on NatWests part, but one I still think 
theyve now fairly remedied.
Overall, I dont think NatWest need to do more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Theyve provided 
him with an alternative to using a mobile phone to strongly authenticate and paid him £125 
compensation for the delay in doing so. I appreciate Mr B didnt find it straightforward to 
switch from using a mobile phone to the card reader for authenticating because hed already 
added a mobile phone number by that point, and the system gives that primacy. But with the 
recent guidance hes had he should now be able to do that.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
National Westminster Bank Plc dont need to do any more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman