DRN-3795693
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc has cancelled cheques he received.
Mr O is represented in bringing his complaint to this service, but Ill refer to all submissions 
as being made by him for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr O received three cheques made out to him. He was told by the person that gave them to 
him that these were the equivalent to bankers drafts  which were issued by the bank and 
couldnt bounce or be cancelled because they were guaranteed by the bank itself. Mr O 
accepted the cheques on this basis.
When Mr O tried to pay the cheques in, he found that he was unable to. After some back 
and forth, Santander told Mr O that this was a civil issue and that it had no authority to 
discuss anything with him.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators looked into it. They 
said that Santander confirmed to this service that cheques like the ones here can be 
cancelled by their customers and are not guaranteed in the way Mr O says. They 
acknowledged that Mr O said he was told they were guaranteed in a call with Santander  
although they felt this was a mistake that happened long after the cheques were first issued 
and received by Mr O. So they didnt think Santander needed to do any more.
Mr O disagreed and explained why, amongst other factors, Santanders terms and 
conditions meant that it should not have cancelled the cheques. But our investigator didnt 
change their mind  saying that Santander were still entitled to cancel the cheques and that 
the terms and conditions didnt apply to Mr O, as he isnt a customer of Santander. Mr O 
disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive read all that Mr O has said and had regard for all of the points he makes. My 
decision here will be quite short though  in line with our role as a quick and informal service. 
This is because what I need to decide is quite straightforward  that is, was Santander 
entitled to cancel the cheques here and has it acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances of this complaint?
Mr O isnt a customer of Santander in these circumstances, but hes able to bring a 
complaint to this service as the true owner of the cheques in question, under the rules that 
apply to this service. It is relevant that the person who issued the cheques is a customer of 
Santander though.
Santander has explained to this service why it cancelled the cheques in question. Thats not 
something we can share with Mr O, as its sensitive information and its asked us not to 
share it. But the reasons it has given mean that Im satisfied that it was entitled to cancel the 
cheques.
Santander is able to cancel or stop cheques of this sort in certain circumstances and has 
confirmed its process for doing so with us. Thats in line with how the industry generally 
deals with cheques, so its not unusual. That means that, for example, if a Santander 
customer (who it would have a contractual relationship with) asked it to cancel a cheque, 
then it would have to consider that request and act on it where appropriate. Despite 
considering all of Mr Os submissions, including those relating to the terms and conditions 
applicable to Santanders customer  I havent seen anything that makes me think it wasnt 
entitled to have cancelled these cheques in the circumstances.
Mr O says this resulted in an unfair outcome for him and I can see why  hes left without 
money that he believed was guaranteed by the bank. But nowhere have I seen any 
information that suggests that Santander could fairly be held liable for that understanding. It 
seems like his belief that the cheques were guaranteed in the way he says, came about 
because of what the party who gave him the cheques said  some time before he went to 
pay them. Thats a matter that Mr O would have to pursue with the other party that gave him 
the cheques, through channels other than this service. Its not something I can fairly hold 
Santander liable for here.
Mr O says that at one point, a staff member of Santander told him on the phone that 
cheques were guaranteed in the way he believed. Thats not helpful, or correct  but nor do I 
think it would be fair to bind Santander to what it said in error here. Instead, Santander 
should have explained that the right position is that there was nothing more it could do. It has 
now done that and so theres nothing more I can tell Santander to do either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman