DRN-3220106
The complaint
Mr T complains that Prepaid Financial Services Limited (PFS) closed his account without 
notice and wouldnt release his funds.
What happened
Mr T had an account with PFS.
In March 2021, Mr T received an incoming payment of €4,000 from a third party. On receipt 
of this payment, PFS blocked the account and asked Mr T for further information about 
himself and the source of the funds. But after PFS received information from Mr T it told him 
that it would close his account  and that PFS couldnt give him access to the remaining 
account balance or provide him with any additional information about the account.
Unhappy, Mr T contacted us.
Our investigator looked at this, and was satisfied that PFS was acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr T doesnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like PFS are subject to a number of legal and regulatory obligations. 
These require them to monitor accounts and mean that they may need to review accounts at 
any time.
In Mr Ts case, PFS requested information from Mr T following a large inbound payment. 
Looking at everything, Im satisfied that PFS was acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it did this. 
PFS wanted to know what Mr T used his account for, where the incoming funds had come 
from, proof of those funds and his relationship with the person who provided the funds. PFS 
also wanted Mr T to provide two photos of himself next to his national identity card and his 
payment card.
Mr T replied with two photographs showing his identity card and his payment card. He 
explained that hed received the payment from a childhood friend, and that he was using the 
card for savings and to pay for invoices such as for his apartment and his car.
PFS then decided to close Mr Ts account. I see PFSs agent told Mr T that the documents 
he had provided were unsatisfactory as they did not pass the compliance checks needed for 
his authentication. 
Ive found the terms and conditions for this account online. I see that in certain 
circumstances PFS may terminate the account without notice. And Im satisfied this would 
include instances where PFS had concerns about Mr Ts documents.
Mr T has sent me a copy of the information and photographs he sent PFS. Having looked at 
these, I can immediately see why PFS might have had concerns. And so I dont find that 
PFS acted unfairly in immediately closing Mr Ts account.
For similar reasons, I cant say PFS acted unfairly in holding onto the funds in Mr Ts 
account. Given the problems Ive already mentioned with the information Mr T sent PFS, I 
cant say that Mr T is entitled to these funds. So Im not going to tell PFS to release them.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman