DRN-3629314
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) wont refund the money she lost to a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In 2019, Mrs D came across a trading platform Ill refer to as U. At their direction, she made 
the following payments from her BOI account. These were made to a crypto wallet Mrs D set 
up. Shes told us U then converted the funds to cryptocurrency and transferred them on  
allegedly to her trading account with U. 
Date How the payment was made Amount
2 October 2020 Online banking £9,333.58
12 October 2020 Online banking £9,355.41
13 October 2020 Online banking £4,646.84
Total £23,335.83
Shortly after, Mrs Ds account with U showed shed made a substantial profit. But she ran 
into difficulty when she asked to withdraw this. And she ultimately realised shed been 
scammed. She complained to BOI that it had failed to identify that the payments were 
unusual, and to take adequate steps in response to protect her from the scam. Particularly in 
light of her vulnerable circumstances  which also contributed to the impact of the scam. 
BOI said that, as shed authorised the payments  including speaking to it directly about the 
second payment  it wouldnt refund her. And as the funds had been moved on from the 
crypto wallet by the time shed reported the scam, it couldnt recall them either.
Unhappy with this, Mrs D referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt think the 
first payment was unusual enough that BOI ought to have identified and responded to a 
fraud risk. He noted there had been some intervention with the second payment, which could 
have been a missed opportunity to check the payment further. But he ultimately wasnt 
persuaded that appropriate intervention would likely have unravelled the scam  particularly 
given how long shed been trading with U, seemingly without any problems, by that point.
Mrs D has appealed the investigators view. In summary, she says the payments were 
unusual; the intervention wasnt enough; and BOI didnt confirm it had attempted to recall the 
funds until March 2021, whereas she contacted it in January 2021.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, BOI is expected to execute authorised 
payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Mrs D was scammed. But 
nor is it in dispute that she authorised the payments. So the starting position is that shes 
liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. 
I agree with our investigator that the first payment wasnt so unusual that I would reasonably 
have expected BOI to suspect Mrs D was at risk of fraud. While it was a large payment, that 
wasnt completely out of character for her. There were several incoming and outbound 
payments of £10,000 or more in June and July 2020. That will have affected BOIs 
impression of what constituted normal account activity for Mrs D when she came to make 
the payments shes now disputing in October 2020. 
That said, the second £10,000 did trigger further checking by BOI  to establish whether it 
was actually Mrs D whod requested the payment. I agree with our investigator that this 
appears to be a missed opportunity to look into the circumstances of the payment further. 
But thats not enough for me to hold BOI liable for Mrs Ds loss. I need to consider whether, if 
BOI had intervened appropriately, it was likely to have succeeded in preventing her loss. 
Mrs D says BOI ought to have been concerned because the crypto wallet she was paying 
wasnt regulated. But it wasnt required to be. People can, and do, choose to make legitimate 
cryptocurrency investments. And banks arent expected to give general investment advice. 
So I dont agree the payment destination alone should have concerned BOI if it had 
questioned her about the payment. On the other hand, I dont think it was enough to 
reassure BOI all was well. Consumers can be instructed to buy genuine cryptocurrency to 
transfer on as part of a scam. So I would have expected BOI to have asked Mrs D more 
about what she was doing  and to have warned her if it sounded like a scam.
As our investigator pointed out, Mrs D had been dealing with U for over a year by the time of 
these payments  and had invested heavily with them. She told BOI shed done 
considerable research into the company, and it seems she was satisfied they were legitimate 
based on her long-running dealings with them. Theres no indication she had any problems 
prior to her withdrawal attempt. And so, in the circumstances, I agree with our investigator 
that Mrs D was likely too far under the spell of the scam, being convinced by her own 
interactions and research, and so was less likely to be receptive to questioning and warnings 
by her bank about how to tell whether U were legitimate. 
I therefore cant safely conclude BOI more likely than not missed a reasonable opportunity to 
prevent Mrs Ds loss. Nor do I think BOI could have recovered her loss by the time she 
reported the matter in January 2021. By then, the funds had been moved on from her own 
crypto wallet which shed sent them to, onto Us platform. Otherwise, she wouldnt have 
incurred the loss (as she could have retrieved the funds herself from her wallet). BOI could 
only attempt recovery from the account paid directly. And so I dont think it missed an 
opportunity to recover her loss either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs D, who I know has been deeply affected 
by this scam. But its outside my role to look into the actions of the perpetrators. Im limited to 
considering whether any failings by BOI caused, or contributed to, her loss. As Ive not found 
that to be the case, Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman