DRN-1741072
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited refused to provide cover for a claim on his 
Breach of Leasehold Covenants Indemnity insurance policy.
What happened
In 2005 Mr W bought a property. He took out his policy to provide cover in the event that 
someone took legal action against him for a breach of indemnity covenants relating to the 
property. He wanted cover because some alterations had been made to the property in the 
past, which were potentially in breach of covenants set out in the lease. 
Some years later there was a dispute between Mr W and the lessor. Their differences 
related to alleged disrepair to the property, who was responsible for the costs of repair work, 
and whether Mr W was in breach of his obligations under the lease. The dispute was 
referred to an arbitration hearing in June 2019, where Mr W was unsuccessful. The lessor 
then issued a formal notice on Mr W referring to various breaches of covenant by him.
Mr W complained that Aviva had failed to provide cover under his policy to assist him with 
the matter. Aviva said the policy only provided cover for breaches of covenant that occurred 
at least 12 months before the policy started, and the notice related to alterations to the 
property and other matters that all took place after Mr W took out the policy. 
Aviva noted that Mr W disagreed with the arbitrators findings but said it was entitled to rely 
on those findings, together with legal advice that had been provided. Aviva didnt agree with 
Mr W that if it had taken a more active role in the proceedings the outcome would have been 
different.
When Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He said he had explained to Aviva why the 
policy should have protected him but it had failed to take account of all the relevant 
circumstances. However, our investigator didnt agree that Aviva should have provided 
cover. 
The investigator said it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the outcome of the arbitration, 
which concluded that the breaches of covenant happened after the policy started. She also 
noted that Aviva had considered legal advice about whether there was any part of the policy 
that could assist with the claim. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
Mr W disagreed. He said the investigator had taken on overly simplistic view of a very 
complex situation. He felt Aviva should have made more detailed inquiries to protect him. He 
also raised some further issues, which the investigator explained would need to be 
considered separately as they had arisen more recently, and so would form a separate 
complaint. She didnt change her view of this complaint.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint had been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy only provides cover for certain events, as follows:
The insurer will indemnify the insured against all loss damages costs and expenses
incurred directly attributable to breach of the restrictive covenant(s) including forfeiture or 
attempted forfeiture of the lease of the property
.
And the policy says the cover applies to any alteration, extension or conversion works to the 
property, completed at least 12 months before the policy date.
The policy started on 16 May 2005, so cover is only available in respect of breaches of 
covenant that occurred more than 12 months before that date. The aim of the policy is to 
provide cover for Mr W in circumstances where work had been carried out to the property in 
the past, not in respect of any works he has carried out since buying the property. 
Mr W says the investigator took a simplistic view of what is a complex matter. But I think she 
was right to focus on they key issue in this complaint. The crux of the matter is whether the 
dispute concerned breaches of covenant arising out work that had been carried out at least 
12 months before he took out the policy. If it concerns work carried out later on, then hes not 
covered. Thats the issue to be determined. 
The notice served on Mr W after the arbitration refers to breaches of covenant by him. I think 
its clear from the documents that the breaches referred to all relate to incidents that took 
place after Mr W took out the policy. The arbitrator referred to this in his decision, where he 
said he accepted that Mr W carried out the work in question. I appreciate that Mr W doesnt 
agree with the arbitrators decision. But the arbitrator reached his decision after considering 
the relevant documents and hearing evidence. In these circumstances it was reasonable for 
Aviva to rely on those findings.
I dont think it was for Aviva to take a more active role in those proceedings. When Mr W first 
sought to claim on the policy, it wasnt clear what breaches of covenant were alleged against 
him. So it wasnt clear to Aviva whether there was a valid claim under the policy terms. But 
Mr W was represented by his solicitors and received advice from them and from a barrister. 
Once the nature of the claims against Mr W became clear, Aviva corresponded with his 
solicitors. They provided details of the barristers advice, which said it was far from clear that 
cover under the policy would apply. It was reasonable for Aviva to rely on legal advice such 
as this. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva not to become more involved. And since the 
arbitrator then made his findings after hearing evidence from Mr W, I dont think theres any 
evidence on which I could say the outcome would have been different if Aviva had been 
more involved.
The issues relating to the property and the dispute between Mr W and the other party were 
ongoing for some time. I accept that the background to this complaint is, as Mr W says, more 
complex. But the issue for me to decide is simply whether he was entitled to cover under the 
terms of the policy. So I have focused on that key point. And for the reasons set out above, 
in my judgment Avivas decision was fair and in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman