DRN-3728478
The complaint
Mr M, Mr S and Mrs D bring a complaint on behalf of the estate of the late Ms M. They say 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) has unfairly refused a claim they made 
under her life assurance policy. Instead, LV cancelled the policy altogether on the grounds of 
misrepresentation. 
What happened
Ms M applied for her policy through a third party adviser. Her representatives say she first 
obtained a quote for insurance on 29 June 2006. However, the policy did not come into force 
until 10 January 2007, following a quote produced by the adviser on 8 January 2007. Ms Ms 
policy offered decreasing term life assurance with an initial sum assured of £45,524 for a 29-
year term. 
In September 2021, Ms M sadly passed away. Her family later made a life assurance claim 
to LV.  Further pathology investigations were undertaken, resulting in a death certificate 
being issued in January 2022. The underlying causes for Ms Ms death were given as Covid-
19 and pneumonia. It also set out a significant condition of end-stage renal failure due to a 
type of scleroderma (affecting the immune system, blood vessels and connective tissue). 
LV therefore sought medical information relating to Ms Ms medical history  specifically 
regarding renal failure as this had not been disclosed on her policy application. The 
representatives explained that Ms M first became unwell at the end of 2007. LV asked for 
access to Ms Ms medical records. 
In February 2022, the representatives of Ms Ms estate complained. They said when they 
first spoke with LV to advise of Ms Ms death, they were told a claim would be paid within a 
few days of receiving a death certificate. They then complained again on 11 March 2022. 
That same day, LV issued a reply declining the claim. It said that Ms M had failed to tell it 
about pain she had with her joints and limbs  and she had seen a doctor about it two days 
before the policy began. These symptoms were later diagnosed as a type of scleroderma. It 
offered to refund all of the premiums Ms M had paid to her estate, totalling £1007.48. 
The representatives appealed the decision noting that LV had relied on Ms M being 
diagnosed with scleroderma as a reason to refuse the claim, despite this coming nearly 10 
months after the policy had begun. They explained that at the time of taking the policy 
alongside mortgage lending, Ms M had been renovating her new home herself  and they 
believed that this was the reason for her feeling unwell.  
They also said they felt LV had only asked the GP for medical evidence about scleroderma 
and kidney matters and this felt unduly targeted. They explained how Ms M had led a full 
and productive life with scleroderma, and it was only when she contracted Covid-19 that she 
became seriously unwell. 
In June 2022, LV told Mr M that it was unwilling to change its view on the claim. It reiterated 
that Ms Ms GP records confirmed she was seen with generalised pain especially in her 
shoulders, arms, hands, knees, ankles and feet. So, the question regarding back, neck, 
shoulder or knee pain should have been answered yes. If she had done so, LVs 
underwriters would have awaited the full outcome of the rheumatology referral. Once Ms M 
had been diagnosed with her type of scleroderma, it could not have offered any cover at all.  
LV also reminded Mr M that once it had bank details, it would make the refund of premium 
payment, following the cancellation of the late Ms Ms policy.
Mr M brought the complaint to this service, on behalf of Mr S and Mrs D, as legal 
representatives of the estate of the late Ms M. He supplied a detailed particulars of claim 
document which summarised how they contended that LVs investigation was biased and 
unfair. Mr M explained that LV had refused the claim and voided the policy without properly 
considering the medical evidence.  
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He recognised that at the time 
of the application, Ms M couldnt have known she would have gone on to be diagnosed with 
her type of scleroderma  but she had sought medical advice for the symptoms on the same 
day her policy application was completed. And so, she ought to have told LV about those 
symptoms. Had she done so, then LV couldnt have offered her insurance. And so, LV had 
fairly refused the claim and voided the late Ms Ms policy now.  
Mr M said that the representatives for the estate of Ms M did not agree with our investigator. 
He supplied a detailed written appeal of the decision and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. I will not be setting out the letter in full here, though I have read it 
in its entirety. In summary, they said:
they do not believe that all of the 73 pages of documentation they submitted were 
properly considered when the investigator reached his opinion on the complaint;
they say this because the investigator asked them for a copy of Ms Ms will via 
telephone, something already on file;
and he produced his investigation outcome far more quickly than expected;
that documentation included supporting evidence from Ms Ms GP, the pathologist 
and the Scleroderma Society;
they believe their particulars of claim ought to be read and understood in full;
the business which has now taken over the advice firm has no evidence from the 
time of the sale;
LV also has failed to keep records  it has not got a copy of the quotation for cover 
from 29 June 2006, nor has it retained a call log from January 2020 when Ms M had 
called LV in respect of terminal illness benefit;
they take the view that the questions asked of Ms M in her policy application now 
provide a get out clause for LV to avoid paying out on policies, if it wishes to do so;
to include questions that ask about aches and pains in the last five years is 
unreasonable because such pains are part of most peoples everyday lives;
Ms M answered no to the question in dispute because earlier on in the question it 
asked her only to disclose if the matter was not already mentioned;
if it is accepted that Ms M completed her questionnaire after the GP appointment on 
8 January 2007, it is likely that she believed she had already given information by 
disclosing her thyroid condition;
therefore her actions cannot be interpreted as a misrepresentation;
both the appointment on 8 January and the follow up blood test of 12 January 2007 
related to her thyroid condition and this was disclosed;
her GP confirmed as such in the letter of 12 April 2022;
the GP confirmed that the rheumatology referral date (alleged to be 2 February 2007) 
was in fact an error and it took place on 6 March 2007;the blood tests were mostly normal;
and specifically Ms Ms extractable nuclear antigen level test (which is used for 
autoimmune conditions such as lupus and scleroderma) came back negative;
thereafter, the rheumatology appointment saw the consultant diagnose Ms M with 
rheumatoid arthritis, not scleroderma;
this was then reconfirmed on 5 June 2007  and they consider that the end of the 
investigations for Ms Ms symptoms;
so  LV ought to underwrite the policy on that basis, and they contend it would have 
insured Ms M with a rheumatoid arthritis diagnosis despite the investigator saying 
otherwise;
the later diagnosis of scleroderma came on suddenly  the type of scleroderma that 
Ms M had is confirmed by the Scleroderma Society as having a rapid onset;
Ms M did not pass away because of her condition;
the pathologist report confirms her unrelated causes of death and that scleroderma 
was only a contributing factor, not a cause;
despite this, LV has placed great reliance in scleroderma being included on Ms Ms 
death certificate;
in their view, LV has interpreted answers on its questionnaire in a way that would 
allow it to decline the claim and settlement of a legitimate policy;
LV has failed Ms M and her family;
they feel this service should order LV to reinstate the policy, direct it to properly 
consider and pay the claim with interest;
they also believe appropriate compensation ought to be awarded for the mental 
trauma that they have suffered as a result of having to prove they have a justifiable 
claim against the late Ms Ms policy. 
LV said it had no other comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of the evidence before me including the and submissions from both 
parties in reaching my decision. Though this wont be the outcome that the representatives 
of the estate of Ms M have hoped for, Im not able to uphold this complaint. My view is that 
LV has acted fairly when voiding the late Ms Ms insurance policy. I will set out my reasons 
for that conclusion below.  
Id like to thank the parties for their patience, given it was necessary to have a grant of 
probate in order to continue the complaint. I was sorry to learn that Ms M had passed away 
and send my condolences to her family.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. Though I know Mr M and those advocating for the estate of Ms M has suggested 
otherwise, that is what LV has done. 
When it first received Ms Ms death certificate, LV was prompted to review Ms Ms medical 
records because she had suffered with end-stage renal failure due to a type of scleroderma 
and it was recorded as contributing to death but not related to the disease or condition 
causing it. And, Ms M had completed a policy application which made no mention of either condition. That does not mean LV suspected there had been a misrepresentation at that 
stage, but rather, that it was prompted by the circumstances of the claim to seek further 
relevant evidence; this is since end-stage renal failure is usually predicated on a 
longstanding history of renal disease. 
I have looked at the five questions LV sent to Ms Ms GP to process the claim, these were 
targeted and asked when Ms M was first diagnosed with scleroderma, the type of condition, 
how long she had symptoms of the condition, and an additional question about the date from 
which she had been registered as awaiting a renal transplant. It also noted as a sixth point 
that it required the information if any of these answers occurred prior to 10 January 2007. 
And so, I believe that in these particular circumstances an information request sufficiently 
targeted to establishing a picture of Ms Ms health in the period preceding her policy 
application relating to her history of a type of scleroderma was proportionate. 
I know Mr M has complained that it was a very targeted set of questions, but I believe LVs 
actions were compliant with the framework given in the Association of British Insurers Code 
of Practice on Managing Claims (the code). That code gives guidance for insurers and 
customers concerning the continuing fair treatment of claims under long-term protection 
insurance contracts, and the basis on which an insurer can take certain actions on the 
grounds of misrepresentation. It explains that insurers should only ask for relevant medical 
information needed to properly assess a claim.   
It was the return of this GP request which gave LV cause to review the policy application and 
consider whether a misrepresentation had taken place. That was because the GP said Ms M 
was first diagnosed with possible scleroderma (with a history of one year) on 10 July 2007.  
It is therefore reasonable that LV went on to review Ms Ms records further specifically in 
relation to scleroderma, based on what she was asked on the policy application. It said:
In the last five years have you had any of the following:
-arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, spine, neck, or joint disorder, including slipped disc, 
sciatica, back, neck, shoulder or knee pain, or gout? and 
-received or have been advised to have any investigations, scans, or blood tests 
in connection with any medical condition not already mentioned?
Ms M answered no to both questions.  
Though I am mindful of the mitigation and the considered explanation Mr M has given, I am 
of the view that these questions should have been answered positively.  
I say that because on 8 January 2007, Ms M attended her GP. The record of that attendance 
is noted as Pain  generalised. It notes that:
Seen in GPs surgery  general esp shoulders and arms and hands and knees and 
ankles and feet always swollen  nil else on ros  worse mone- suggest inflammatory 
process  due tfts so for [various other blood tests] as well please
NB  mum has rheumatoid arthritis and also hypothyroidism.
I realise that Ms M was due her thyroid check and it was for this reason the tfts (thyroid 
function tests) were required. But that does not alter that Ms M received advice because of 
her symptom of pain in her various joints, whatever the origin of the appointment. This was reconfirmed to Mr M following his query to Ms Ms GP surgery in March 2022. At 
that time it said, I have no way of knowing who orchestrated the review on the 8th of January 
2007 as out list of appointments only goes back to 2012 now. I can only go on Dr [NAMES] 
notes on the day which says seen in GP surgery about joint swellings and pain, and this 
prompted adding further tests of her routine TFT check that was planned the following week. 
Thus would suggest it was a face to face appointment booked to review her symptoms.
I recognise that if Ms Ms application had firstly been completed in June of the previous year 
and it was over six months later that the application was submitted. However, LV isnt at fault 
for that. Until a policy is placed on risk, an applicant has an ongoing duty to amend any of 
the answers to the questions, if their circumstances have changed. And, as Ill discuss 
below, I believe it likely Ms M was aware of her symptoms in June 2006 in any event. 
Even if I were to disregard the second question regarding blood tests - given it cannot be 
said with absolute certainty whether the GP appointment or the policy application submission 
on 8 January 2007 came first  the first question was clear and unambiguous in requiring 
information on whether Ms M had suffered with pain in various joints over the last five years. 
And the medical evidence demonstrates that she had suffered with this issue.
This was confirmed by the GP that she saw in January. In March 2007, he referred Ms M to 
the rheumatology department following her blood results (normal aside from except weakly 
positive antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies result), noting how Ms M presents with a year 
of intermittent soft tissue swelling particularly to the ankles and knees and small joints of her 
hand. These are hot and tender at the time. 
I am also mindful that in disclosing her underactive thyroid on her policy application, Ms M 
did so having answered a question which fell within the same subset of medical issues within 
the last five years, as above. So, I believe on balance, she knew, or should have known 
about answering at least the first of the other two questions positively. I accept that Ms M 
couldnt have known she would go on to be diagnosed with scleroderma some months later. 
But she wasnt being asked that  LV wanted to know if she had suffered with any of the 
listed conditions or symptoms, and Ms M had a number of painful and swollen joints. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be 
categorised in one of two ways  either, as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums.  
Careless misrepresentation is defined as applying where the misrepresentation resulted 
from insufficient care  the failure by the customer to exercise reasonable care. This 
includes anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious 
negligence. I believe Ms Ms actions sit within the lower end of that band. Thats since I 
accept Ms M made another disclosure under the same five-year history question subset and 
noting that the initial application took place some months before the policy came into force. I 
note LV also agreed the misrepresentation was careless.
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it could not have insured the applicant, it can void the policy.As Ive said above, in the event of careless misrepresentation an insurer can avoid a policy 
altogether  if it can demonstrate that (including after any postponement or deferred period) 
it could not have offered any insurance in the first place. And this is what LV did, calculating 
the refund of premiums for Mr M and the representatives of the estate of Ms M.  
I have seen LVs retrospective underwriting decision and rationale for awaiting the outcome 
of Ms Ms rheumatology referral. Whilst I cannot repeat the exact wording here, LV has 
shown that it could not have offered Ms M insurance had she answered the question above 
differently regarding joint pain. I recognise that in April 2007, Ms Ms working diagnosis was 
that of rheumatoid arthritis, and a management plan was put in place with the consultant 
rheumatologist. However, Ms M was not discharged from the consultants care, because the 
matter required review in three months. LV would have needed to see evidence of the 
impact of the plan before it could agree to insurance terms.  
As it was, Ms M returned to the GP in June 2007 with unresolved symptoms, noting she did 
not believe the management plan had helped. And at the follow up of July 2007, the 
consultant rheumatologist set out that I do wonder whether she could be developing 
scleroderma. LV was not able to accept insurance terms until that type of condition was 
known, and sadly it could not offer Ms M any insurance upon diagnosis in October 2007 due 
to the specific nature of her type of scleroderma. 
Im therefore unable to order or compel LV to reach a different assessment and pay the late 
Ms Ms claim, as that is not the appropriate remedy for this type of misrepresentation. If LV 
had known about Ms Ms relevant medical circumstances, it would have postponed her 
application because her symptoms did not resolve until diagnosis; thereafter, it could never 
have been able to offer her life assurance cover in the first place.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for the late Ms Ms family, I am not able to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S 
and the estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman