DRN-2585174
The complaint
Mr U complains that Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI) rejected his claim on 
his insurance backed warranty. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr U had the windows on his house replaced. The work came with a ten-year 
insurance backed warranty. In December 2019 Mr U noticed the lead on the windows was 
coming away from the window pane. The company that installed the windows had ceased 
trading, so Mr U contacted GPI who underwrote the warranty.
GPI sent out a specialist to inspect the problem. They said the lead had only been installed 
on the inside of the window rather than on the outside too, as is usual. They agreed it was 
defective and was now coming away from the window pane. 
Based on this GPI declined Mr Us claim. It said the warranty only provided cover for 
problems with the profile of the windows for ten years and the hardware for one year. It said 
as the problem was with the lead on the glass panes then it isnt covered under the warranty.
Mr U didnt think this was fair. He said that the warranty was intended to cover the whole 
window apart from the handles. He provided a copy of a warranty document from the 
website of a new company that was similar to the one that installed his windows and said 
this showed that the warranty provides cover for all defects.
GPI didnt uphold his complaint. It said the warranty document was for a different legal entity, 
so the wording didnt apply to Mr Us windows. It said the receipt for his windows stated that 
the ten-year warranty is for the window profiles only, so this is all that would be covered.
Mr U didnt agree this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the defect with Mr Us 
windows was with the window panes and not the profiles. So she didnt think GPI had acted 
unfairly by not accepting his claim.
Mr U didnt agree, so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of an insurance backed warranty is to provide protection to make good 
problems that arise with work carried out by a company, if the company responsible ceases
trading. Its provided by contractors to offer peace of mind to their customers for the work
they are doing. However in the event that the original company goes out of business, the
insurer that underwrites the policy is only required to carry out repairs on the things that were 
covered by the original warranty.
Looking at the documentation provided from when the windows were installed, I can see that 
the receipt for the window installation states as follows: 
All work will carry our Ten-Year Profile Guarantee and One-Year Hardware Guarantee with 
complete after sales service.
In relation to the insurance backed warranty, the policy document states:
The insurer shall not be liable for:
1. Any loss or damage that would not have been recoverable under the contractors 
written guarantee.
So GPI are only responsible for covering any defects that arise that are covered by the 
original warranty.
As Mr U noticed the damage four years after the installation, the only warranty cover 
applicable would be the ten-year profile guarantee. This means that only defects with the 
profiles of the windows would be covered.
Mr U has said there isnt a definition for profiles in the policy, but a number of window 
installation experts had assured him that warranties for window installation would cover him 
for everything apart from the handles of the windows.
While I sympathise with Mr U, GPI can only go on the wording of the warranty provided for 
the work. I can see that the word profile isnt defined in the policy. When there isnt a 
definition provided, we think its fair to consider what the normal use of this term would be in 
the context. 
GPI has said that a word profile is commonly used in window installation and refers only to 
the frame of the windows. From experience and from looking at definitions provided by 
numerous window specialists, I agree this is a reasonable definition of this term. 
The defect with Mr Us windows relates to the lead on the glass pane. So this doesnt relate 
to the profile of the window, as this is only the structure that keeps the window in place. So 
while GPIs specialist agreed there is a defect with how the lead was fitted, this doesnt 
mean it would be covered under the warranty. And as Im satisfied the warranty only covers 
defects to the frame of the window, I dont think GPI has acted unfairly by not accepting Mr U 
claim. 
For these reasons I think GPI has acted fairly and wont require it to do anything further. 
I note Mr U has provided another warranty document that he said is on the website of a 
company that has been set up by the previous director of the company that installed his 
windows. However, I cant consider policy documents that dont relate directly to the work 
that he had completed. As this is provided by a completely different registered company, I 
cant consider the warranty they provide in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman