DRN-4035464
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made under his 
home emergency policy.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Aviva has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In December 2021, Aviva sent an engineer to Mr Ms property after he reported a fault with 
his boiler, which meant it was making a loud noise. Mr M was told that the boiler was 
deemed beyond economical repair as the part needed was obsolete. Mr M was told Aviva 
could supply a replacement boiler under the policy, but he would have to pay for the 
installation costs. 
Mr M needed to pay a deposit prior to the boiler being installed. He attempted to pay this via 
his credit card, but the payment wouldnt go through. Mr M asked Aviva to suspend the 
installation while he sorted things out with his credit card provider. 
In April 2022, Mr M asked our service to help him with a complaint against Aviva. He said he 
was expecting it to get in touch about an alternative payment method, but it hadnt. He told 
us Aviva had cancelled his policy.
After Mr Ms concerns were put to Aviva, it responded to his complaint. Aviva said its 
installations team had informed it that Mr M had asked them to put the job on hold and 
hadnt heard from him since. Aviva gave Mr M a telephone number for the installations team 
for him to call if he wanted to proceed. 
Aviva said it had cancelled the policy in line with its terms and conditions which say that if a 
boiler is deemed to be beyond economical repair, the policy will be cancelled. 
Mr M called Aviva to try to arrange the installation. Aviva said it had booked in for a surveyor 
to call Mr M the following Monday to give him a new installation price over the phone. 
However, Mr M says he wasnt called as promised. 
Mr M sent a letter to Aviva raising his concerns that he hadnt been called as arranged. He 
suggested Aviva send him a voucher for the boiler so he could arrange the installation 
himself. Aviva has acknowledged receiving Mr Ms letter in July 2022, but it didnt respond.
In December 2022, Mr M asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator looked into his 
concerns but didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that Avivas 
communication could have been better. But he was satisfied it had considered his claim in 
line with the terms of the policy. He said Aviva wasnt responsible for Mr Ms payment being 
declined by his bank. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators outcome. Mr M said his bank wouldnt allow him to 
pay a sub-contractor because of an issue hed had in the past regarding payment to a 
builders sub-contractor. He wanted to be able to pay Avivas agent (H) who could then 
pass it on to the sub-contractor. He said H hadnt contacted him about the installation or 
replied to the letter he sent in July. He would prefer that he be sent a voucher so he could 
arrange the installation himself. 
Our investigator asked Aviva if it could assist Mr M with getting the new boiler installed if he 
paid the installation cost. Aviva said it wasnt able to install a new boiler for Mr M due to the 
time that had passed. It said Mr M didnt hold any active insurance cover with it anymore.
Mr M asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So, the matter was 
passed to me to decide.
I asked Aviva for some further information and queried why it had said it was unable to install 
the boiler due to the period of time that had lapsed. 
Aviva said it could award Mr M the cost of the boiler it was going to install in December 
2021, which had a cost of £339.28.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say:
If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, 
replace and install a new boiler, but you will be required to pay the installation costs
From what Ive seen, Mr Ms boiler was around sixteen years old at the time of his claim. So, 
I think it was reasonable for Aviva to have offered to replace his boiler if Mr M paid the 
installation costs. 
Ive listened to recordings of Mr Ms telephone conversations with Avivas surveyor in 
January 2022. Mr M attempted to pay a £750 deposit by credit card over the phone. The 
following day, Mr M said his bank had rejected the payment and said he shouldnt make a 
payment to that account. Mr M said he wanted to suspend installation until further notice and 
would be back in touch with Aviva once hed got more information from his credit card 
company. 
The following day, Mr M was sent letters informing him that his policy had been cancelled. 
One of the letters said: If you are entitled to a contribution towards a replacement boiler, this 
will be sent by cheque in the next 28 days.
Aviva has noted that Mr M called a couple of times in March 2022 to query why he hadnt 
received a cheque. Aviva hasnt provided call recordings and its notes are brief. But it 
doesnt look like Aviva explained to Mr M why it wasnt sending him a cheque or there was 
any further discussion about indemnifying him for his loss.
 
I acknowledge Aviva wasnt responsible for Mr Ms credit card payment not going through. 
As matters stood in January 2022, it was up to Mr M to get back in touch with Aviva to 
arrange the installation. I also dont think it was wrong for Aviva to have cancelled the policy 
in January. However, it doesnt look like Aviva communicated with Mr M clearly when he 
phoned in March 2022.Ive also listened to a call that took place in July 2022, when Mr M got in touch with Avivas 
installation team as recommended in its final response letter of June 2022. Aviva said it had 
arranged for a surveyor to call Mr M the following Monday to give him a new installation 
quote. Mr M tried to explain the issue regarding making a payment to a sub-contractor, 
rather than Avivas agent (H). However, the agent he spoke to told him that they needed to 
get the price before they talk about payments. 
Mr M says he wasnt called by the surveyor as promised, and I havent seen any evidence 
from Aviva to show that any attempts to contact him were made. Mr M raised concerns 
about this in a letter which is dated around a week after the appointment. He also suggested 
Aviva provide him with a voucher so he could arrange the installation himself.
Aviva has acknowledged receiving this letter at the time and that it wasnt responded to. 
Aviva says it asked the agent to review the letter, following our file request (in December) but 
he deemed no further action was required.
The relevant industry rules require Aviva to provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress. I dont think Aviva 
has done enough to help Mr M with his claim. Aviva hasnt communicated clearly with Mr M, 
and as a result its delayed progress on his claim.
Its also concerning that Aviva said it wouldnt be offering Mr M a free boiler after our 
investigator asked it to assist him with getting a boiler installed. The policy was active when 
Mr M made his claim, so he is entitled to be indemnified in line with its terms. 
Aviva has now said it would be willing to pay Mr M the cost of the boiler it was going to install 
in December 2021 (an Ideal Logic H18). However, it says the cost is £339.28, which appears 
to be much lower than the retail price for the boiler. So, I intend to direct Aviva to pay a cash 
settlement equivalent to what it would cost Mr M to replace his boiler with an Ideal Logic 
H18.
I also think it would be fair for Aviva to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced from its poor communication and resulting delay in getting the matter 
resolved.
I set out what I intended to direct Aviva to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr M said he had nothing further to add, only to correct the part of my provisional decision 
where it said Aviva was going to install a new boiler in December 2021. He said the 
installation was going to be in March and the cost to him was £2,700 which included some 
upgrade, not £339.28. He said this might be a minor mistake on Avivas part, which I dont 
need to challenge.
Aviva said it was disappointing that Id reached a different conclusion to our investigator. It 
said it had asked its Product and Boiler Installation teams to see if they had anything further 
to add. Their only comment was that the root cause of the issue was Mr M being unable to 
pay, so they werent sure what more they could have done. They were waiting for Mr M to 
contact them, but their notes suggested he didnt come back to them directly.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The amount of approximately £2,700, Mr M has referred to, was what he was quoted for 
installation, which might also have included the cost of an upgrade. The amount of £339.28 
is what Aviva offered to pay Mr M instead of supplying him with a new boiler. This didnt 
include the cost of installation.
I dont expect Aviva to pay the cost of installation as this isnt something Mr M is entitled to 
under the terms of the policy. However, I dont think the £339.28 it offered would be enough 
for Mr M to buy a replacement boiler. So, I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to pay him 
a cash settlement equivalent to the retail price of the boiler it was going to install. That way   
Mr M should be able to purchase a boiler and arrange for it to be installed himself.
I appreciate Aviva wasnt responsible for the difficulties Mr M had in making the payment for 
the installation. However, Ive explained why I think Avivas communication was poor and it 
didnt do enough to help him with his claim. I think £300 is a fair amount to compensate Mr M 
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of this.
Putting things right
Aviva should:
Pay Mr M a cash settlement equivalent to the retail price of an Ideal Logic H18 boiler.
Pay Mr M £300 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman