DRN-2278334
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Miss M says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In September 2000 Miss M took out a store card with PPI whilst she was out shopping. 
Amongst other things, Miss M said she had a long term serious health problem when she 
took out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ms complaint upheld it. Mainly, he didnt think Miss M 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for any health problem Miss M had when she bought 
it. 
AXA disagreed with our adjudicators view. Its not in dispute that Miss M had the condition 
she mentioned. But AXA said Miss M had previously told them that shed never had any time 
off work due to the condition, which AXA said suggested the condition wasnt severe enough 
to affect the decision to take out the policy at the date of sale. 
AXA doesnt believe that this condition was sufficient on its own for the policy to be 
unsuitable. And it says Miss M wouldve been able to claim for any other condition that 
meant she had to take time off work. 
AXA told us that it required Miss M to provide evidence that her condition was ongoing and 
how it affected her work. 
So Miss Ms complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Miss M enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Miss M.
It looks like the policy Miss M bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, 
disease, condition or injury she knew about when she signed up for the PPI.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims resulting from Miss Ms medical condition. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Miss M. I say 
this because I think that her condition is relatively serious. Miss M told us she was 
prescribed medication for her condition. And I agree with the adjudicator that its a condition 
that can be hard to manage effectively  it can be unpredictable and quickly worsen. Miss M 
had only been diagnosed with the condition a couple of years earlier. So I think Miss M might 
reasonably have expected that her health condition could potentially have a significant 
impact on her day to day life and lead to her needing to take time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this policy limitation to Miss Ms attention, as it shouldve 
done. And, if it had, I think its likely that Miss M wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
When Miss M agreed to the PPI she was entitled to have the main features brought to her 
attention. But AXA failed to ask Miss M anything at all about her health on the application 
she filled in to take out the policy  and there was nothing on it which suggested her health 
might be an important issue. Nor has AXA shown me that this was something that was 
discussed with Miss M at the time. Given her medical condition was an ongoing one, I think 
Miss M wouldve wanted to know it would be covered by taking out this type of cover. And if 
AXA had done this, I dont think its likely that Miss M wouldve thought the policy was right 
for her.  
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Miss M has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
How it does this will depend on whether Miss Ms store card account is still active or has 
been closed.
If Miss Ms account is still active, the policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled 
already and:
A. AXA should find out how much Miss M would owe on her store card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.B. If  when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss M wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. AXA should tell Miss M what its done to work out A and B.
If Miss Ms account has been closed: 
A. AXA should find out how much Miss M would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss M wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Miss M what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman