DRN-3767439
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under her home 
insurance policy, for damage from a flood at her property. 
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
This decision covers Ms Ms complaint to this service made in March 2022, following her 
complaint to Aviva in October 2021 (and their final response in November 2021). As events 
after Avivas final response havent been considered by them, this decision doesnt cover 
events after that date.
What happened
In April 2021 Ms M returned to her flat to find it had been flooded from an upstairs 
neighbours flat. The flooding particularly affected Ms Ms kitchen. Ms M contacted Aviva to 
notify them of the incident and lodge a claim. Aviva appointed a contractor (P) to deal with 
the reinstatement work at the property, including stripping out of the damaged kitchen and its 
refitting. Work began to strip out the damaged kitchen the following month, followed by 
equipment to dry the property before refitting of the kitchen could begin. The drying work 
was completed by the start of August 2021.
However, work to refit the kitchen didnt start. Unhappy at progress with her claim and 
refitting of her kitchen, Ms M complained to Aviva in October 2021. She was unhappy at the 
time taken for drying out, that a gas pipe had been kept uncapped when the damaged 
kitchen was stripped out and a lack of responsiveness from her claim handler. It had been 
six months from the incident, and three months from the drying equipment being removed, 
but no progress with refitting her kitchen. 
In their final response, Aviva said the claim had been put on hold by Ms M and that once she 
was ready for the refitting work to recommence she would contact P. Aviva also said theyd 
tried to contact Ms M but hadnt been able to discuss the complaint with her. As she hadnt 
called them back, they presumed she was content with the position.
Ms M then complained to this service. She was unhappy at being without a kitchen for some 
eleven months from the time it was stripped out in May 2021 until recently. She also lost use 
of part of her flat from having to use it to store items from the kitchen. She wasnt happy at 
how her claim had been handled and that a gas pipe had been left uncapped. The situation 
had been difficult and stressful for her, so she felt she was entitled to compensation for the 
experience.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted fairly. She 
didnt think Aviva had provided Ms M with adequate customer service. From the 
information available, the investigator thought Avivas handling of the claim had 
caused Ms M more than the levels of disruption and inconvenience to be expected 
from a claim. Based on this, the investigator thought Aviva should pay Ms M £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva didnt respond to the investigators view by the date requested, so this 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Ms M.
The key issue in Ms Ms complaint is the handling and progress of her claim and the 
reinstatement work at her flat, in particular the refitting of the kitchen that was damaged in 
the flood from the neighbours property. Ms M is unhappy at the time taken for the work to be 
progressed, and being without a kitchen, particularly the time between the completion of 
drying of her flat to the time she complained to Aviva (August to October respectively, from 
the information Ive seen). Shes also unhappy at the loss of use of part of her flat from 
having to use it to store items from the kitchen, and that a gas pipe had been left uncapped. 
For their part, Aviva say the claim had been put on hold by Ms M and their understanding 
was that once she was ready for the refitting work to re-start she would contact P. They also 
say it was difficult to contact Ms M during the claim process and there were damp issues at 
the property that had to be rectified before the reinstatement work could commence. They 
dont feel they (or P) have done anything wrong and any delays werent down to them.
The information and evidence available to me in this case has been limited, to 
representations made by Ms M (including her letter of complaint to Aviva) and to the case 
notes and complaint notes from Aviva, which are also limited. Ive also considered the nature 
of the damage would always have meant disruption and inconvenience to Ms M. For 
example, the need to strip out the damaged kitchen and to put in place drying equipment to 
dry the property so that the refitting work could begin. The initial progress seems to have 
proceeded reasonably, up to the scheduled completion of drying at the end of July or 
beginning of August. 
Ms M and Aviva also have different views on their engagement during the process, with Ms 
M saying emails she sent werent responded to, while Aviva say they had difficulty speaking 
to her throughout the claim process. Without a detailed record of those contacts, its difficult 
to form a clear conclusion. 
Theres reference in Avivas case notes to Ms M putting the work on hold (with suggestions 
of her carrying out some additional, non-claim work). But from what I have seen, there is an 
acknowledgement from Aviva that contractors (which I take to mean P) could have been 
more proactive. Taken with what Ms M has told us, I think she has suffered from some 
distress and inconvenience up to the point of her complaint to Aviva (and their response). But 
I dont think its significant given the points made by Aviva, so I think a relatively small 
amount of compensation would be fair. In the circumstances of the case, I think £150 is 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Ms M £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Ms M accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman