DRN-2877170
The complaint
Mr H complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) unfairly restricted and later closed his account. And it 
returned his funds to source, and not back to him. 
To put things right, Mr H wants his account reinstated, an apology from Revolut, his money 
returned, and compensation for damages. 
What happened
On 1 October 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Hs account and messaged him about what it had 
done. Mr H contacted Revolut via its online chat service. 
Revolut explained it was in the process of reviewing Mr Hs account and it would give him 
further information when it had completed the review. 
Mr H continued to chase the matter up with Revolut via its chat service. Revolut continued to 
explain it was reviewing Mr Hs account and was doing so to adhere with its regulatory 
obligations. 
Revolut said it could not give Mr H a specific time frame when this would be completed.  
Later, Revolut required specific information about certain payments into Mr Hs account. 
Mr H said these were made to him by his flatmate for rent. Mr H couldnt give Revolut all the 
information it had asked for. Mr H continued to chase Revolut for an answer using the chat 
facility on a regular, often daily basis. 
Mr H also complained to Revolut about this matter. In its response, Revolut said its systems 
had flagged activity on Mr Hs account which led to the review. Unhappy with Revoluts 
answer to his complaint, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. 
On 15 November 2019, following a review of his account Revolut informed Mr H his account 
will be closed. Mr H was also told all remaining funds will be returned to source. Mr H was 
not happy with this. 
One of our investigators then looked into the matter, and in summary they said: 
Revolut has procedures in place for monitoring accounts and it has legal and 
regulatory obligations it must follow. And Revolut was permitted to carry out a review 
of Mr Hs account and restrict access to it while it did this. 
Revolut were entitled to close Mr Hs account in the same way he can end his 
customer relationship with it. And in doing so, Revolut followed its processes and the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
Revolut acted in line with any legal and regulatory obligations placed on it when 
returning the funds. Mr H would now need to contact the sender of the funds if he 
wants them back. 
Unhappy with what our investigator said, in summary, Mr H made the following points: 
He did provide proof of his funds, and his rental agreement, but Revolut were being 
difficult   
Revoluts staff gave him contrary information and its communication was poor. 
Mr Hs flatmate did receive the returned funds from Revolut, but he now wont pay 
him back
Revoluts actions are criminal, and it has stolen his money
Another of our investigators reiterated what the previous investigator had said. Unhappy 
with this, Mr H asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr H, so Ill explain why. 
Account restrictions
The investigator was right to point out Revolut has important legal and regulatory
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened.
To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account and/or restrict its
customers access. If Revolut didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious
sanction. In order to meet these requirements Revolut is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into
an account.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for Revolut to block Mr Hs account and ask him for information relating to activity on his
account. So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Mr H inconvenience, I cant say
Revolut treated him unfairly when it blocked his account - and asked him to provide
information.
Revoluts requests for information  
Mr H is clearly dissatisfied with the information Revolut asked him to provide as part of its 
review. Having looked through the online chat record, I note Mr H finds Revoluts request to 
be onerous and unreasonable. 
Having closely reviewed the evidence I have been sent, Im persuaded Revoluts requests 
were not unreasonable nor that it placed an unfair burden on Mr H. Revolut wanted to see 
specific proof of entitlement in the form of bank statements, bank transfer documents and a 
full rental agreement which would validate what Mr H was telling it about certain funds hed 
received.  
Mr H couldnt do this, saying he couldnt get other peoples documents and then saying his 
flatmate had refused. Mr H had initially said his wifes and his flatmates account were the same and they shared a sim card, and that the rental agreement was only verbal  but later 
provided a paper rental agreement albeit incomplete.
So, given the inconsistencies, I think Revolut had valid concerns leading it to ask Mr H for 
the information it did as part of its review. And, importantly, as Ive already said, Revolut has 
important regulatory and legal obligations to meet. 
So, I dont think Revolut has done anything wrong by asking for the type of information it has 
from Mr H.
Account closure
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr H decided to stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. 
Revolut can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Revolut have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Hs account. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. 
Revolut exercised their right to no longer offer Mr H banking facilities and I've seen nothing 
to suggest that Revolut has made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do 
anything differently. 
The return of funds 
Revolut are entitled to return any remaining funds in an account to the original source. This 
ensures the funds are sent back to the correct person. Thats especially relevant in Mr Hs 
case as he couldnt provide Revolut with the documentation it asked for when reviewing his 
account. 
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it was 
a difficult and worrying time. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Revolut have 
acted unreasonably. So, Im not going to ask Revolut to do anything.
Lastly, Mr H says his flatmate wont pay him back. But thats a dispute between the two of 
them. Nor is it a dispute I have any power to determine.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ombudsman