DRN-2373567
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) recorded adverse
information about him on his credit file after Barclaycard says he made two late payments
and missed one payment towards his credit card.
To resolve things Mr R would like his credit file amended.
What happened
A copy of Mr Rs credit file hasnt been made available to me, but it appears to be accepted
by both parties that late payment markers were recorded against Mr R for paying his
September and October 2015 payments late. And a missed payment was recorded for his
November 2015 payment.
Mr R has told us he had problems with the credit card payments as he was abroad looking
after a sick relative. Mr R says he has not had any problems with his payments since then,
but has said the impact on his credit file meant he was declined for a mortgage.
After the mortgage application was declined Mr R complained to Barclays. Barclays
considered the complaint and said the information had been recorded correctly on Mr Rs
credit file so Mr R brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator concluded Mr Rs complaint should not be upheld as Barclays had acted
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs credit card. The investigator also
explained Barclays had a requirement to accurately report how a customer conducted their
account.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He said Barclays were behaving unfairly for such a
small amount which was now significantly affecting his credit history and his ability to apply
for a mortgage.
Further information was requested from Barclays and Mr R. Barclays was able to provide
some more detail around their contact with Mr R during the months in question. And Mr R 
was asked to provide some detail and any evidence about his time abroad. However, Mr R 
didnt provide any further information so I issued my provisional findings to both parties. 
Below is a copy of my provisional findings. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same
outcome as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr R paid his September and October 2015 credit card payments late.
Or that he missed his November 2015 payment. So what I have to consider is, given the
circumstances of this complaint, was it fair for Barclays to record this information against Mr
R on his credit file. Taking everything into account I think that it was, and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account (provided to us by Barclays) explain the
minimum payment should arrive by the due date every month. And that a missed payment
may affect a customers records with credit reference agencies, therefore making it
potentially harder or more expensive to borrow in the future. Barclays also has an obligation
to accurately report how a customer is conducting their account, so it would be reasonable
for Barclays to report a missed payment or late payment.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about being abroad and looking after a relative who was
unwell, to see how this may have affected things for him. Im sorry to hear that Mr R was
experiencing such personal difficulties. However, while Im mindful of Mr Rs submissions,
from what Ive seen there is not enough for me to say Barclays have acted unfairly.
Barclays have said Mr R was set up to receive paperless statements  so he wouldve had
access to these from abroad which showed the payments due. The payments were due on
21 September 2015 and 19 October 2015 and records show Barclays emailed payment
reminders prior to these dates. I can also see that because of the missed payment on 21
September 2015, an email was sent to Mr R on 24 September 2015 and a letter issued on
28 September 2015.
Barclays records go on to show Mr R spoke with Barclays on 5 October 2015 and 22
October 2015 to make payments towards the account. Barclays has told us that during the
calls there is no mention of Mr R being abroad or of anyone being unwell. And on both
occasions Mr R had suggested the problem with the payments had been to do with the direct
debit and his bank. Barclays also say that on 5 October 2015 Mr R had been prompted to
call because of Barclays communications to him. Its therefore difficult to say Mr R was
unaware of the payment problems or that he was unaware the payments were due.
For similar reasons its also difficult to say Mr R would have been unaware of the issues with
the November 2015 payment  particularly given the problems hed already been
experiencing. Records again show an email reminder for the November payment was issued
before it was due, and Mr R would have been able to access his statements online to check
payment had been made.
Mr R hasnt provided us with the dates he was abroad or any evidence to support the trip
abroad, but its clear from the copy statements that transactions during November, when
there was a missed payment, were being made in the UK. Again, this makes it difficult to say
Mr R was struggling with making his payments because he wasnt in the country as he has
suggested.
Im aware Mr R has said the problems with these payments led to his mortgage application
being declined. But Ive not looked into Mr Rs mortgage application as this complaint is
about how Barclays have recorded the payment history for Mr Rs Barclaycard and I dont
think theyve recorded things unfairly for Mr R.
Overall, I dont think it was unfair of Barclays to report the problems with the payments to the
credit reference agencies. And theres not enough evidence to suggest Mr R was abroad
and unaware the payments were due, or unaware there were any problems with the
payments. I therefore think Barclays have acted fairly in the circumstances and I dont
uphold Mr Rs complaint.Responses to my provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to let me know if any part of my 
understanding of events  as set out above  was incorrect. And to let me have any further 
evidence or submissions they would like me to consider. 
Both Mr R and Barclays were made aware of my provisional findings and neither party 
provided me with anything more to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R and Barclays have not presented me with any further submissions or evidence to 
consider, I see no reason to alter my findings as set out in my provisional decision. That is, I 
think Mr R was more likely than not aware of the payments which were due and that he 
knew there were problems with the payments. And in the circumstances of this case, I 
therefore think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to report the late/ missed payments to 
the credit reference agencies.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman