DRN-2961589
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs C payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage, which 
started in 2001.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mrs C has said the PPI was added without her knowledge. She says she was asked how 
she would pay the mortgage if she were to lose her income, and she was asked to sign the 
form to apply for PPI. She says she wasnt told the PPI was optional and she felt pressured 
to take it. 
Im conscious that this all happened over 20 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt recall in detail everything that happened that long ago. This means it might 
be unfair for me to rely only on what they now remember happening. I would really need 
some supporting evidence to show that the PPI wasnt presented as optional, or that undue 
pressure was put on Mrs C. 
The documents themselves dont suggest that the PPI was presented as compulsory. Also, 
the mortgage application form says we recommend that you consider PPI, and there is a 
separate application form for PPI. This would imply that the PPI is something separate to the 
mortgage, and that it was possible for the PPI application to be turned down by the insurer 
(for example on grounds of eligibility) even if the mortgage went ahead.
On the issue of whether the bank adviser put too much pressure on Mrs C, I also have a 
problem about evidence. I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in 
which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an 
insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the 
policy is actually something worth having and it is clear the customer has a choice. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. 
But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Bank of 
Scotland did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of it. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs C, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Cs 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs C was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs C received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs C would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she had for paying the mortgage 
and other continuing living costs. This all would have put Mrs C in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs C couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And she could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs C is 
likely to have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs C to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming she understood she had a choice, 
which I accept she is saying wasnt the case).
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained all the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether or not Mrs C took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, 
its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Overall, Ive not found that this PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman