DRN-4101801
The complaint
Ms S complains she was mis-sold a Life and Critical Illness cover policy when she took out a 
mortgage product with Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Halifax). 
What happened
Ms S took out a mortgage product with Halifax in 2008. At that time, she was also sold a 
Total Mortgage Protection plan, encompassing term assured Life and Critical Illness cover, 
on an advised basis. The cover was based on the full amount of Ms Ss mortgage, and was 
designed to pay a lump sum if she passed away or was diagnosed with a critical illness, 
during the life of the policy. 
Ms S said she became unable to work due to ill health and in 2017 she was fully medically 
retired.  She said she attempted to make a claim against her policy, but was told there was 
no cover for her circumstances. In 2023, Ms S made a complaint to Halifax, as she felt her 
policy had been mis-sold. 
Ms S said she took out the life and critical illness cover as this was recommended to her 
when she re-mortgaged her property. She said she had been specifically sold the policy on 
the basis that she had recently been off work due to ill health at the time, and said she was 
told the policy would pay out if she was unable to work at all and couldnt pay her mortgage. 
Ms S said she agreed she didnt need mortgage payment protection for sickness, as she 
would receive six months sick pay via her employer. 
Ms S said she had another policy in place, providing similar cover, before she took out the 
policy with Halifax. The Halifax policy was set up to provide cover for the total amount of the 
mortgage. However Ms S said this left her over-insured, as she already had a policy 
providing cover for the value of her original mortgage, so she only needed a top up for the 
increase when she re-mortgaged. She also said she expected the policy to pay out if she 
was no longer able to work due to mental ill health.
Halifax has provided copies of the welcome pack which was sent to Ms S at the time of the 
sale. It contained the policy schedule which stated the total critical illness and life cover 
benefits to be £54,000 and showed how this would decrease over the term. And it was 
shown that Ms S had not taken out mortgage repayment cover for disability and 
unemployment. 
The policy schedule within the welcome pack gave further detail on the level of cover Ms S 
had taken as being decreasing term life and critical illness cover to run until 2028, and 
showed the mortgage repayment cover benefit to be £0.00, as this had not been taken.  
A key facts policy summary was also provided. This stated the benefits of the critical illness 
cover, and set out the following limitations. 
This plan covers 14 critical illness conditions. The main illnesses covered are 
cancer, heart attack and stroke. Some limitations in cover apply for each of these 
illnesses should you need to submit a claim, for example, not call cancers are 
covered and mini strokes are not covered. Please read our booklet Critical Illness 
Cover  A guide to the critical illness protection available under Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan for fill details of the critical illnesses covered. 
Halifax has shown it also sent a copy of the full terms and conditions of the policy and on 
page 16, all of the conditions covered under the critical illness section of the policy are listed, 
plus a definition of Total permanent disability which is also covered under that section of 
the policy. 
A copy of the demands and needs form completed at the time of the sale was also included 
in the documentation sent to Ms S. It indicates that no other cover was already in place to 
protect Ms Ss mortgage - £0.00 is shown in the relevant sections for existing life and critical 
illness cover. And it shows Ms S was asked about cover for disability  accident and 
sickness and had said it wasnt needed.
Based on what you have told me you do not appear to have a need for disability 
(accident and sickness) cover. Do you agree? Yes 
And, Halifax has supplied a screenshot from one of its systems which states the following: 
customer refused mrc as she feels sufficient cover through work. recommended 
£54000 in life and critical illness accepted the quote as cancelled exist plan 
elsewhere. 
Halifax said it had reviewed the records available from the time of the sale, and thought its 
recommendation had been appropriate based on the demands and needs Ms S had 
expressed at the time. It said there was a note in its records that Ms S had another policy, 
but this was to be cancelled. And it said it had sent Ms S a welcome pack with all of the 
details of the policy she had agreed to take out, and said it thought she should have raised 
queries at the time, if the cover wasnt what she wanted or needed. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think the policy has been mis-sold. 
Halifax made no comment on the investigators view. However Ms S disagreed. In summary 
she said: 
she thought she could trust her bank and the advice it gave her;
she didnt need cover for the full amount of her mortgage as she had another policy 
in place;
she did not agree to cancel the other policy she had in place, and couldnt afford to 
pay for extra cover she didnt need;
she was led to believe the policy would pay out if she was unable to work due to 
mental ill health;
when she tried to make a claim she was told she didnt meet the criteria, whereas as 
the point of sale she was told she would be covered;
As Ms S asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Halifax provided advice, it had a 
responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms S when it sold it to her. This 
means it had a duty to consider Ms Ss individual needs and circumstances, and based on 
this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for her. Halifax 
also needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way. 
Having considered this, together with all of the evidence provided, I dont think Halifax has 
acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Ms Ss mortgage product was also provided by Halifax. And Im satisfied the 
mortgage documents stated that insurance did not have to be purchased as a condition of 
the offer.
Ive reviewed evidence from the time of the mortgage protection policy sale in 2008. And Ive 
considered whether I think the recommendations Halifax made were appropriate based on 
the demands and needs Ms S had set out at the time. 
The demands and needs document showed Ms S had declined sickness and unemployment 
benefits. And this is in line with what Ms S has said about not requiring mortgage repayment 
cover for periods of sickness, due to the benefits she had with her employer at the time. The 
document doesnt show any evidence of Ms S already having any other cover in place in 
relation to her mortgage. And the screenshot from Halifaxs system reflects it was told Ms S 
had existing cover which had been cancelled. 
However Ms S did not cancel the other cover she already had in place for her mortgage and 
has said she didnt tell Halifax she would be cancelling it. Shes said due to her financial 
situation at the time, she wouldnt have chosen to pay for two policies if she didnt need them 
both and would have been over-insured. 
Whilst I dont dispute what Ms S recalls about the sale, I have to keep in mind that this took 
place in 2008 and memories can fade over long periods of time. Ive thought about there 
being no reference to the existing cover Ms S had within the sales documentation and 
welcome pack. And the note on Halifaxs system records reflecting that there was cover 
elsewhere which had been cancelled. This persuades me that its most likely Ms S had told 
Halifax about the cover she already had in place, and Halifax was of the understanding it 
had been or would be cancelled. 
Ms S has said her existing policy with another provider covered a lower amount, based on 
her original mortgage, so she believes the cover level of £54,000 was too high. However, 
based on the evidence above indicating there was no other cover in place, I dont think 
Halifaxs recommendation of life and critical illness cover aligned to the full amount of Ms Ss 
increased mortgage, was unsuitable. 
Ms S has also said she wanted to be covered if she was unable to work due to mental ill 
health. As Ive explained above, the documentation shows Ms S had declined disability 
cover for absence and sickness, as she had benefits with her employer, and she has agreed 
this was correct. I understand Ms S retired early from her job due to a mental health 
condition, and she expected to be covered for this. The policy provides critical illness cover for a specific list of conditions. This doesnt include any mental health conditions. There is 
provision for Permanent total disability within the cover, however Ms S has said the insurer 
told her she did not meet the criteria to receive the policy benefit. Ive considered again the 
demands and needs documents, but Ive not found any reference to Ms S having stipulated 
that she wanted to be covered in respect of any specific mental health conditions. 
Ive noted that Ms S has said she recalls the adviser recommending she took out cover to 
protect her in the event that she was unable to work due to mental ill health, as at the time 
Ms S had been off work for the same reason. Based on the documents Ive seen, there is no 
mention of this, however mortgage repayment cover was recommended to Ms S. And having 
reviewed the terms of this cover, I can see the policy could provide benefits equivalent to as 
many as 12 monthly mortgage payments if the policyholder was unable to work due to a 
psychological illness and was under the care of a specialist. But as Ive previously explained, 
Ms S declined the mortgage repayment cover at the time and said she had sickness benefits 
in place with her employer. 
Based on the above evidence, Ive not been persuaded Ms S had stipulated a need for cover 
in respect of a specific mental health condition, or that Halifax advised her that the policy it 
recommended would provide this. 
Having listened to the calls between Ms S and Halifax earlier this year, I note Ms S had said 
she didnt recall reading through the documentation in the welcome pack, and that she 
trusted that she had been recommended the right product. Whilst I do understand Ms Ss 
position here, receiving the welcome pack was her opportunity to check that the cover she 
had been sold matched with what she had asked for. The documents quite clearly show the 
cover to be for £54,000 and I think its reasonable to expect that if that wasnt correct, Ms S 
would have queried this at the time. 
Im satisfied the policy details were presented clearly within the welcome pack, as was Ms 
Ss right to cancel within the 30 day cooling off period, if she was unhappy with the policy 
she had taken out. 
In summary I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Ms S. I think it was a suitable 
recommendation for her in relation to her known circumstances at the time of the sale. And 
because of this, I wont be asking Halifax to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman