DRN-4316777
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. He paid a deposit of £8,000 and the agreement was for £23,495 over 37 months; 
with 36 monthly payments of £361.48 and a final payment of £15,677.49. At the time of 
supply the car was around four and a half years old and had done around 39,967 miles.
Mr S says that, in early January 2023, the car started to make a clunking noise. He 
contacted the supplying dealership, but they had gone into liquidation. So, on 4 January 
2023, he had the car inspected by a manufacturers main dealership. And they said there 
was an issue with the timing chain that was causing a metal build up in the oil filter.
The manufacturers dealership ordered the parts, and, on 31 March 2023, they replaced the 
timing chain tensioners at the cost of £659.16. However, this didnt fix the problem, and, on 4 
April 2023, they refunded Mr S the costs of the repair.
Mr S complained to Santander about the issues with the car. But they said that, because the 
car had had an unauthorised third-party repair, they were unable to uphold his complaint. 
And they didnt think they could be held responsible for any issues that arose after a third-
party repair had been completed. Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said they were satisfied there was a fault with the car, and that an attempted 
repair has failed. But they didnt think the repairs being carried out by a main dealership had 
any bearing on the matter  Mr S had tried to take the car back to the supplying dealership, 
but they were no longer trading; and there was nothing in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) that means Santanders obligations cease as a result. Whats more, they said that 
the fault had presented itself before the third-party repair, so Santanders comments about 
liability for issues arising after a third-party repair arent relevant in this case.
The investigator spoke to the main dealer, who said they suspected a catastrophic engine 
failure was imminent. And the investigator didnt think this was reasonable in a car that was 
less than five years old, and which had done less than 45,000 miles. So, they said that the 
car wasnt sufficiently durable, and this made it of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. And they didnt think the contaminated oil was the cause of the issue, as the 
supplying dealership had serviced the car just before it was supplied to Mr S, and this 
wouldve entailed changing both the oil and oil filter.
Because thered already been a failed attempt to repair the car, albeit by the manufacturers 
dealership as the supplying dealership were no longer trading, the investigator said Mr S 
should now be allowed to reject the car. And they said Santander should refund the deposit 
he paid, plus statutory interest, and pay Mr S an additional £150 for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused.
Mr S agreed with the investigator. Santander said they wanted to provide comments but, 
despite being given the opportunity to do so, no comments have been made. Given this, the 
matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Santander are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr S to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Ive seen the car was supplied to Mr S with a full service history, with the last service being 
carried out by the supplying dealership on 22 June 2022. And the service document clearly 
states that the oil and oil filter were changed. The MOT record shows the milage on the car 
as 39,967 miles on 7 July 2022, around two-weeks before Mr S took possession of it. So, its 
fair to conclude that the car was supplied to Mr S with around 40,000 miles on the clock.
Its not disputed that the supplying dealership went into liquidation so, when Mr S started to 
have problems with the car, he wasnt able to take the car back to them for inspection and 
repair. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr S acted reasonably by taking the car to a 
manufacturers main dealer instead.
From what Ive seen, the manufacturers dealership inspected the car on 4 January 2023, 
and they suspected an issue with the timing chain. So, Im satisfied that there was an issue 
with the car that developed within the first six months of supply. And the CRA implies its for 
Santander to show this fault wasnt present or developing at the point of supply. Which they 
havent done so.The manufacturers dealership has explained there was a heavy metal build up in [the] oil 
filter. But, if the supplying dealership serviced the car on 22 June 2022, and this service 
included changing the oil and oil filter, then this metal build up mustve happened between 
when the car was supplied to Mr S in late-July 2022, and when the car was inspected in 
early-January 2023.
At the point of the inspection in January 2023, the car had done around 3,500 miles since it 
was supplied to Mr S. And the car was less than five years old at the time. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect a car thats less than five years old, thats done less than 45,000 miles, 
and that has a full service history, to be having major issues with the timing chain to the point 
where the oil is badly contaminated with metal fragments within six months of a service.
Given that a timing chain would be expected to last for twice the mileage the car had done, 
Im satisfied that it wasnt sufficiently durable. And this makes the car not of a satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. So, Im also satisfied that Santander should do something to 
put things right.
Putting things right
Where goods supplied werent of a satisfactory quality, the CRA allows for one chance at 
repair. In this instance, the repair was carried out by a manufacturers main dealership due 
to the supplying dealership no longer trading. And Ive already explained why I think this was 
acceptable. And its not disputed this repair failed, with the manufacturers dealership 
explaining they couldnt fix the issue and have refunded Mr S the costs of repair as a result. 
They also explained why they thought that catastrophic engine failure was imminent.
When they considered Mr Ss complaint, Santander chose not to either inspect the car, or to 
attempt a further repair. As such, even if they disagree that the one chance at repair has 
already taken place, theyve declined the opportunity to undertake this chance. Because of 
this, Im satisfied that Mr S should now be allowed to reject the car.
Mr S has continued to keep the car, and its been available for his use. As such, I think its 
only fair that he pays for this. So, I wont be asking Santander to refund any of the payments 
hes made. However, its clear that Mr S has been inconvenienced by having to arrange for 
the car to be repaired, and by this repair being unsuccessful. So, I think Santander should 
compensate him for this. The investigator had recommended Santander pay him £150, 
which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see 
no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, Santander should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ss credit file;
refund the £8,000 deposit Mr S paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr S made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr S an additional £150 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. 
And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman