DRN-4422786
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the level of information she was provided by esure Insurance 
Limited (esure) about burglar alarm requirements under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K took out a policy with esure. A while later, Ms K was reviewing the documents and 
found a requirement for a burglar alarm that alerted the police, which she didnt have. She 
raised this with esure. When esure sent the renewal documents, these also had this 
requirement. Ms K continued to try and resolve the issue with esure. However, about a week 
before the policy was due to renew, esure said it wouldnt be able to renew the policy, as it 
didnt offer cover in Ms Ks circumstances. So, Ms K had to find a new policy before her 
esure policy expired.
Ms K complained to esure and confirmed she didnt want the policy to renew. She also 
requested transcripts of phone calls to esure to see what she had been asked, as she didnt 
think she had been told about the alarm requirements. She was also concerned about how 
the cancellation might have been recorded.
esure partially responded to the complaint. It confirmed it would cancel the policy renewal, 
provide a refund and there would be no charges. But said it would forward some details to a 
senior complaints handler, including the request for call transcripts
Ms K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said the 
alarm requirements were clear in the documents. esure had also agreed to honour the 
remaining period of the policy up to the renewal date, which was fair. It also seemed to have 
cancelled the policy as though it had been at Ms Ks request. However, it had cancelled the 
policy quite late and hadnt provided evidence of what was discussed in the calls, as 
requested by Ms K. So, she said esure should pay Ms K £100 compensation because it had 
caused her distress and inconvenience by not properly addressing her concerns in full.
As esure didnt respond, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy documents. These explained the requirement to check the policy 
documents carefully and, in my view, clearly explained the burglar alarm requirements. 
When Ms K later read this wording, she contacted esure because she didnt have the type of 
alarm set-up required, including it alerting the police.
Ms K has said she didnt think she had been asked about this when she had spoken to esure 
about the policy, which is why she wanted to know specifically what was discussed in the 
calls. From what I can see, when esure responded to the complaint, it escalated that issue to 
a more senior person to consider. However, I havent seen evidence it then responded to 
this issue. It also didnt provide this service with evidence of what was discussed. So, in my 
view, Im unable to say esure asked the correct questions and recorded the information 
accurately when it discussed the policy with her.
esure later told Ms K it wouldnt be able to renew the policy. It said it would allow the policy 
to run to renewal date and refunded the payment and without any cancellation charges, 
which I think was fair. However, it did this not long before the policy was due to renew and a 
couple of months after Ms K first raised her concerns about the wording of the policy. So, I 
think this caused Ms K some unnecessary inconvenience.
Ms K was also concerned about how esure recorded the policy cancellation in case it looked 
like esure had cancelled the policy, which would need to be declared to other insurers. When 
esure responded to the complaint, it said it had cancelled the renewal for Ms K, would refund 
the full premiums and there would be no charges. So, from what Ive seen esure cancelled 
the policy as though it was at the request of Ms K and the actions it described to Ms K were 
in line with this. I havent seen any evidence esure recorded the cancellation in a way that 
would have a negative impact on Ms K or that it needs to do anything further in relation to 
this part of the complaint.
Looking at the full circumstances of this complaint, I think esure could have responded to Ms 
Ks concerns more fully and caused her distress and concern by not doing so. As a result, I 
think esure should pay Ms K £100 compensation to recognise this. 
Putting things right
esure should pay Ms K £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to pay Ms K £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman