DRN-1594073
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed her account and registered a default 
on her credit file.
What happened
Miss H says Lloyds acted unfairly by closing her student account whilst she was still a 
student. She accepts that she stopped using the account when it reached its overdraft limit 
and told Lloyds she would repay the debt when she started work. And Lloyds was happy 
with that arrangement. Miss H says she continued to receive calls and letters from Lloyds 
but says she was told she could repay the debt a year after graduating. She says Lloyds 
closed the account and passed it to a debt collecting business and has registered a default 
on her credit file. Miss H says Lloyds actions have caused stress and  this was an innocent 
mistake.
Lloyds says an overdraft is re-payable on demand and hasn't made a mistake. It says it 
closed the account on 13 February 2019 with an outstanding balance of just under £1,500 
and says the last credit was in January 2018. Lloyds says it wrote to Miss H about her 
account  in June and July 2018 telling her the overdraft would be removed unless she made 
contact with it. It says it also e-mailed the letters to Miss H which she read and says it wrote 
to her again in November 2018 telling her the account would be closed and a default 
registered.
Miss H brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Lloyds had told her on numerous occasions that she needed to contact it and that it 
was planning on closing the account. The investigator thought Miss H had made contact with 
Lloyds on 6 December 2018 and a month breathing space was agreed but a repayment plan 
couldn't be set up. The investigator didn't think Lloyds had made a mistake and was obliged 
to provide accurate information  the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's).
Miss H doesn't accept that view and in summary says she was told by her local branch there 
was a problem and was advised to bring her complaint to us. She doesn't accept receiving 
half of the letters Lloyds says it sent her and says she told it on numerous occasions she 
could set up a plan from July 2019 on graduation. Miss H says she didn't ignore what was 
going on but accepts reading the online letters. She would like the default removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise that Miss H will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what's taken 
place.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions, which I can see Miss H has also looked at, and would have agreed to when the account was opened. I can see those terms and 
conditions make clear that an overdraft is repayable on demand and is there as a "short term 
safety net". So I don't think Lloyds made a mistake by asking Miss H to repay the overdraft in 
circumstances where I am satisfied that it asked Miss H on a number of occasions to make 
contact with it. I can see that Lloyds wrote to Miss H and sent her online messages, which 
she accepts reading and which Lloyds also confirms were read. I'm satisfied that it ought to 
have been clear to Miss H that Lloyds was concerned about the account as it hadn't been 
used in some time and that it was considering removing the overdraft facility.
I have looked at Lloyds records and can see that according to those records Miss H first 
made contact with Lloyds on 23 August 2018. I think it likely that contact was prompted by 
Lloyds letters in June and July 2018, and the record of the call says Miss H called about 
paying money into the account but the line disconnected. So I think it likely Miss H did call 
Lloyds and was aware of the contents of the letters she had received and knew she needed 
to pay money into the account. It's not clear why the call disconnected but I would have 
expected Miss H to have called Lloyds back as I think the onus was on her to pay money 
into the  account that hadn't been used at that stage for about six months.
I'm satisfied that Lloyds continued to  write to Miss H and in November 2018 told her that it 
would be closing her account and registering a default on her credit file. I think Miss H ought 
reasonably to have realised the position she was in, that there was a significant risk of a 
default and that an agreement hadn't been reached with Lloyds.
Miss H spoke to Lloyds on 6 December 2018. I would like to have listened to that call as 
there is disagreement about its content but it's not available. I can see that Miss H disputes 
that she told Lloyds she would be in work by January 2019 and so able to repay the 
overdraft. I accept that it's unlikely she told Lloyds that, as I accept she would have known 
her graduation date was in July 2019. But I have looked at Lloyds note of that call and it says 
a breathing space of a month would be applied and that Miss H may be receiving a student 
loan in January 2019. So I think on balance Lloyds did agree a short term breathing space 
but I don't think it agreed to place the account on hold until Miss H graduated. I have made it 
clear that I think Miss H ought to have realised this was a problem that wasn't going away 
but I don't think she engaged with Lloyds as she ought to have.
I'm satisfied that banks and building societies have a duty to accurately report the position of 
customers accounts to the CRA's. I find that is what happened here. I'm satisfied the 
relationship between Miss H and Lloyds had broken down, and so I don't think Lloyds made 
a mistake or acted unfairly by registering a default on her credit file.
I appreciate Miss H questions why she would be told to bring her complaint to us if Lloyds 
didn't make a mistake. I don't think it matters what the branch thought as I'm satisfied, for the 
reasons I have explained, that Lloyds was entitled in these circumstances to ask for the 
repayment of the overdraft. I also appreciate that Miss H says she didn't receive half of the 
letters Lloyds sent her. I can't hold Lloyds fairly responsible for that but I have made it clear 
that Miss H ought to have been aware of what was going on as she did receive and read the 
letters available via online banking and in any event she ought reasonably to have been 
aware that she owed Lloyds money and that it wanted it repaid.
Overall I appreciate Miss H's concerns about the default. But I don't think Lloyd acted 
unfairly or made a mistake by registering it, and so I can't fairly order it be removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman