DRN-2527356
The complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy following curtailment of his trip. Reference to IPA includes reference to its 
agents.
What happened
On 8 October 2018, Mr S left the UK for a holiday in the USA. His intended return date at the 
outset was 22 October 2018.
On 12 October 2018, Mr S bought an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy. The cover 
started on 15 October 2018.
On 16 October 2018, Mr S had an accident whilst cycling. He sought emergency medical 
care. The hospital diagnosed a left collarbone fracture; left knee/thigh/elbow bruises and 
multiple superficial abrasions. The treating overseas doctor recommended ice, elevation, 
non-weight bearing on the left upper side and that Mr S should wear a shoulder 
immobiliser as much as possible. Mr S was prescribed painkillers. I refer in more detail 
below to the report of the treating overseas doctor.
Mr S contacted IPA and asked that it cover curtailment of his holiday. IPA asked Mr S to 
provide a medical report. Mr S thought that would take too long. He curtailed his trip and flew 
back to the UK.
On 18 October 2018, Mr S went to A&E in the UK. A&E confirmed the diagnosis. It didnt 
give Mr S any treatment but said that follow up should be in orthopaedics.
IPA referred the matter to its chief medical officer who said that there were no medical 
indications for curtailment. On 20 October 2018, IPA told Mr S that its medical team said it 
wasnt medically necessary, so it wouldnt pay for curtailment costs.
Mr S saw the orthopaedic team in the UK hospital on or around 22 October 2018 and had 
surgery on 29 October 2018.
In November 2018, IPA received a medical report from the treating hospital and maintained 
its position that curtailment wasnt medically necessary. IPA confirmed cover for medical 
expenses whilst abroad but declined Mr S claim in relation to curtailment.
Mr S says that he was in a lot of pain and had limited capacity to care for himself and 
continue his trip. He says that he was on his own and couldnt drive safely. Mr S says that 
he was due to fly back to the UK in the evening of 22 October 2018 and wouldnt arrive 
home until 23 October 2018, so the earliest he could see his GP would have been           
23 October 2018, seven days after he received treatment in the USA and beyond the three 
to five days recommended by the treating doctor.
Mr S says that he bought two flights to get back to return home early for medical 
treatment. He says that he lost a hotel booking and unused days of car rental. Mr S wants 
IPA to deal with his claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that IPA had treated 
Mr S fairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that whilst Mr S hadnt received 
authorisation to curtail his trip from IPA, hed been advised by the treating doctor overseas 
to see his doctor within three to five working days and to get a referral to orthopaedics as 
soon as possible. She said that Mr S went to A&E promptly when he returned to the UK. 
The investigator relied on the claim form completed by Mr S GP.
The investigator said that Mr S was driving on his trip and couldnt have driven easily with 
his injuries. She said that it was reasonable to consider that it would have cost IPA 
considerably more if Mr S had received further treatment in the USA.
The investigator thought that it was fair and reasonable for IPA to deal with Mr S claim for 
curtailment of his trip.
IPA didnt agree with the investigator. It maintained its view that it wasnt medically 
necessary for Mr S to curtail his trip. IPA said that Mr S curtailed his trip before it had 
received, reviewed and confirmed any medical information. It said that its chief medical 
officer reviewed the medical report which didnt advise Mr S to return home early, so Mr S 
could have travelled home on his original return flight.
IPA said that the recommendation from the treating doctor was that Mr S should see his 
doctor within three to five days and get a referral to orthopaedics as soon as possible. It 
said that Mr S original return flight was within that recommendation. IPA said that in the four 
days that Mr S would have been on his trip if he hadnt returned home early, there was no 
further medical treatment given. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr S complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
Curtailment
We will pay you up to £1,500 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel 
and accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed before completion as 
a result of any of the following events:
1. The [] bodily injury [] of:
a) you
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You must get (at your own expense) a medical certificate from a medical 
practitioner and the prior approval of the Emergency Assistance Service to 
confirm the necessity to return home prior to curtailment of the trip due to [] 
bodily injury [].
Claims evidenceWe will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
A medical certificate from the treating medical practitioner [] explaining 
why it was necessary for you to cancel or curtail the trip [].
Medically necessary
-means reasonable and essential medical services and supplies, ordered by a medical 
practitioner exercising prudent clinical judgement, needed to diagnose or treat an 
illness, bodily injury, medical condition or its symptoms and that meet generally 
accepted standards of medical practice.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr S complaint because I dont think that IPA treated him unfairly 
in declining his claim. I say that because:
I dont think that its unreasonable for IPA to require medical evidence 
before deciding whether its medically necessary to curtail a trip.
In the circumstances that arose here, Mr S was required to provide IPA 
with a medical certificate from the treating medical practitioner showing why 
curtailment was necessary and obtain prior approval from IPAs agents.
Mr S indicated that he thought it would take too long to get a medical 
report from the treating doctor. So, IPA referred the information it had to its 
chief medical officer. Thats what wed expect it to do. The chief medical 
officer said that there were no medical indications for curtailment. I think 
that IPA was entitled to rely on the opinion of its medical advisers.
When IPA received the medical report from the treating doctor, it reviewed 
it and maintained its position. I dont think that it acted unfairly in doing so. 
Thats because in that report, the treating doctor noted that Mr S doctor 
was in the UK and that he had a return trip to the UK on 22 October 2018. 
The treating doctor said that there was no evidence of any emergency need 
for repair, but that Mr S was likely to need surgical repair when he returned 
home. So, it seems from the report that Mr S didnt need emergency 
medical intervention and that the treating doctor was content for him to 
seek treatment after he returned home on his planned departure date.
The Follow Up section of the report said that Mr S should see his GP 
within three to five days for a re-check and a referral to orthopaedics as 
soon as possible. I dont think that overrides the conclusions the treating 
doctor came to earlier in the report. I think the treating doctors reference to 
three to five days may have been an error as it doesnt follow logically from 
what he or she said earlier in the report. Theres nothing else in the report 
to indicate that Mr S must return urgently to the UK and see his GP. In any 
event, Mr S GP wouldnt perform the surgery. I think that, taken as a 
whole, the treating doctors report says that Mr S should see his GP as 
soon as he could on his planned return for a referral to orthopaedics.
I can quite understand why Mr S wanted to return home early and Ive 
noted what he says about the difficulties hed face in continuing his trip. But Mr S policy doesnt provide cover for loss of enjoyment or disinclination to 
continue his trip. It provides cover for curtailment when theres medical 
evidence to show that it was medically necessary to return home. Theres 
no such evidence here. Theres no medical evidence suggesting that Mr S 
couldnt drive or look after himself.
In the medical report dated 14 January 2019, Mr S GP certified that Mr S 
was compelled to cancel his travel arrangement solely and exclusively due 
to the fracture of his left collarbone. That report was written almost three 
months after the date of Mr S injury. Obviously, Mr S GP wasnt present 
when Mr S initially received treatment for his injuries, so he isnt best 
placed to say that Mr S had to curtail his trip because of his injuries. I think 
that IPA acted fairly in relying on the advice of its own chief medical officer 
and on the report of the treating doctor in the USA, rather than on Mr S 
GPs later report.
Ive looked at the medical evidence that Mr S has provided in relation to 
his medical treatment in the UK on his return. Mr S received no treatment 
when he went to A&E in the UK on 18 October 2018. And theres nothing to 
indicate that on his subsequent visit to the orthopaedic team he was 
referred urgently for surgery. Thats in line with the approach taken by the 
treating doctor in the USA.
I dont think its persuasive to say that the claim may have cost IPA more if 
Mr S had remained in the USA and received treatment there, rather than 
return to the UK early. Thats because, based on what Ive seen, there was 
no medical reason for Mr S to receive any further treatment in the USA in 
any event, even if hed remained there until his planned departure date.
Considering everything, I dont think that IPA treated Mr S unfairly in 
declining his claim for curtailment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr S and IPA confirmed that they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S nor IPA have provided anything further in relation to the complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
For the reason set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont think that IPA treated   
Mr S unfairly in declining his claim for curtailment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman