DRN-4415633
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd, trading as Blue Motor Finance (BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed almost 82,500 miles.
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
Miss B complained about problems with the car almost as soon as she took receipt of it. 
When the dealership looked at the car about three weeks after it was supplied to Miss B, 
their technicians comments say that there was a fault code identified and a new Exhaust 
Gas Recirculation temperature sensor would need to be ordered and fitted. I dont think that 
was the sort of problem that could be expected on a car of this age and mileage so soon 
after it was supplied.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a fault that was present at 
the point of supply. I think the business, therefore, had that opportunity in April 2023. 
But the problem persisted. In June 2023 a further report suggested the EGR valve needed to 
be replaced along with associated pipework.
The dealership say that Miss B authorised a subsequent repair when she left the car with 
them on 4 August 2023. The relevant legislation says that repairs should be carried out 
within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. I dont think 
it was reasonable to keep Miss B waiting until 9 September 2023 for a further repair. So, I 
think BMF should now allow her to reject the car.
And, even if Im wrong about that, BMFs case notes show that Miss B had asked to reject 
the car on 3 August 2023 before the dealership say it was left with them. I think they should 
have allowed the car to be rejected at that point.
Putting things right
BMF should collect the car at no cost to Miss B and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Miss B has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had, for instance, to take the car 
back to the dealership on several occasions and shes had to escalate her complaint to this 
Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. Shes also explained the impact this 
issue has had on her mental health and the stress it has put on her finances. In those 
circumstances BMF should pay her £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced.
The mileage records suggest Miss B has had reasonable use of the car while shes been 
able to drive it. But she hasnt been able to use the vehicle since July 2023 and its not fair, 
in those circumstances, for her to have been paying for the car since then. BMF should 
therefore, refund any finance instalments paid since the car was returned to the dealership in 
July 2023; they should add interest to the refund.
Miss B has explained shes incurred warranty, insurance, and petrol costs. The warranty 
wasnt something that was financed by BMF, and insurance was necessary in order for her 
to drive the car to the dealership. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask BMF to refund those 
costs. Ive not seen sufficient evidence that Miss Bs petrol costs increased either and Im not 
therefore, ordering any refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Allow Miss B to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss B.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund and finance instalments paid since July 2023 and in respect of loss of use. 
Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Pay Miss B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman