DRN-2675485
The complaint
Ms G complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to her.   
What happened
Ms G was approved for a £10,000 capital amount loan in July 2018 by TFS. The term of the 
loan was 60 months, with monthly repayments of approximately £350.
Miss G says the loan was unaffordable; and TFS wouldve realised this had it completed 
proportionate checks. She says she has lost out financially by having to pay additional 
interest and charges. Ms G says she is experiencing financial hardship. 
TFS says it lent responsibly because it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, 
which showed the loan was affordable to Ms G.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the checks which TFS 
completed did not go far enough to establish if Ms G could afford the loan in a sustainable 
way. She felt further checks wouldve shown the loan was unaffordable to Ms G; and as 
such TFS had acted unfairly by approving the loan.
TFS disagreed and maintained its position it had lent responsibly.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Gs complaint.  
TFS is aware that it needs to complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
completing any loan application for Ms G. In essence it needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to establish that Ms G was able to make the necessary repayments for 
the loan. The checks that TFS completed needed to be reasonable in relation to the amount 
of credit that Ms G was applying for. It is also important to note that it is not enough for TFS 
to simply complete the necessary checks; but it must also carefully consider the information 
it is presented with.
In this instance TFS says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. It says this is 
because it completed an income and expenditure assessment and searched Ms Gs credit 
file. TFS says it used average figures to determine Ms Gs outgoings, and used a third party 
system tool to verify Ms Gs income. 
Ive carefully considered TFS argument but I disagree it completed proportionate checks in 
this instance.
The credit report which TFS completed showed that Ms G had a high existing debt level; 
spread across a number of credit products. The report shows Ms G wasnt managing these 
particularly well; and that her reliance on credit products was increasing as time got closer to 
her TFS loan application. One credit card had a £2,500 credit limit on it and Ms G had 
exceeded this amount by over £1,000. Another credit card had a balance of £2,000 with 
history of arrears on it; and a limit of only £1,500. The report also shows Ms G had had a 
number of unsecured loans in the past; which demonstrated a cycle of borrowing to support 
her income. 
In her application Ms G declared her income to be just under £2,000 per month; and gave 
TFS a figure of approximately £550 for her rent and council tax. She also told TFS of a 
number of loans which hadnt appeared on her credit file. TFS used average figures to help 
complete Ms Gs credit assessment; which TFS says covered her general living expenses 
and other outgoings such as car expenses. TFS says after the loan amount was deducted 
from these figures Ms G was left was a disposable income of £81. It says these checks were 
proportionate.
However, based on the information Ive highlighted above, it is clear Ms Gs circumstances 
were such that a detailed understanding of her outgoings was needed. It is clear she had 
issues managing credit in the past, and even on TFSs best estimate Ms G was only left with 
a small surplus each month. As such Im satisfied TFS shouldve done more to understand 
Ms Gs financial position. And as TFS did not do this; Im satisfied that the checks it 
completed werent proportionate in this instance.  
Im also satisfied based on the information that was provided at the time of the loan, and 
subsequently by Ms G, that the loan itself was not affordable to her, and that in any event 
TFS decision to lend was unreasonable. 
Im persuaded the credit file TFS generated at the time showed Ms G was not in a suitable 
position to take on further borrowing. Ive explained above that Ms G had issues managing 
credit in the past. There are examples of her exceeding her credit limits, and that she was 
increasing her reliance on credit in order to supplement her income. Her total debt had 
increased significantly too; and TFS was going to increase this further by this loan. 
TFSs own assessment also showed the loan was likely to be unaffordable to Ms G. This 
assessment showed that she only had £81 disposable income per month. This was a figure 
based off national averages, and as such can be seen as a best-case scenario for Ms G. As 
TFS is aware any lending it completed needed to be sustainable for Ms G. Im not 
persuaded that a buffer of £81 can be described as sustainable; and as such Im not 
satisfied the lending decision based off this was fair. Add to this the fact Ms G has shown 
that she has had to borrow significantly in the past to supplement her income; Im satisfied 
Ms G wouldnt have been able to meet all of her commitments sustainably.
Ms G has also provided evidence from her debt management plan, which demonstrated the 
financial difficulties she was experiencing before and after the loan. And it is clear her 
finances were such that any further lending would not have been affordable to her. And as 
Ive explained above TFS had sufficient information at the time to realise any further lending 
wasnt sustainable to Ms G also. 
So it follows that Im satisfied TFS shouldnt have lent to Ms G. Its decision to lend has 
caused Ms G to suffer a financial loss by having to pay additional interest and charges. And 
as such TFS needs to put things right for Ms G.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I require TFS Loans Limited to:To add up the total amount of money Ms G received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Ms G made should be deducted from this total amount.
a) If this results in Ms G having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms G.
To remove any negative information recorded on Ms Gs credit file regarding this 
loan.
  If TFS Loans Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms G how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman