DRN-3590791
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly added 
an exclusion to his policy.
Mr Bs representative has brought the complaint on his behalf. I will treat all submissions 
made by his representative as though they were made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B took out an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by LV. Mr B made a claim 
as he was unable to work due to illness. 
LV declined the claim because it said Mr B had incorrectly answered questions about his 
medical history which it considered to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation. And which 
entitled it to add an exclusion to the policy. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld because 
Mr B didnt answer the questions correctly and it was fair for LV to conclude that he was 
experiencing stress and anxiety prior to buying the policy. 
Mr B doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
said the report from the psychotherapist wasnt taken into account. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered no to a number of questions. LV asked whether Mr B had depression, anxiety or 
stress in the last 5 years. It also asked whether in the last 3 years Mr B had requested 
counselling or therapy.  
Ive looked at the questions asked and I dont think Mr B took reasonable care when 
answering. 
Mr B had been seeing a psychotherapist privately a year before he took the policy. And a 
consultant psychiatrist had confirmed that Mr B had reported seeing a psychotherapist as he 
recognised that he was suffering from anxiety and stress. 
Mr B says he only mentioned this to his consultant so that he could show he was being 
proactive about his ongoing health. And he was unaware he was suffering from stress or 
anxiety, so he didnt fail to take reasonable care when answering LVs questions. He said he 
saw the psychotherapist to talk through childhood issues.
But Im satisfied that Mr B should have answered yes when asked whether he had 
requested counselling or therapy within the last 3 years on the basis that he had been 
seeing a psychotherapist privately to talk through some issues. I also dont think it was 
unreasonable for LV to conclude that Mr B had been suffering from stress or anxiety based 
on what he reported to his consultant.
LV has provided its underwriting criteria to show that it would have added an exclusion for 
mental health problems had Mr B told it that he had been seeing a psychotherapist. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. LV has treated 
it as careless which I agree with. Ive looked at the actions LV can take in accordance with 
CIDRA. LV offered to add an exclusion or cancel the policy and refund Mr Bs premiums. Mr 
B chose to cancel the policy and Ive seen LV refunded his premiums which I think is the fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Mr B says the report from the psychotherapist wasnt taken into account. But the report 
simply confirms what Mr B was seen for. And this doesnt change the fact that he should 
have told LV that he had been receiving counselling or therapy. 
LV also paid Mr B £150 compensation for its delays in dealing with his claim which I think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for a short delay. And so I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman