DRN-2777446
The complaint
Mr R complains that a hire purchase agreement he had for a car with Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd was unaffordable.  
What happened
In June 2017 Mr R took out a hire purchase agreement for a used car with Blue Motor 
Finance. The agreement was arranged via a broker. The agreement was for five years and 
the cash price of the car was £16,999 and the cost of the interest was £14,024, with a credit 
acceptance fee of £517.05 and an option to purchase fee of £10 making a total amount to 
pay of £31,700.05. Mr R was required to make 60 monthly payments of £517.06 and a final 
payment of £667.05 in month 61.
Mr R says that at the time he entered into to the agreement he wasnt actually working 
though he was intending to start. Unfortunately, his personal circumstances than changed 
and he was left struggling to pay the agreement. Mr R says that Blue Motor Finance didnt 
carry out reasonable and proportionate financial checks to ensure the agreement was 
sustainably affordable for him.
Blue Motor says that Mr R informed the broker he was employed with an income of £6,000 
per month. It says Mr R signed the agreement to show the information he had provided was 
accurate and that he could afford the monthly payments. Blue Motor said it had carried out a 
check with a credit reference agency and applied an affordability score. It said it had found 
the agreement was affordable for Mr R.
Mr R paid the agreement as agreed until September 2017 when Blue Motor Finance said he 
reported that he wouldnt be able to make a full payment as he was off work due to a 
personal issue. A payment plan was agreed to clear the arrears. There was a further part 
payment in May 2018 again due to personal issues and missed payments. Mr R resumed his 
payments until the agreement was voluntarily terminated in February 2020. Mr R says he 
struggled to pay until he had reached a point with the agreement where he could afford to 
terminate it. A balance of £128.53 remains outstanding that arises from Mr R not fully 
clearing the arrears that arose from the missed payments.
Mr R complained to Blue Motor Finance in July 2020 that he believed it hadnt carried out an 
affordability check before providing him with the hire purchase agreement for the car. Blue 
Motor Finance didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had carried out a credit reference 
check so had checked out Mr Rs credit worthiness and had also applied an affordability 
score to him. Blue Motor Finance said it was satisfied the loan had been affordable for Mr R.
Mr R disagreed with Blue Motor Finances decision and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think 
Blue Motor Finance had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R was able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Our investigator said that to put things right Blue Motor Finance should refund all the interest 
and charges paid by Mr R under the agreement together with interest on that amount. Our 
investigator also said that as the credit agreement shouldnt have gone live then it would be 
unfair for Mr R to be penalised by any adverse information as to how he managed that 
account. She said Blue Motor Finance should remove any adverse information about this 
agreement from Mr Rs credit file and it should write off any outstanding balance.
Mr R agreed with our investigators view however Blue Motor Finance disagreed. It said it 
hadnt acted irresponsibly providing the credit agreement to Mr R. It said the hire purchase 
agreement had been arranged by a broker who wouldnt have accepted an application from 
Mr R if he had said he was unemployed. Blue Motor Finance said Mr R had said he was 
working and there had been no sign of financial stress when the credit check had been 
carried out.  It also said that Mr R hadnt raised being unemployed throughout the life of the 
agreement.
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law there are 
two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did Blue Motor Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr R would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R wouldve 
been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Did Blue Motor Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Looking at the first question, I agree with the view of our investigator that I dont think Black 
Horse carried out reasonable and proportionate checks despite its strong representations 
that it did, and I will explain why. 
Blue Motor Finance says the checks it carried out complied with the requirements of the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) set out in the FCAs handbook when assessing 
affordability. CONC says that a credit provider, in order to responsibly lend, is required to 
carry out what is referred to as an affordability check and this check should be borrower 
focused. This is to verify Mr R could sustainably afford the borrowing when looking at his 
particular circumstances.
CONC also says that checks are to be reasonable and proportionate and whats considered 
to fit that test will depend on a number of factors such as the amount of credit; the total 
repayable and the size of the regular payments; the duration of the agreement, the cost of 
the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Here, the total amount payable was around £31,700.05 with monthly payments of £517.06 
over a five-year term. Im unclear what Mr Rs declared income was or whether he actually 
provided one. Blue Motor Finance says he gave information to the broker but that the broker 
is no longer able to locate the point of sale meeting. Blue Motor says that Mr R had said he 
was employed with an income of £6,000 per month however I havent seen what was recorded by the broker. But even if Mr R had declared an income, I think its reasonable to 
say this was a sizable and lengthy credit agreement for Mr R to enter into and, due to that, I 
think the affordability check needed to be thorough for it to satisfy the requirements set down 
in CONC. 
I dont know what was said between Mr R and the supplying dealer and the records of the 
meeting with the broker when he provided information cant be produced. Mr R says all he 
was asked to produce was his driving licence and a debit card. I have seen that he signed 
the credit agreement and by doing so was acknowledging that any information he had 
provided was correct. But, even if Mr R had misled about his income, that doesnt mean Blue 
Motor Finance wasnt still required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. CONC 
5.3.1.(4)(b) states it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. 
Here the borrowing was a significant amount being over £30,000 so I think it would have 
been proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to have verified Mr Rs income. I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr R was asked to produce any evidence regarding his income.
Ive seen that Blue Motor Finance says that it carried out a credit check and that this didnt 
reveal any financial stress. However, I dont know what this credit check revealed as a copy 
hasnt been provided. Mr R has also been unable to provide a copy and has instead 
provided copies of bank statements. But Im aware that whatever was revealed on the credit 
check it wouldnt have verified Mr Rs earnings and had Blue Motor Finance asked for further 
information about Mr Rs salary, such as payslips then it would have discovered that he 
wasnt working. 
I also dont think Blue Motor Finance has properly gathered information about Mr Rs 
expenses. It doesnt appear to have asked any questions about Mr Rs outgoings and relied 
only on a credit check. Looking at the bank statements provided by Mr R there appears to 
have been payments for a loan with a subprime lender, a credit card and also an arranged 
overdraft fee around the time he entered into the agreement. I think its likely there were 
active credit accounts on his credit record and that other questions about commitments 
should have been raised by Blue Motor Finance to check Mr R wasnt overcommitting when 
taking on this agreement.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Blue Motor Finance completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R would be able to repay this agreement in 
a sustainable way. This means I now need to consider that if Blue Motor Finance had carried 
out those checks, would it have shown Mr R was able to repay this agreement in a 
sustainable way. I think the answer to this second question is no.
I cant be sure of the information and evidence Blue Motor Finance would have asked for or 
would have received if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, so Ive looked 
at what it would have been likely to have discovered. Here, I think it would have uncovered 
that Mr R wasnt working and had no income at the time of applying for the credit agreement 
for the car.
Mr R says that his wife was working full-time and was covering the household bills with 
assistance from family. Sadly, a close relative of Mr Rs had recently died, and Mr R says he 
was receiving some money from the relatives estate and he sold some belongings online. 
Mr R says that he thinks he received a total of around £4,000 from that estate. Looking at 
the bank statements I havent seen any evidence that Mr R had received a substantial sum 
from this this relatives estate. Mr R has payments going into his account but nothing that would suggest a regular income 
from employment. His wife and another relative were providing regular payments into his 
account. Mr R says that his usual share of the household bills amounted to around £710 but 
that his wife had to cover his share as she was working fulltime. But just because Mr Rs wife 
was covering the household bills, I dont think it would be fair to assume that her income was 
sufficient to pay the hire purchase agreement in addition to the other household bills. The 
agreement was in Mr Rs name and his responsibility. And although household bills were 
shared it appears from the bank statements Ive seen, that another relative was also helping 
support the family. Im also aware that, sadly, the family were dealing with a close family 
members health problem and so I think that it wouldnt be unusual for other family members 
to help out financially in these circumstances. But that wouldnt mean this credit agreement 
was sustainably affordable.  
Blue Motor Finance says the agreement was affordable because Mr R made the required 
payments until the agreement was voluntary terminated. But I dont think its reasonable to 
presume payments alone mean the agreement was affordable for Mr R. Im satisfied he had 
no regular income from employment and was raising some money from selling items, but 
this was ad hoc and was also receiving financial help from family members 
Although Mr Rs wifes income is unknown as are the full household expenses, I dont think I 
need to resolve what her earnings are nor what is and isnt an essential expenditure for the 
family. This is because, at the time Mr R entered into the hire purchase agreement, he didnt 
have a regular income from employment and so any repayment would have been 
unaffordable. I think in these circumstances its more likely than not that Blue Motor Finance 
would have declined Mr Rs credit application for the car.
The final question I have to consider is whether Blue Motor Finance did anything else wrong. 
Mr R has raised that Blue Motor was unsympathetic to his personal situation and also that 
the car was said to come with a warranty and then didnt. Ive seen Blue Motor Finance was 
aware about the family members health problem in September 2017, but a payment plan 
appears to have been agreed to cover the missed payment. I havent seen any evidence that 
it harassed or acted unfairly when Mr R sought to postpone or defer payments. In regard to 
the warranty I havent seen any evidence that this was raised with Blue Motor Finance or 
that it was part of the credit agreement so I cant reasonably say that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way.
So, for the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Putting things right
As the credit agreement shouldnt have been accepted by Blue Motor Finance then Im going 
to ask it to, as fairly as possibly, put Mr R back into the position he would have been in had 
he not taken out the agreement. However, he did have use of the car and I think it would be 
fair for Mr R to pay for the usage of the car. So, Im going to ask Blue Motor Finance to do 
the following:
Reimburse Mr R the interest element of the payments he made under the hire 
purchase agreement together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Reimburse Mr R any charges that were added to the account together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Clear any outstanding balance remaining on the accountRemove any adverse information about this account from Mr Rs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman