DRN-2689716
The complaint
Mrs A complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card (Argos) 
unfairly applied interest and a charge to her credit card account. Mrs A is represented in this 
complaint by her husband but to avoid confusion my decision will only refer to Mrs A.
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs A successfully applied online for an Argos credit card. Her first credit card 
statement in July 2020 shows her total account balance was £222.96. £199.96 of this was 
on Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) terms and £23 was on her accounts normal credit terms 
(Normal Credit). Mrs A went on to make several repayments to her account. 
In September 2020 Argos applied a £12 late payment charge to Mrs As account. And it 
charged her interest on the Normal Credit part of her account balance, as it had done since 
she started using her Argos credit card. 
Mrs A complained to Argos about the late charge and interest. Argos said Mrs A had an 
online account and it had emailed her a reminder to access her account and view her 
statement. And this statement made clear Mrs A needed to pay £5 by 17 September 2020. 
As she didnt make the payment by this date, it had applied the £12 late charge in line with 
the account terms and conditions. Argos said the account terms made clear this was an 
interest bearing account and Mrs A agreed to the terms when she applied for the card.  
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service, saying shed bought some things on BNPL terms 
and made some repayments, but had time to pay the rest. She said she didnt know about 
late payment fees and hadnt agreed to them. And interest wasnt allowed in her religion. 
Our investigator said the account terms and conditions Mrs A agreed to when she applied for 
the card made clear it was an interest bearing account, and that Argos had fairly applied the 
late charge and interest in line with the terms and conditions.
Mrs A said she hadnt signed any agreement - shed applied online and was sent the card in 
the post. And this was her first experience with this type of account, so she didnt know how 
it worked and Argos hadnt explained things. Mrs A said the late charge and interest were 
wrong and not something shed agreed to. And Argos hadnt sent her any statements, 
though she confirmed shed had access to her online account as thats how she knew to 
make payments. Mrs A also confirmed she hadnt asked Argos any questions about her 
account and that shed now repaid the balance and closed the account.
As Mrs A disagreed with our investigator, her complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this isnt the answer Mrs A hoped 
for, but Ill explain my reasons.
Ive seen that the application Mrs A completed online sets out the account terms and 
conditions, including what interest and charges will be applied to the account. Instead of 
hand signing the application, Argos has explained that Mrs A was required to click on a box 
to say she agreed to those terms and conditions. And that because this was an online 
application, the application will only show the date she ticked that box. I see the signature 
section of Mrs As application contains a date, consistent with Argos explanation. And credit 
card applicants are usually required to agree to the account terms and conditions before 
their account is opened. So Im satisfied Mrs A agreed to the account terms and conditions. 
Argos says it included a copy of the terms and conditions in the welcome pack it sent Mrs A 
along with her new credit card. Mrs A has confirmed she received her new card. So I think 
its more likely than not she also received the copy of the terms and conditions sent with it.
As Ive said, Im satisfied Mrs A agreed to the account terms and conditions as part of her 
application. So Ive considered what the terms say about interest. They say the standard 
interest rate on Mrs As account is the Normal Credit interest rate, and purchases made 
using the card will be made on Normal Credit unless Argos offers one of its other payment 
plans, such as BNPL. And that purchases on Normal Credit will be charged interest unless 
repaid in full by the next monthly payment date. 
The terms also say that if Argos offers a BNPL plan, it would agree a period the plan will last 
for. And if all of the balance of the BNPL Plan is paid in full before the end of the BNPL 
period, no interest will be charged. And Argos has explained that any purchases Mrs A made 
with her card for less than £50 would be on Normal Credit terms and not BNPL. 
Ive been provided with Mrs As account statements from July 2020 to November 2020. 
These show most of Mrs As total account balance was BNPL and that she wasnt being 
charged interest on the BNPL part of her balance. They also show Mrs A wasnt fully 
repaying the Normal Credit part of her balance each month and so was being charged 
interest on it. Based on the account terms and conditions and Mrs As statements, Im 
satisfied Argos fairly applied interest to Mrs As account in line with the terms and conditions. 
I know Mrs A says she didnt receive any statements and that she didnt know how her 
account worked. But Argos has explained Mrs A had an online account, and Mrs A has 
confirmed she could access her account.  Argos has provided evidence to show what 
Mrs As online account would look like, and Im satisfied it made statements available to her 
there. If Mrs A had any questions or concerns about her statements or account, she could 
have contacted Argos. But shes confirmed she didnt. The statements Argos made available 
to Mrs A set out the interest shed been charged each month along with the interest she 
would be charged the following month. Given this, Im satisfied Argos took reasonable steps 
to tell Mrs A she was being charged interest on the Normal Credit part of her balance.
Mrs As August 2020 statement said she must make a minimum payment of £5 by 
17 September 2020. But her statements show she didnt make that payment until 
27 September 2020. And the account terms say Argos may charge £12 if you do not make 
your minimum monthly contractual payment on time. So, Im satisfied Argos fairly applied 
the £12 late payment charge to Mrs As account.
Given this, Im satisfied Argos hasnt made an error and so Im not asking it to do anything 
here. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman