DRN-2446989
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank PLC closed her bank accounts without notice and 
wont release the funds remaining in her accounts. Miss R is also unhappy with the service 
she received from Barclays and adverse information recorded against her. Shed like the 
funds released and compensation for the impact caused. 
What happened
Miss R had a personal account and an ISA with Barclays. 
On the 9 October 2017 Miss R received £250,000 into her personal account. On the 
10 October 2017 £200,000 was transferred out and soon after £20,000 was transferred from 
Miss Rs personal account to her Barclays ISA.
On the 17 October 2017 Barclays received a notification from the sending bank that the 
£250,000 received on the 9 October 2017 was fraudulent. They placed a block on Miss Rs 
personal account, and following investigation sent Miss R a notice of immediate closure for 
both accounts on the 26 October 2017. They also loaded a marker on Miss Rs record on the 
National Fraud Database with CIFAS. 
On the 17 January 2018 Barclays released the funds from Miss Rs ISA, a total of just over 
£20,000. This was withdrawn by Miss R on the 22 January 2018. 
However, Barclays didnt release the remaining funds totalling £33,802.08 and returned 
these to the sending bank. 
In 2019 Miss R complained to Barclays about why she hadnt been provided with a reason 
for the closure of her accounts and her remaining funds hadnt been released. Barclays 
didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint and in response said theyd followed the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Miss R wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service through a 
representative. Ill refer to all responses from Miss Rs representative as though coming from 
Miss R directly. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Rs complaint. Our investigator contacted Barclays 
to discuss why just over £20,000 had been released to Miss R but the remaining £33,802.08 
was returned to the sending bank. Barclays accepted theyd made an error in releasing the 
£20,000 to Miss R, and they should have also returned these funds to source. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly in restricting and closing both of Miss Rs 
accounts, and returning the £33,802.08 to the sending bank. 
Miss R didnt accept our investigators outcome. Ill outline and respond to the key points 
Miss R made which were:
She hasnt committed a breach so shouldnt have adverse information recorded 
against her.
Shes never been charged or had any action taken against her in a court of law.
Shes been victimized by Barclays and should have her funds returned.
Why wasnt she provided with information regarding why the funds were returned?
The investigator mentions not being persuaded by the proof of entitlement provided 
by her, what is this based on? 
She doesnt have further information regarding the redundancy and settlement 
agreement because it happened three years ago.  
If shed been found locked in a bank branch then it would have been impossible for 
her to explain this to the police. 
Shes unhappy with a call that was supposed to be made to her representative by 
Barclays and during the call she wasnt offered any compensation. Miss R also 
raised that this call hasnt been provided to her. 
As Miss R didnt accept our investigators view its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction and closure:
Ive firstly considered whether Barclays acted fairly in restricting access to Miss Rs bank 
account. Although I appreciate that Miss R is unhappy that restrictions were placed on her 
account businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to 
comply with various laws and regulations. Barclays are required to comply with a wide range 
of law and regulation, including the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook and various pieces of primary and secondary 
legislations. Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed 
her account. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it initially blocked Miss Rs 
account and didnt allow her access to her funds.
Ive moved on to consider the closure of Miss Rs accounts and whether the bank acted 
fairly. A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a 
bank. But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Rs bank account state that there are certain 
circumstances in which Barclays can immediately close a customers account. Section 11 of 
the terms and conditions state that Barclays can close an account without any notice if they 
reasonably believe:
You put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty 
that applies to us if we maintain your account.
You give us false information at any time.
You commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else. You use (or allow someone else to use) your account illegally or for criminal activity, 
including receiving proceeds of crime into your account.
You inappropriately let someone else use your account. 
You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff. 
You become bankrupt. 
Ive considered these terms and from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays acted 
within the terms and conditions when they closed Miss R account. I appreciate that Miss R is 
unhappy that Barclays havent been specific as to the reason why her bank account was 
closed  and which conditions shes breached. However, our rules allow us to receive 
evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of 
reasons  for example, if it contains information about other customers, security information 
or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. But Id like to reassure you that 
Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, the bank acted fairly.
I realise this will be disappointing to Miss R and I appreciate the closure of her accounts 
caused her inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers 
banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can 
decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in 
Miss Rs case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to 
close her accounts. 
Withholding of funds and Adverse information:
Ive moved on to consider Miss Rs main complaint point  whether Barclays have acted 
fairly in not releasing the remaining funds of £33,802.08.
 
Ive seen evidence from Barclays that they received a scam report from the sending bank 
regarding £250,000 received into Miss Rs personal account on the 9 October 2017. Miss R 
has explained that these funds were received as part of a redundancy settlement and 
provided a copy of her contract, dated from 2006, from her former employer which Ill call B. 
This states in the event of termination of contract the amount of £25,000 annual bonus per 
annum is payable to cover each year of employment. Miss R also provided a letter from B 
from July 2017 which states you are also entitled to a statutory redundancy payment. 
Your entitlement in this regard is a payment of £8,068.50. Ive seen evidence of this 
payment crediting Miss Rs Barclays personal account in August 2017. Our investigator 
asked Miss R to provide further evidence of the redundancy settlement, including 
documentation to show her entitlement to the £250,000, however Miss R hasnt been able to 
provide this. 
I appreciate Miss R is very frustrated by the lack of information provided to her by Barclays 
about their decision not to release her remaining funds. Ive thought about whether the bank 
have acted fairly here in not returning the funds to Miss R. And I can understand why the 
bank dont consider Miss R has adequately explained her entitlement to the money. In 
reaching this conclusion I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
On bringing her complaint to our service Miss R didnt initially complain about adverse 
information loaded on her credit file. However Barclays have since advised our service 
Miss R had a marker loaded against her with CIFAS, and Miss R has mentioned adverse 
information preventing her from opening another bank account. So Ive briefly considered the fairness of the marker. Im satisfied that at the time the bank loaded the CIFAS marker they 
met the burden of proof required. In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the evidence 
provided by Barclays showing the scam funds crediting Miss Rs account account, the 
account activity including the transfer out of £200,000 the day after receiving the funds along 
with Miss Rs explanation and the evidence provided by her for the entitlement to the funds. 
In doing so Im satisfied that Miss R was complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. And 
Barclays acted fairly in loading the marker. 
Overall service:
Ive considered the service provided by Barclays throughout Miss Rs complaint. Miss Rs 
referred to two things in particular the first a phone call where Barclays were rude and 
disrespectful to her on the phone. Unfortunately Barclays havent been able to trace this call. 
I understand this will be disappointing to Miss R but without this Im unable to conclude that 
the service provided by Barclays on this call wasnt acceptable. And secondly being locked 
in a Barclays bank branch  Miss R has raised how difficult it would have been to explain to 
the police why she was in a locked bank branch if she was questioned about this. I dont 
doubt Miss Rs argument here but our service doesnt award compensation for potential 
losses or impacts from a situation. What this means is as Miss R wasnt approached by the 
police and questioned about being present in a closed Barclays branch I cant award 
compensation for something that could but didnt happen. 
I understand that this will be very disappointing to Miss R, but for the reasons Ive outlined 
above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman