DRN-3649371
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Santander UK Plc placed a block on his account address so he could not 
order a cheque book by post. And he says it neglected its duty of care to him when he was 
in one of its branches.
What happened
Mr B had to visit a branch as he was unable to order a cheque book online. He says the 
bank has had his correct address for 12 years. Mr B also says Santander staff did not 
intervene when another customer was rude to him in the branch. Nor did it assist when he 
returned to the branch with a police officer.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said Santander placed a temporary 
block on Mr Bs account address after mail it sent to him was returned. This is a security 
policy and is common practice across the banking industry. From Santanders testimony it 
seemed the other customer had made a comment to try and lighten the situation as Mr B 
had become angry and frustrated, but as it all happened very quickly it was reasonable the 
branch staff did not get involved. The bank did explain to the police no criminal offence had 
taken place.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He repeated that he 
has rights in the UK, the bank has had his correct address for 12 years so why did it block it. 
He had called the bank to ask it to issue a cheque book to avoid going into the branch, then 
when he had to the customer in the queue behind him was rude to him. He wants 
compensation as soon as possible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B raised a number of issues in response to the investigators assessment that the 
investigator replied to. I have considered all of Mr Bs points carefully. In keeping with our 
role as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the 
points I find to be material to the outcome of the complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I have found no evidence of any failings on Santanders part. It followed its security process 
correctly when it temporarily stopped mail to Mr Bs address after post to it had been 
returned. This was in his interest and to protect his account. When he went into the branch, 
and confirmed his registered address was correct, Santander removed the block and 
ordered a new cheque book for Mr B. 
Mr B has told us he didnt hear what the other customer said but thinks the bank should have 
done more at the time, as well as when he returned with police. Mr B accepts he punched a 
desk as he left the branch. The bank thinks the other customers comment was along the 
lines of cheer up its a nice day" and/or "never mind about it theres worse things to 
complain about but says the incident was all over very quickly. It confirmed no offence had 
been committed by any party when Mr B returned with the police. So, overall, I havent seen 
any evidence that the bank neglected its duty of care to Mr B whilst he was in its branch, or 
when he returned with the police.  
It follows I am not awarding Mr B any compensation.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman