DRN-4281134
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) have provided him 
with poor customer service since he attempted to close his account.
What happened
Mr H attempted to close his account in July 2022. He received a cheque from them for 
£38.68, which he assumed was in relation to a credit balance he had on his account. Mr H 
contacted Amex and he was told his account was still active and there was a further credit 
balance due to a refund (£79) from a third party. As Mr H lives overseas, he was unable to 
deposit a cheque in the currency it was issued in, but he has an account which can accept 
this currency and he asked Amex to pay the money directly into that account. Amex asked 
for evidence of the account, which Mr H says he provided them with, however, he was 
issued another cheque for the further refund. He also asked Amex for a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR). Mr H made a complaint to Amex, but they did not respond to his 
complaint, so he brought this to our service.
Amex upheld Mr Hs complaint. They said their records showed that a credit balance refund 
(CBR) of £79 had been returned to him and there was a clerical error in regards to the 
cheque for £38.68. They said they acknowledged his complaint on 2 November 2022. Amex 
said they have requested another DSAR to be sent to Mr H, which may take up to a month 
and taking these factors into account, they sent him a cheque for £100. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She said errors had been made as Amex admitted 
this in their final response to Mr H and £100 was fair compensation. She said Amex sent Mr 
H a letter on 11 October 2022 asking him to provide information necessary to action a CBR, 
but she didnt believe Mr H received this letter as while Mr H lives abroad  and had 
informed Amex of his address, the letter showed United Kingdom in the last line of the 
address which may have caused an issue. She said Amex need to update his address, to 
ensure letters are being sent correctly. Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He said the chat logs showed he raised his complaint with Amex in August 2022.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I completed my investigations into Mr Hs complaint, Amex told me that the previously 
issued cheques of £38.68 and £79 were automatically credited back to Mr Hs closed 
account when he hadnt deposited the cheques. Amex said that the £100 cheque they paid 
Mr H for the outcome of his complaint has been cancelled and credited to his closed account 
also. So the balance of his closed account was £217.68. They said to help progress this 
complaint, as Mr H had provided a copy of his bank statement as part of his DSAR, they had 
sought agreement to have this returned to his third party account which can accept Pounds 
sterling. They said this agreement had been approved and as this was issued to Mr Hs bank 
account, his account balance is now zero which allows them to fully close his account. They 
also updated Mr Hs address. Mr H asked me to continue with my investigations into his 
complaint.
Ive considered what has happened from when Mr H asked Amex to close his account. Ive 
looked at the chats that Mr H and Amex had in August 2022. Its clear to me that on 3 
August 2022, Mr H asks Amex to raise a complaint for him. The chat agent responds by 
saying I will go ahead and add notes and request our team to expedite the process. But it 
doesnt appear that Mr Hs complaint was registered in August 2022, even though this had 
been again confirmed to him on a chat he had with them on 22 August 2022. 
In the chat on 3 August 2022, they discuss the CBR. The chat agent asks Mr H Do you 
want me to process the credit balance refund into your bank account ? Mr H confirms that 
he does and security details are given. I can see a message in the chat which says Bank 
account validation was successful. Mr H is told I have successfully requested the team to 
issue the refund of £ 79.00 to your bank account. The refund will be processed by our team 
within 10 working days and reflect on you're account. So I do think that Amex set an 
expectation here that the £79 would be paid to Mr Hs bank account directly and not by 
cheque. But they still sent a cheque out to Mr H for £79.
Mr H then asks about the cheque for £38.68. The agent asks him a question, but Mr H 
doesnt respond to his question. As such this is not discussed further. As Mr H did not 
respond to Amexs question as part of security, then Im satisfied that the agent couldnt do 
anymore on this issue at the time.  
It may help to explain to Mr H Amexs process for a CBR. Amex have told us that if they are 
to send a credit back to a bank account, they need to trace the original payment that was 
made to Amex, that paid for the original transaction, which was subsequently reversed or 
refunded, which then creates the credit balance. So they ask to see a detailed bank 
statement which shows certain details, including the original payment to Amex, this enables 
Amex to meet their anti-money laundering requirements. If they cant send the money to that 
bank account, their process is to send a cheque to the account holder. But this wasnt 
explained to him in the chat. So if Amex needed a bank statement from Mr H, I wouldve 
expected the chat agents to tell Mr H exactly what they would need from him.
I can see that Mr H was sent letters dated 5 August 2022, 10 October 2022 and 25 October 
2022, regarding the £79 credit balance on his account. The two October letters asks him to 
upload an online scan of the source account bank statement and gives him the website 
address to do this and the requirements of what he needed to send them. But it appears that 
Mr H didnt get these letters. This is likely because the address contained United Kingdom 
when he was based overseas. If the address was correct, then this would have enabled Mr 
H to take the actions on the letter and he couldve received the CBR a substantial number of 
months earlier than when he did receive this money. 
Amex then wrote to Mr H on 9 November 2022 to let him know that they issued the CBR by 
cheque. While it appears that Mr H did receive the cheque which I understand was sent 
separately to the letter, he maintains he didnt receive the letter which explained why he got 
the cheque. As the letter contained United Kingdom when he lived overseas, then this is 
likely why he didnt receive this letter.
So Im persuaded that Amex have let Mr H down on a number of occasions since he asked 
for the account to be closed. I say this because the communication which they sent him by 
post contained errors in the address, despite it being clear he lived overseas. So it appears 
that he didnt receive all of the post Amex sent him - although he did receive some of it, such 
as the cheques Amex sent to him. In addition to this, it appears they didnt investigate his 
complaint when he raised it in August 2022. And they told him in August 2022 that the CBR was being sent to his bank account. They even told him this would be processed in 10 
working days  yet it was in October when they wrote to him about the CBR, requesting his 
bank statement, and all of this was after they said his bank account was successfully 
validated in the chat he had with them.
Amex also incorrectly told Mr H that the cheque for £38.68 was a clerical error, when in fact 
it was for an earlier refund. It also appears that there were delays with the DSAR as the 
email was not forwarded on to the correct team until the following month. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Im pleased to see that 
Amex have managed to pay the £38.68 and £79 refunds direct to Mr Hs third party bank 
account, and they have also paid the £100 compensation to that account also. They have 
also updated his address to the correct address overseas. But Im not persuaded that the 
£100 compensation recognises the impact that all of Amexs actions had on Mr H. I say this 
as there were significant delays in actions. Mr H was told in August that his CBR would be 
processed in 10 working days and his bank account was successfully validated. He was not 
told on the chat the requirement for him to send his bank statement, so the expectation was 
set that there was nothing further he needed to do after his bank account was validated and 
he was told it would be processed in 10 working days. As he didnt receive the funds, he was 
further inconvenienced by having to chase Amex for this.
So Im satisfied that Amex should pay Mr H a further £150 to total £250 compensation for 
what happened here  but to not pay this extra compensation as a cheque, even though this 
would be their normal process when an account is closed. Amex have proven with the other 
compensation that they can pay this direct to his account, and I would expect them to be 
able to do this with the further compensation also. Im satisfied an extra £150 recognises the 
impact of the delays, sending post to an address which showed a different area to the 
country Mr H was living in, which resulted in Mr H missing out on post which could have 
resolved the situation a lot earlier than when it was resolved and the general poor customer 
service they provided Mr H which caused him distress and inconvenience. So it follows I 
intend to ask Amex to put things right for Mr H.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Amex accepted the provisional decision. Mr H did not say whether he accepted the 
provisional decision or not. He mentioned several points about the chat history. In summary 
he said there was no mention of a cancellation letter in the chat on 20 July and even if the 
chat was not disconnected, the reason for the address is not stipulated. He asked if Amex 
had confirmed the representative has disconnected message indicated his connection was 
disconnected as some aspects of the chat logs suggest otherwise, such as he wasnt able to 
resume chats without logging in again. He said the address was correct as he received a 
confirmation of address change letter when he first moved abroad. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Hs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Mr H has said that there was no mention of a cancellation letter in the chat on 20 July. And I agree. The agent could have been clearer why he needed Mr Hs address, but this was only 
explained to him on 3 August 2022 at 3:27am when a new agent says Rep asked the 
address for cancellation letter and then was unresponsive hence card was not cancelled.
I can confirm to Mr H that Amex have not confirmed either way if the Representative has 
disconnected message indicated his connection was disconnected as some aspects of the 
chat logs suggest otherwise such as he wasnt able to resume chats without logging in 
again. I can see through the chat history he had mentioned issues with the chat. The 
message in the chat would indicate that it was Mr H that disconnected. But I would not be 
able to prove whose connection was at fault for this. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said about his address being right. But Mr H has told us he 
didnt receive certain correspondence from Amex. In an email to our investigator on 9 March 
2023 he said I've also seen the letters from October asking for information provided 22/8/3 
and 22/8/22. I can confirm they did not reach me and they are addressed to the UNITED 
KINGDOM. So because Amex hadnt fully changed Mr Hs correct address displaying the 
correct country he now lives in I believe this contributed to the delays as Mr H didnt receive 
this post, so I said the following in my provisional decision:
I can see that Mr H was sent letters dated 5 August 2022, 10 October 2022 and 25 October 
2022, regarding the £79 credit balance on his account. The two October letters asks him to 
upload an online scan of the source account bank statement and gives him the website 
address to do this and the requirements of what he needed to send them. But it appears that 
Mr H didnt get these letters. This is likely because the address contained United Kingdom 
when he was based overseas. If the address was correct, then this would have enabled Mr 
H to take the actions on the letter and he couldve received the CBR a substantial number of 
months earlier than when he did receive this money. 
Amex then wrote to Mr H on 9 November 2022 to let him know that they issued the CBR by 
cheque. While it appears that Mr H did receive the cheque which I understand was sent 
separately to the letter, he maintains he didnt receive the letter which explained why he got 
the cheque. As the letter contained United Kingdom when he lived overseas, then this is 
likely why he didnt receive this letter.
While Mr H may not agree with some of the contents of my provisional decision, Ive tried to 
be clear that Amex were responsible for significant delays and errors and this is why Im 
satisfied he is due further compensation than what Amex have already paid him. My 
provisional decision said So Im persuaded that Amex have let Mr H down on a number of 
occasions since he asked for the account to be closed. I say this because the 
communication which they sent him by post contained errors in the address, despite it being 
clear he lived overseas. So it appears that he didnt receive all of the post Amex sent him - 
although he did receive some of it, such as the cheques Amex sent to him. In addition to 
this, it appears they didnt investigate his complaint when he raised it in August 2022. And 
they told him in August 2022 that the CBR was being sent to his bank account. They even 
told him this would be processed in 10 working days  yet it was in October when they wrote 
to him about the CBR, requesting his bank statement, and all of this was after they said his 
bank account was successfully validated in the chat he had with them.
Amex also incorrectly told Mr H that the cheque for £38.68 was a clerical error, when in fact 
it was for an earlier refund. It also appears that there were delays with the DSAR as the 
email was not forwarded on to the correct team until the following month. And I did 
acknowledge the significant delays which werent Mr Hs fault when I said I say this as there 
were significant delays in actions. Mr H was told in August that his CBR would be processed 
in 10 working days and his bank account was successfully validated. He was not told on the 
chat the requirement for him to send his bank statement, so the expectation was set that there was nothing further he needed to do after his bank account was validated and he was 
told it would be processed in 10 working days. As he didnt receive the funds, he was further 
inconvenienced by having to chase Amex for this.
In summary, Mr Hs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mr H is disappointed, I hope he 
understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr H a further £150 (but not by cheque) 
for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited should pay Mr H a 
further £150 (but not by cheque) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman