DRN-3709493
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to acknowledge and 
address his concerns after fraud was detected on his credit card account.
What happened
On 17 January 2022 Halifaxs fraud detection system identified three transactions on Mr Bs 
credit card account that it needed to confirm had been authorised by him. Automated 
attempts were made to contact Mr B. Mr B says he tried to call back but ended up waiting in 
a queue for two and a half hours. Unable to speak to Halifax, Mr B wrote to complain about 
the delay in getting through to the fraud team and confirmed that the three transactions were 
not made by him. 
Mr B phoned Halifax again on 18 January 2022 and confirmed the transactions had not been 
made by him. Halifax promised to cancel the transactions, cancel his card, and send him a 
new one.
Mr B was concerned when on 20 January 2022 he noticed that the transactions were still 
appearing on his credit card statement. He again tried to contact Halifax but was unable to 
get through on the phone line so wrote another letter complaining of the delay in dealing with 
the fraudulent transactions.
Halifax cancelled the unauthorised transactions on Mr Bs account on 20 January 2022. It 
explained that while Mr Bs letter dated 17 January 2022 had been passed to the fraud team 
to deal with, it considered the matter had already been resolved and so didnt respond. 
Halifax said it has no record of receiving Mr Bs second letter dated 20 January 2022 and so 
it doesnt know if this letter required a response or not. 
 
In April 2022 Mr B contacted Halifax as hed noticed a recurring transaction on his account 
relating to a subscription service he didnt recognise. Halifax called Mr B a few days later to 
discuss this. But there was some confusion during this call as Mr B could not recall raising a 
complaint about the recurring subscription payment, and thought Halifax was calling about 
the earlier fraudulent transactions. Mr B said he asked Halifax to ring him back the following 
day, but it failed to do so. He finally received a call on 5 June 2022, but he was unable to 
speak and a call was made the following day. Mr B was unhappy that he was then asked to 
wait in a queue to be transferred to the fraud team. He asked Halifax to call him back when 
the phonelines were quieter, which it did.
Halifax agreed to investigate the recurring transactions and later accepted they were 
unauthorised. It refunded the unauthorised transactions plus associated interest in 
July 2022. 
Mr B complained to the Financial Ombudsman as he felt hed been treated unfairly. He was 
unhappy Halifax had failed to respond to either of his letters of complaint from January 2022. 
He was also frustrated that it had been so difficult and time consuming to contact the fraud 
team. He asked for compensation for the difficulties hed faced and a refund of interest hed 
incurred on his account due to the fraudulent transactions. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied that 
Halifax had refunded all the fraudulent payments and had adjusted the interest charged. So, 
she was satisfied Mr B hadnt suffered a direct financial loss due to Halifaxs handling of his 
fraud claims. While she acknowledged Halifaxs service had been below the standard wed 
expect, she wasnt persuaded the impact on Mr B was such that it was required to 
compensate him. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
He didnt consider the Investigator had considered his complaint properly  as she hadnt 
commented on Halifaxs failure to respond to both letters hed sent in January 2022 or its 
delay in dealing with the fraudulent transactions that were identified in April. He also 
remained unhappy with the level of service he received from Halifax.  
Before being referred for decision, in an effort to resolve the complaint informally, Halifax 
offered to refund Mr Bs call costs associated with his complaint as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B refused this offer, but our Investigator considered the offer was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, so Id like to explain how I 
reached this conclusion.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that Halifax has reimbursed Mr B for the fraudulent 
transactions and associated interest. So, Im satisfied he hasnt suffered a financial loss 
either because of the fraudulent activity or Halifaxs handling of his complaints that he needs 
to be compensated for. 
Its clear the service Mr B received from Halifax wasnt as good as it should have been. It 
didnt respond to either of his letters and it didnt always call him back when it promised to. 
When Mr B did receive call backs, he was asked to sit on hold to wait for the fraud 
department to become available. Halifax has apologised for its service and offered to cover 
his call costs, but it hasnt offered Mr B any compensation. 
As its been agreed Mr B suffered poor service, I dont need to reach a finding on this. I need 
to decide whether the impact of Halifaxs service was sufficiently serious to warrant a 
compensatory payment in addition to its offer to refund his call costs.
Its important to point out that the Financial Ombudsman doesnt have the power to punish 
businesses. So, even though we may find that a business has failed in some way, this 
doesnt automatically mean the consumer should be compensated. 
For me to decide that Halifax should make an award of compensation, Id need to see that 
the impact of its mistake on Mr B was more than what someone would expect to experience 
in everyday life. While I accept Mr B was naturally frustrated and annoyed with Halifaxs 
handling of his concerns, Im not persuaded it had a greater impact than the level of 
inconvenience we all experience at times. 
Im also mindful that Mr B would likely have faced some inevitable inconvenience because of 
the fraudulent activity on his card in any event  and ultimately this wasnt Halifaxs fault. While I appreciate it can be frustrating to have to wait on hold for long periods, Halifax 
cannot control the number of calls it receives and sadly the rate of fraud and scams being 
reported to banks is ever increasing, which is adding to the volume of calls received. 
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr B not to receive a response to either of his 
letters from January 2022. But having read his letters it seems his main concern was 
confirming that he hadnt authorised the transactions and ensuring they were removed from 
his account statement. Halifax had already assured Mr B when it spoke to him on 
18 January 2022 that the transactions would be cancelled, and he would be refunded. And 
his credit card statement dated 26 January 2022 confirmed that the refunds had been 
processed as promised. So, I cant see that Mr B was left worrying about this.  
Overall, while I empathise with Mr Bs frustration, I consider Halifaxs offer to refund his call 
costs to account for longer than average waiting times, is sufficient compensation in the 
circumstances. And so, I wont be asking it to compensate him further. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to refund 
Mr Bs call costs associated with his complaint. I do not make any other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman