DRN-3041316
The complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the investment advice he received from Bank of 
Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax) in 2001 and 2009. He also complains about the way in 
which his investments have been handled.
What happened
In 2001, Mr S visited a Halifax branch and applied for a Halifax ISA FTSE 100 Index
Tracking Fund. The account was opened in December 2001 with a sum of £500. In May 
2002, the ISA account was topped up with Mr S depositing a further £500. 
In 2009, Mr S received advice from Halifax to invest into a new stocks and shares ISA. At 
the time of advice Mr S was 56 and working as an electrician. He was earning £1,250 per 
month and after expenses, had £600 in monthly disposable income. Mr S also held various 
cash deposit accounts totalling £22,000 and had a mortgage backed by a £50,000 mortgage 
endowment policy. Mr S says he requested for the 2001 ISA account to be closed in 2009, 
but this wasnt done. Instead, the funds were moved into the new ISA when it opened.
From May 2009 and February 2020, Mr S made regular deposits of £300 a month. In March 
2020, the ISA was encashed for around £43,000 with Mr S approximately receiving £4,000 
less than what he was expecting. 
In July 2020 Mr S complained to Halifax. He was unhappy about having been given less 
money than he thought he would get when he surrendered. He referred to advice he had 
received in 2001 and 2009 and thought the latter advice in 2009 wasnt suitable as the 
investment was too risky. 
Halifax didnt agree. It said no advice was provided in 2001. It gave Mr S information only, so 
the decision to open the ISA in 2001 and top it up in 2002 lay with him. But it did advise him 
in 2009. Halifaxs final response explained it had taken into account Mr S appetite for risk 
and investment experience. As Mr S wanted to achieve a greater potential return than 
deposit-based savings accounts over the longer term, it thought the ISA met his investment 
objectives. So, Halifax rejected the complaint.
Mr S referred the matter to us. In doing so, he also raised concerns about the changing fees 
associated with his 2009 investment and feared Halifax had increased the level of risk of his 
investment, resulting in greater volatility and therefore, a steep drop in value at surrender.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. The 
investigator referred to the 2001 account opening and the 2002 top-up documents which 
said no investment advice had been given. The investigator also considered the suitability of 
the 2009 stocks and shares ISA, and noted it was in line with Mr S investment objectives 
and attitude to risk, so he didnt think it was unsuitable. He thought about the drop in value 
but found the impact of the pandemic on the market meant Mr S return was lower. So, from 
everything hed seen, he couldnt find Halifax at fault as the ISA had operated in the way it 
was designed.
Mr B disagreed. As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advice in 2001 and request to close ISA
Mr S says during a face to face meeting with branch staff in 2001, he was talked through his 
circumstances and given advice to enter into an equity-based ISA. Halifax says the sales 
process didnt include providing advice or recommendation of a product. Its role in Direct 
Offer ISAs was to provide potential investors with information about the plan along with the 
Key Features Document and Terms and Conditions. Halifax says branch staff would often 
help to provide factual information and general answers but not provide advice as to whether 
the ISA was suitable or appropriate.
Ive thought about Mr S testimony. While I dont doubt his recollections of the events, I 
recognise that his branch visit was some 20 years ago. Given the time thats passed, along 
with the fact that there is a dispute about what happened, Ive considered what both parties 
have said as well as the documentary evidence available to decide what I think most likely 
occurred.
I dont doubt that Halifax may have first brought the ISA to Mr S attention, however the Key 
Features document provided before opening the account and the welcome letter that 
followed, set out that the investment was being taken out without investment advice. To my 
mind, the letters make it clear that it was down to Mr S to assess whether the ISA was 
suitable for his circumstances - that Halifax hadnt made a recommendation - and in the 
instance the ISA wasnt suitable, he had 14 days to cancel. As Ive not seen anything else to 
demonstrate that Halifax recommended Mr S take out these ISAs, it follows that Im not 
persuaded its actions could be construed as advice.
Even where no advice is given, Halifax did still have an obligation to provide clear 
information to Mr S during the sales process  so he could make his own decision about the 
suitability of the ISA. Here, the Key Features document explained how the different Direct 
Offer ISAs would operate, the risks involved, a guide to allow consumers to determine what 
ISA would best suit them and steps to directly apply for the account. Taking into account the 
information Ive seen in this instance, Im satisfied the information provided in the account 
opening documents, specifically the ISA Key Features was clear. 
In 2009 Mr S says he requested for this ISA account to be closed. Ive reviewed the 
available information to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. Mr S hasnt 
provided evidence of any other correspondence to show he requested a surrender. So, 
whilst Ive considered Mr S comments, in light of the documents Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded Mr S asked Halifax to close his ISA.
Advice in 2009
In April 2009, the point of sale documents recorded general personal details about Mr S, as 
well as details about this personal and financial circumstances. The form set out Mr S was 
married, employed in full time work, had surplus monthly income and held an investment 
objective of capital growth over the medium to long term, with the potential to achieve better returns than a deposit-based cash account.  Based on the questions Halifax asked, it 
established Mr Ss acceptable level of investment risk as medium.
Halifax recommended Mr S invest £300 a month into a stocks and shares ISA for a minimum 
term of five years. This was split as 29% UK growth fund, 28% Corporate bonds, 28% UK 
equities and 15% in overseas equities. 
Mr S says the advice to invest was unsuitable because of the level of risk it exposed him to.  
I've considered whether the funds Halifax recommended over-exposed Mr S to risk-based 
investments. Taking what we know about Mr S circumstances and objectives into account, I 
dont think Ive seen enough to persuade me that investment advice given here was 
unsuitable. 
Mr S had experience some albeit limited experience in investing in stock market linked 
products through his existing ISA. The fact find suggests he expressed a willingness to take 
this risk in the hope of a better return. Halifaxs recommendation exposed Mr S to the risk of 
financial market fluctuations  72% of his money in this investment was to be invested in 
equity-based products. Specifically, this portion of the investment was put into stock market 
tracker funds, where performance would be linked to how well larger and established UK 
and foreign companies performed. The remainder of the funds were put into bonds, 
representing a lower degree of risk to his money. This was similar in risk to his existing 
investments because it was linked to the performance of financial markets, with no 
protection of the original capital. 
Evidence from the fact find show Mr S had around £22,000 in deposit-based accounts and 
had a disposable monthly income of around £600. Mr S didnt want to make any 
withdrawals, so this would suggest the cash reserves he had was more than enough to 
cover his outgoings for at least the five-year period he was investing for. this info leads you 
to think he was in a reasonable position to take a risk with his savings.
Mr S hadnt voiced any short term need for the money. Instead he had expressed an interest 
in investing over the longer term  this meant it was more likely hed have been able to 
tolerate some of the fluctuation, without the need to access his money at a certain point.
In addition, this was an ongoing monthly contribution rather than a big lump sum. Adding an 
amount gradually that looks affordable seems reasonable given Mr S disposable cash 
position, whilst protecting him from big fluctuations in value at the outset. Im satisfied the 
range of investments provided Mr S the opportunity to meet his objective of higher growth 
through its exposure to the performance of bonds and the stock market.  It exposed him to a 
level of risk he was willing and able to accept whilst providing an opportunity for a portion of 
his money to grow by a greater degree. Therefore, taking account of Mr S circumstances, 
I'm persuaded the amount and the funds invested in was suitable when considered in the 
context of his overall financial position.
Drop in Value at Surrender
Mr S says when he contacted Halifax ON 16 March 2020 to enquire about surrendering this 
ISA, he was told hed receive a figure of £47,000. However, once the funds were encashed, 
he received around £43,000  much less than what hed been initially told.
Halifax denies its made a mistake. It says the figure it provided over the phone was correct 
at the time, however this was 2 days before the surrender form being received. As Mr S 
request reached Halifax on 18 March 2020, his funds were subject to market fluctuations 
that occurred between date the price was given over the phone up until the investment was 
surrendered.  I understand why Mr S wouldve been unhappy to have received the amount he did. The 
total value of the funds had decreased by around £4,000 in mere days. So, Ive thought 
about whether Halifax is responsible for the drop in valuation. 
The fund was mainly invested into UK equities, UK companies and corporate bonds with a 
smaller percentage in overseas equities. Because the funds were primarily equities based it 
means the value can rise and fall on a daily basis. It also means that the funds can suffer 
sudden drops in value if there is a shock to the financial markets  such as the global 
pandemic.
Halifax actioned the surrender the same day as the form was received, so I cant see that it 
delayed the matter. Its also shared evidence to show what the valuation of the funds was 
leading up to surrender. Having reviewed those valuations, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
what Halifax said is incorrect. And as the investigator explained, the values given at the time 
werent guaranteed. During that time, financial markets across the world had fallen 
substantially due to the pandemic. Its just unfortunate that Mr S surrender occurred at a 
time of volatility in the market, which isnt something Halifax had any control over. In light of 
this, Im not persuaded Halifax made an error in the way it dealt with Mr S surrender or the 
amount it paid. 
Changing fees and reclassification of asset share class
Mr S has raised concerns about the fees linked to his 2009 ISA. He says the cost associated 
with managing the funds was fixed at 2%. Halifax has provided copies of the key policy 
documentation and illustrations. This shows each sub fund had its own set percentage that 
would be charged based on the value it held each year. In 2017, Halifax changed the 
amount it applied. Ive seen a copy of the letter Halifax issued to Mr S in September 2017. 
The letter states Halifax would be reducing its annual management charge for some of Mr S 
funds from 1.5% to 1.35% of the value it held each year, and that reduction was backdated 
to October 2012. The information Ive seen is sufficiently clear so Im satisfied Mr S wouldve 
been aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, how the fees would apply from the 
outset.
Finally, Mr S suggests Halifax has increased the risk of his funds. As the investigator has 
explained, there have been no changes to Mr S funds  the overall portfolio was a medium 
risk portfolio using a range of higher and lower risk investments. The only changes have 
been to the asset share classes which are in relation to voting rights and not an increased 
exposure to risk.
Whilst I appreciate Mr S frustration, taking into account all the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded Halifax has done anything wrong in the circumstances. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman