DRN-3480775
The complaint
Mr G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2014, Mr G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr G decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In January 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Gs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr G to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £6,550 to mislead Mr G, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £12,857;
Mr G was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £857.16 but was not made aware 
that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of £208.92;
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments;
the system would not cost Mr G a penny; and 
there would be a ten year warranty on the inverter.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr G or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. It said that the system was actually performing 
much better than P had estimated at the point of sale.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It argued that it was not plausible that 
Mr G would have taken out a 15 year loan in circumstances where he would be in deficit for 
each of those 15 years, unless the salesman had lied to him about the financial returns he 
could expect from the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr G could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr G says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with Mr Gs testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr G, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Gs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr G was told that the overall cost of the system was 
£12,857.40. The credit agreement makes it clear that the cash price of the system is £6,550. 
It sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge 
for credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £12,857.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Gs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr G more than the cash price as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Cost vs benefits
It Is not in dispute that Mr G was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by a combination of his FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. The 
quote says as much: the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £1,059.17. 
This works out as £88.26 a month. On a later page the quote states that the monthly loan 
repayments are £71.43, so the overall benefits from the system were expected to be enough 
to pay for the loan from the start.
This is set out clearly in a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three 
tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on 
the table for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr G entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £71.43. For 
each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£71.43, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a positive figure for every year of the loan, 
meaning that the system would make enough money to cover the loan payments from the 
beginning of the loan to the end.The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the systems 
estimated performance over 20 years. This shows that within six years the overall benefits 
that Mr G could expect to receive would cover the cash price of the system.
(The same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement would 
be reached within ten years, although that amount is not shown in the quote but only in the 
loan agreement.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr G that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 6 years, and for the loan in about 10 years, as supported by the tables above, which 
were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this 
was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then 
that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because Mr G has actually had an annual deficit of £208.92.1 So 
to see why that is, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this 
is in line with the contract between P and Mr G.
Performance
The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,821 kWh a year. 
I have looked at Mr Gs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,694 kWh a year. This is considerably more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale  about 131%  so Im satisfied that the system is performing much better than 
expected.
So if the system is not performing as well as was estimated in terms of pounds sterling, it is 
not because it is not performing properly in terms of kWh. It must be something else. So 
I have considered why that may be.
Mr Gs FIT statements show that he received about £666 in FIT payments for the year from 
March 2017 to March 2018. This is significantly more than was estimated  120%  since 
the quote said he would receive about £556 in the first year. But its still a bit short of the 
131% that would be expected if the financial returns were in proportion to the generated 
energy.
The estimated savings on Mr Gs electricity bills in year one were £355.23. It is impossible to 
properly assess whether that was a reasonable estimate without considering his electricity 
bills, which I dont have, but it does not seem like an unusual figure. So I have no reason to 
doubt that it was a fair estimate.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases 
have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr G 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr G could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr G entered into the contract.
1 No evidence of this alleged deficit has been provided, since Mr G says he is unable to provide his 
electricity bills, due to having changed his provider four times. But for the purposes of the next section 
of this decision, I have assumed that this is true.
The warranty on the inverter
The quote also contains the terms and conditions of the contract (see page 14). Paragraph 
15a of the terms and conditions clearly says there is a ten year warranty on the inverter. 
I have seen no evidence to suggest that anyone at P has told Mr G that this is in fact not the 
case. If at some point in the future Mr G tries to rely on this warranty and he is told (within 
ten years of the point of sale) that he does not have it or cannot use it, then this service can 
consider a complaint about that when it is made. But there is currently no reason to suppose 
that this is likely to happen.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr G to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman