DRN-2008717
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL). St Andrews Insurance Plc 
have accepted responsibility for the sale.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint mortgage in 2006. In February 2009 Mr and Mrs M were sold a  
PPI policy to protect their repayments if they became unemployed. The benefit was split so 
that in the event of a successful claim, Mr M wouldve received 70% of the monthly benefit 
amount and Mrs M wouldve received 30%. This would have been paid for up to 12 months 
per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They say that they werent aware they had the policy, there is no 
proof they consented to the cover and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The sale took place over 10 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs M were sold the policy over the phone. HIIL had to make it clear the policy was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs M chose to take it. Mr and Mrs M say this wasnt done but they 
havent given much detail about why they thought this, which I think is understandable as the 
policy was sold a while ago. So to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what the 
documents from the time show.
I have seen a copy of the information pack that was sent to Mr and Mrs M following the 
phone call. Mr and Mrs M have confirmed it was correctly addressed and havent given any 
reason as to why they might not have received it. Within the pack is a letter thanking them 
for choosing HIIL PPI, a demands and needs statement and schedule of cover.
The personal information recorded in these documents  such as dates of birth and income, 
current cover  I think suggests that there was a conversation between Mr and Mrs M and a 
HIIL advisor. It also suggests that some time was spent discussing their circumstances and 
whether they wished to arrange cover to protect their mortgage payments. 
I note that accident and sickness as well unemployment cover was recommended for Mr and 
Mrs M but only unemployment cover was taken. And because the benefit split wasnt equal - 
at 70% for Mr M and 30% for Mrs M - I think its likely PPI and Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances and needs were discussed. 
 
So I think it is likely Mr and Mrs M had PPI covering them for unemployment only because 
they chose this level of cover. I think if there hadnt been any discussion about PPI and Mr 
and Mrs M hadnt agreed to take the policy they wouldve questioned why they received 
information pack for it and why monthly direct debit payments were coming out of their bank 
account. 
And because the policy was taken to cover a mortgage they already had in place I think it is 
likely Mr and Mrs M wouldve understood they didnt have to take the cover and could cancel 
it if they so wished. 
HIIL advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the PPI. What this means is that HIIL not only had to 
provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs M 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HIIL did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy overall was a 
suitable recommendation for them for the following reasons:
They were both eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like they wouldve been 
caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs M say they had cash savings they could use to 
make their mortgage payments if they lost their jobs. But a successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer for up to 12 months 
per claim. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs M in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it which they 
did after six months. 
I also need to consider whether HIIL gave Mr and Mrs M information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out.
I can see the cost of the policy was clear from the information pack. But I dont know if HIIL 
gave all the proper information as it shouldve. But even if there were problems with the 
information and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what 
Mr and Mrs M have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still 
taken out the PPI policy given the proper information. This means Mr and Mrs M arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by HIIL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against St Andrews 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman