DRN-1993959
The complaint
Mr I complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled a claim on his car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr I was involved in a car accident, so he called esure. He told them hed been hit from 
behind by another car so didnt think he was at fault for the accident. esure told Mr I he had 
the option of a courtesy car which would be provided by the repairing garage, and this would 
be a small three door hatchback. The other option was for him to be provided with a hire car 
which would be like for like, but it would be down to the rental company if theyd provide one. 
Mr I said hed prefer a like for like car, so esure passed his details onto the third party hire 
company, who Ill refer to as A. 
A couple of weeks later esure told Mr I it was likely he would be held liable for the accident. 
He was also told that he might be liable for the hire car costs as the claim was likely to be 
recorded as fault. Mr I wasnt happy about this and complained to esure. He said hed been 
given conflicting information about whether hed have to pay the hire car costs, and if hed 
known this originally, he wouldnt have taken it. He also said he had the hassle of changing 
between the hire car and courtesy car which meant he didnt have a car for two days.   
esure looked into Mr Is complaint and said that its advisors had given correct information 
about the hire car. However, esure did agree the situation would have been upsetting and 
offered £150 compensation. This was to compensate Mr I for the two days he didnt have a 
car for, when he changed from the hire car to the courtesy car, and also the additional 
insurance hed paid for these cars when he hadnt needed too. Mr I didnt think this was 
good enough and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Is complaint and found that esure had given conflicting 
information to him. He didnt think esures offer of £150 was enough compensation for this 
and recommended esure increase it to £250. 
esure didnt agree. It said Mr I had been given correct information, and it wasnt esures fault 
if he hadnt read As terms and conditions and decided to call esure instead. esure also said 
Mr I had continued to call up after being told the correct information so had caused any 
confusion by doing so. 
As esure didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noticed Mr I is also unhappy about being held at fault for the accident. In this decision Im 
only considering the information esure gave around the hire car and not whether esures 
decision on the outcome of Mr Is claim is correct. If Mr I would like to complain about that, it 
would need to be done separately. 
When looking into this complaint I can only consider the actions of esure, Ive therefore not 
looked at the actions of A. Ive considered esures point about Mr Is agreement being with A.  
While it might have been useful for Mr I to call A, he chose to call esure instead. This is 
understandable as esure are his insurer, and the company who referred him to A. esure also 
have a responsibility to make sure it provides Mr I with correct and clear information. So, Ive 
looked at whether thats happened here.  
Ive listened to the calls between esure and Mr I and while they technically havent given 
incorrect information. Im not satisfied esure have provided Mr I with clear information 
regarding the hire car with A and whether he would be responsible for paying for it. 
I say this because when Mr I first became aware he could be held liable for the accident, 
esure told him that A wouldnt pursue him for the hire car costs. Mr I then read the terms and 
conditions of the hire agreement with A and called esure back as he was concerned that he 
could be pursued for these costs. At this point the cost was likely to be over £2,000 and Mr I 
was understandably worried about this. 
In different calls with esure, Mr Is told he wouldnt be liable for the hire car costs and also 
that he might be liable. An advisor also tells Mr I the previous advisor gave him incorrect 
information, when he was told he wouldnt be liable for these costs. While the information 
given out isnt technically incorrect, there is conflicting information given, and as an advisor 
told him another advisor has given out incorrect information, Im satisfied incorrect 
information has been given.  
As Im satisfied esure gave conflicting and incorrect information Ive looked at the impact this 
had on Mr I. As soon as Mr I thought he might be liable for the hire car costs he returned the 
car, on the advice of esure. He then had to wait two days until the repairing garage could 
provide him a courtesy car. During this time he was also worried that he might be liable for 
these costs and how he would afford them. 
Im therefore satisfied by esure giving conflicting information, its caused Mr I to suffer 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and should compensate him for this. I also think 
£250 is fair compensation for this. This is because Mr I had the hassle of having to arrange 
the return of the hire car, collection of the courtesy car, not have a car for two days and has 
had the worry of thinking he might be liable for the hire car costs. Mr I has said he also has a 
medical condition which the stress of this has made worse.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr I a total of £250 for distress and inconvenience, if not 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman