DRN-2121538
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) sent him an unnecessary text 
message urging him to pay money into his account. He says the message caused him alarm 
and exacerbated his ill health.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all of them 
again here. Instead Ill summarise whats happened so far, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
On 5 December 2019, Mr S received a text message from Barclays letting him know that his 
account was approaching his arranged overdraft limit, and urging him to pay funds into his 
account that day to avoid any charges. Mr S says there were no further payments due to 
leave his account until 9 December 2019, so he believes the text message was misleading 
and caused him undue stress and anxiety.
As well as affecting his own ill health, Mr S says the situation has also added stress to other 
family members from whom he borrowed money to pay into his Barclays account. 
Barclays offered Mr S £25 for the upset the situation caused him, but it didnt agree that it 
shouldnt have sent the text message to Mr S. It also offered him £20 to cover the cost of 
approximately two hours spent on the phone dealing with the issue.
Mr S didnt accept Barclays offer, and instead chose to bring his complaint to this service. 
He has repeatedly requested that Barclays pays him £10,000 compensation, as well as 
appointing a panel of medical professional to review the wording of its text messages. 
Neither Barclays nor our investigator agreed with this proposal.
Mr S also says that one of Barclays representatives was rude, as they discussed 
compensation for this complaint even though he hadnt mentioned it previously. Barclays 
accepted that it shouldnt have done this, and it offered Mr S £50 which I understand Mr S 
has accepted. 
After reviewing everything, our investigator didnt agree that Barclays had acted unfairly by 
sending the text message to Mr S. In summary, he concluded that it wasnt Barclays 
intention to distress Mr S, although he appreciated that given the circumstances, it did. He 
also thought the £50 Barclays had paid Mr S adequately compensated him for the poor 
service hed received. But he didnt recommend that Barclays do anything else to put things 
right.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. As the matter hasnt been resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr S has provided, in great detail, information about his recent poor health. Id like to start by 
thanking Mr S for providing such personal information and assure him Ive kept his 
circumstances in mind when reaching my decision. But to protect Mr Ss identity, I wont 
discuss any of the specific medial information Ive been provided. 
I havent been told that Barclays was aware of Mr Ss medial conditions and personal 
circumstances. So I cant hold it responsible for any additional stress it caused him by 
sending the text message, and the unfortunate timing of that message. And in any case, Mr 
S had chosen to receive text messages from Barclays in relation to his balance.
Whilst Barclays was dealing with Mr Ss complaint, I note that one of its complaint handlers 
offered to deactivate the text message alert service, to avoid any further texts being sent to 
Mr S. Mr S declined this suggestion, stating that he does in fact find the alerts useful. It 
appears that Mr S opted out of the alerts at a later date, on or around 30 December 2019, as 
no further messages were sent after that date.
Barclays has provided information on each of the different text messages it sends, and the 
reasons it sends each type of message. The message that Mr S was sent, which urges the 
customer to credit their account today, is sent when the customers balance is within 10% of 
its agreed overdraft limit. On the day the text message was sent Mr Ss account was £9.70 
overdrawn, with an agreed overdraft limit of £10. So the account had fallen within 10% of its 
agreed limit, and Barclays sent the message that it should have. I cant tell Barclays to 
change its processes or the wording of its messages, and in this instance, it acted in line 
with its own processes in terms of the message that it sent and the reason that it sent it. In 
fact Id be more concerned if Barclays hadnt sent the message when it should have, as this 
could have led to more severe financial implications.
I agree it may not always be necessary to credit the account the same day as the message 
is received. And its evident that in Mr Ss case, he didnt need to do this. But its also worth 
bearing in mind that some transactions can take a number of days to debit an account  
such as payments made by debit card. I appreciate this wasnt the case here, and so I 
understand why Mr S was alarmed at receiving the text message when he did. But I do think 
Barclays intentions were helpful as opposed to intending to cause unnecessary alarm. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable or wrong for Barclays to send the message as part of the 
alert service that Mr S had opted in to.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and I appreciate he is unlikely to agree with my findings, but for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. I think that the £50 Barclays has 
paid adequately compensates Mr S for the assuming that he was looking for compensation 
when he hadnt mentioned it. 
But Barclays didnt act unfairly by sending the text message to Mr S. So I dont require 
Barclays to do anything further to put things right.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman