The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the handling of her motor insurance claim by Allianz Insurance Plc. 
What happened
Ms D had a motor insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. In 2017, she was driving her car 
and was involved in a road traffic accident. A third party pedestrian was injured during the 
accident. Ms D contacted Allianz, who took on the claim. 
Ms D initially faced criminal charges for driving without due care and attention. Allianz 
instructed a legal defence team on her behalf. And, although Ms D has expressed 
dissatisfaction with the service she received from her legal team, she was found not guilty. 
The third party continued to seek damages from Ms D for the injuries sustained. Having 
taken legal advice, Allianz made an offer to settle this claim for damages, which was 
ultimately agreed by the third party. However, Allianz had not told Ms D that this was what it 
was doing until after the settlement was made.
Ms D was unhappy about this. She felt that Allianz had admitted liability on her behalf. Ms D 
did not consider she was at fault for the accident and that Allianz shouldn't have made this 
decision. 
Allianz apologised for not having informed Ms D of its intention to settle the claim, and 
offered her £100 for this. But Allianz said that the terms of the insurance policy allowed it 
decide how to settle the claim. And that the claim was settled prior to any civil hearing and 
no admission of liability was made to the third party.
Ms D remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator agreed 
with Allianz though. He felt the policy allowed Allianz to settle the claim and that, as the legal 
advice it had received indicated the civil claim would be successful, Allianz decision was fair 
and reasonable.
Ms D was not satisfied with this though. She felt the settlement made it look like she was 
liable for the accident, whereas Ms D did not consider she was to blame. She said she had 
not made contact with the third party, who had stepped out in front of her. Ms D's case has 
been therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have limited this decision to focussing on what I consider to be the key issues of this 
complaint. For example, Ms D has raised concerns about her criminal defence team, but I 
DRN-1764303will not be commenting on this aspect. My role is to determine whether or not Allianz acted 
fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the claim for damages made by the third party.
I should also note, it is not my role to decide whether or not Ms D was liable for the accident. 
This is also true of Allianz in this case.
Allianz, like all insurers in a similar position, must consider whether a third party claim is 
likely to be successful and, if so, how to limit any potential damages that might be payable. 
In doing so, it is likely we would expect the insurer to take into account the relevant evidence 
and to be guided by experts. In this case, the expert guidance would include that provided by 
Allianz legal advisers. 
The legal advice that Allianz received would enable them to decide whether the possibility of 
losing the claim justified the increased cost of defending it. There is strong evidence that Ms 
D's car had not made contact with the third party. But Allianz was advised that, regardless of 
whether or not contact was made, the claim had a high probability of success.
I appreciate Ms D's references to the findings in the criminal proceedings that took place. 
But those merely found that it had not been proven, beyond reasonable doubt, that she had 
been driving without due care and attention. Whereas, in its most basic terms, the issue to 
be decided in the civil claim would have been whether Ms D had caused, on the balance of 
probability, the third party to be injured. The advice Allianz received indicated this would 
likely be the case where the matter to go to court. 
Having received such advice I consider it fair and reasonable that Allianz chose to settle the 
claim at the point it did, prior to any hearing. Settling the claim in this manner was within its 
rights and this is confirmed by the wording of the insurance policy. The relevant term states:
"General conditions
SUBSECTION 4: Making a claim...
(b) The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers expense 
in Your name or in the name of any other person insured by this Insurance 
Document:
(i) the negotiation defence or settlement of any claim..."
I do think it would have been good customer service for Allianz to have informed Ms D of its 
intention to settle the claim, prior to it actually doing so. This would have avoided the upset 
caused to Ms D on learning this after the fact. However, Allianz wasn't actually obliged to 
inform Ms D of this. And, by employing Allianz in respect of the claim, she had agreed that 
they could deal with the claim as per the policy wording above. So I consider Allianz's offer 
of £100 in relation to this customer service aspect to be appropriate. 
I appreciate Ms D feels that, by making an offer, Allianz has indicated she was liable for the 
third parties injuries. However, the claim was settled without an admission of liability. It is, I 
understand, common practice for civil claims to be settled prior to any court action without 
any admission on liability.  
I recognise Ms D's strength of feeling in that she does not consider she was at fault for the 
accident. But the settling of the third party's claim in this manner does not mean that any 
fault has actually been admitted. And the settling of a claim in this way is common practice 
for insurers. As long as the terms of the policy allow the insurer to settle and the decision to settle has 
been made fairly and reasonably, an insurer will likely not have acted inappropriately by 
agreeing such a settlement. In this case, the terms of the policy Ms D had with Allianz gave 
the insurer the ability to settle the claim. And Allianz's decision was made following legal 
advice to settle. As such, I consider Allianz acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman