Page 1 of 2The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) have failed to act on his 
communication requirement on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr W is unable to read correspondence without a yellow background and he
informed esure of this on multiple occasions.
esure apologised and said that some of their correspondence is automated and
therefore it cant amend it to Mr Ws requirements before its sent. Although if
contacted on receipt, it can then resend it in the required format.
esure paid Mr W £100 compensation and allowed him to cancel his policy with it,
without any fees.
Our investigator said that was a fair outcome to the complaint, although he
recognised how frustrating the situation was for Mr W.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome and maintained that it still needed to be
reviewed.
As Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to
make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident that Mr W has made esure aware of his requirement on several occasions and I 
can certainly appreciate his frustration at having to keep raising the same issue with it.
As our investigator explained, esure have currently no way of intercepting correspondence 
thats automatically generated. So, whilst its aware of Mr Ws requirements, it cant always 
fulfil them.
So that Mr W doesnt have to continue with the same experience, esure have allowed Mr W 
to exit their policy without any fees or impact on him going forward. esure have also paid Mr 
DRN-4322024Page 2 of 2W £100 compensation for whats happened. So, whilst Mr W may choose not to continue his 
policy with esure, his cancellation wont impact him.
I wouldve expected esure to have offered compensation for whats happened on this 
complaint and the amount it has paid I am satisfied is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman