DRN-4324466
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan Metro Bank PLCs subsidiaries (Ratesetter) arranged for 
him. 
Metro Bank has accepted responsibility for this complaint even though it was arranged by 
Ratesetter in 2019. So for ease of reference, I will refer to Ratesetter in this decision.
Mr P says that the loan that was arranged for him was unaffordable and therefore shouldnt 
have been provided.
Background
In August 2019, Ratesetter operated the electronic platform in relation to lending which led to 
Mr P being provided with a loan for £7,500.00. This loan had a 60- month term and an APR 
of 18.9%. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £11,298.00, which included a loan 
fee of £632.25 and interest of £3,165.75, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of 
£188.30. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr P and Ratesetter had told us. And she thought 
that Ratesetter hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly when bringing about this 
loan for Mr P. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. Mr P disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter needed to make sure that it didnt bring about Mr Ps loan irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr P could make his payments in a sustainable manner before 
approving his loan. And if the checks Ratesetter carried out werent sufficient, I then need to 
consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for pre-lending checks to be less thorough 
 in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify that information  
in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think a firm needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, 
the amount lent was high, or the information it had  such as a significantly impaired credit 
history  suggested the firm needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to 
repay what they were being lent. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ps complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. In its view, all of this information showed Mr P 
could comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr P has 
said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Ratesetter have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ps first loan with Ratesetter. The information 
provided does suggest Mr P was asked to provide some details regarding his income and 
expenditure and Ratesetter didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out credit 
searches too. Ratesetter has provided a copy of the credit search that it carried out and its 
fair to say that Mr Ps existing credit was relatively well managed. 
Id also add that I dont agree Mr Ps existing balances was in itself an indication of difficulty 
given his income and the fact that he stated that the purpose of this loan was debt 
consolidation. I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the information Ratesetter obtained. However, 
Ratesetter could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available 
at the time. 
So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce  
Mr Ps existing balances. And I dont think it fair and reasonable to hold Ratesetter 
responsible should Mr P have decided against using this loan to repay his existing balances 
in the way that he committed to. 
I say this as this was a first loan Ratesetter was bringing about for Mr P and there wasnt a 
history of him obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he 
committed to. So Im satisfied that Ratesetter was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr P 
would use the loan for the stated purpose and be left in a better position.
I also think that its important for me to explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I think that Ratesetter was 
entitled to rely on what it had been told and what it had found out. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when bringing about         
Mr Ps loan - it carried out proportionate checks (although I accept Mr P doesnt agree with 
this) and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Ratesetter treated   
Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when bringing about his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman