DRN-3452838
The complaint
Mr H complains about an excess mileage charge BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) was seeking the payment of after he voluntary terminated his hire purchase
agreement with it.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr H acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £43,146.79. Mr H was required to
make an advance payment of £2,850.00 followed by 47 monthly payments of £536.80. 
There was a final optional payment of £15,067.19 if Mr H wished to buy the car at the end of 
the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr H had the right to terminate the agreement at any time
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this
was £21,573.40.
In early 2021 Mr H enquired about terminating the agreement early. In response BMWFS
wrote to him to say that he could do so, but an excess mileage charge and damage charges 
might be payable.
Mr H decided he wanted to go ahead with terminating the agreement early and 
arrangements were made for the same and for the car to be collected.
In May 2021, after the car had been collected, BMWFS says it sent Mr H an invoice for 
£349.56 in respect of excess mileage. The sum of £349.56 was broken down on the face of 
the invoice as follows:
contract months completed 41
pro rata mileage 41,000 (41/48 x 48,000)
recorded mileage 44,204
excess mileage 3,204
charge £349.56 (3,204 x 10.91 pence)
The agreement set out that Mr H had an annual mileage allowance of 12,000 and a total
mileage allowance of 48,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could
charge him 10.91 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the
time the car was on hire.
Mr H says he didnt receive the excess mileage charge invoice sent in May 2021 and the first 
he was aware BMWFS were seeking recovery of the sum of £349.56 from him was when he 
received an email from its collections department on 29 July 2021. Mr H says he responded 
to this email (immediately) to say he didnt think the charge of £349.56 was enforceable.
On 30 August 2021 Mr H says he received an arrears letter/payment demand from BMWFS 
collections department, which he didnt pay.
On 6 September 2021 Mr H says he received an acknowledgement from BMWFS 
complaints department regarding his complaint. And on receipt of this letter he took the 
decision to disregard BMWFS 30 August 2021 arrears letter/payment demand. In other 
words, he didnt pay.
In September 2021 BMWFS says it sent Mr H a final response letter (FRL) not upholding 
his complaint. Mr H says he didnt receive this.
Between October 2021 and January 2022 inclusive Mr H says he received from BMWFS five 
further arrears letters/payment demands identical in content to the one he received dated 
30 August 2021 (out of 12 BMWFS system notes record were sent between August 2021 
and January 2022 inclusive) none of which he paid. Mr H says these went unpaid because 
having raised a complaint (which as far as he was concerned was still under investigation), 
he felt he could simply file them away.
On 12 January 2022 it came to Mr Hs attention that BMWFS had reported his agreement, to 
one or more third party credit reference agencies, as being in arrears.
On 19 January 2022, and now having received a copy of BMWFS FRL, Mr H took the 
decision to pay it the sum of £349.56 and to complain to our service.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
shouldnt be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage
charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around
the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Hs agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the
total price of the agreement. Mr Hs accrued liability under S100 therefore included
paying an additional amount of £349.56.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost.
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
The investigator then went on to say that in his view BMWFS had done nothing wrong in 
how it had communicated with Mr H and it had done nothing wrong in reporting, what it had 
when it had, to one or more third party credit reference agencies.
Mr H disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Therefore, the
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement
allowed Mr H use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of
£15,067.19. While Mr H was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set
out what would happen should Mr H not meet those requirements.
Mr H exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more.
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement,
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess
mileage or other charges are due.
In this case Mr H accepts that he was required to pay at least £21,573.40 to voluntary
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £349.56 that has
been added on top of this figure.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in
his case, that was £21,573.40. Various sections of the agreement Mr H had with BMWFS
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage
charges or  other charges may increase the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply an excess mileage charge on early termination 
will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what 
Ive to decide is was the agreement Mr H entered into constructed in a way as to allow the 
charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding 
voluntary termination? In Mr Hs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr H is liable to pay
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Hs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any
excess mileage charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Hs
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary
sets out that so long as Mr H has paid at least half the total amount payable under the
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding
the mileage might apply.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been
constructed has prejudiced Mr H.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr H is liable to pay the
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under
S99 of the CCA.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in
seeking from him £349.56 in respect of excess mileage.
Now I appreciate that Mr H says he didnt receive BMWFS May 2021 excess mileage 
charge invoice and its September 2021 FRL, but I only need to be satisfied these were sent, 
not that they were received. And having seen copies of these two documents (correctly 
addressed) and having had regard to BMWFS system notes and what it has told us, Im 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that both documents were sent.
I will now turn to what BMWFS has reported with one or more third party credit reference 
agencies and whether this reporting was, in all the circumstances, right, fair and reasonable. 
I cant see that BMWFS has done anything wrong, or acted unfairly or unreasonably, in 
reporting what it has to one or more third party credit reference agencies. First, Im satisfied 
that what it has reported is accurate. So that leaves me to consider whether that reporting 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr H himself accepts that between July 2021 and January 2022 (inclusive) he received six 
arrears letters/payment demands that he decided to ignore and between April 2021 and 
June 2021 (inclusive) he received various other letters/documentation saying an excess 
milage charge was or might be payable. And BMWFS submits that between April 2021 and 
January 2022 (inclusive) it sent, amongst other things, one excess mileage invoice, one FRL 
and 12 arrears letters/payment demands.In my view given what BMWFS says it sent, what Im persuaded BMWFS sent and what 
Mr H himself says he received Im satisfied that BMWFS acted entirely fairly and reasonably 
in reporting what it did to one or more third party credit reference agencies. 
Now I note that Mr H says he ignored the six arrears letters/payment demands that he says 
he received because as far as he was concerned his complaint about the excess mileage 
charge was still under investigation. But that was his choice and Im not persuaded it was an 
appropriate course of action to take. In my view Mr H could and should have contacted 
BMWFS to establish what its position on the matter was and certainly contacted it before he 
did so in January 2022, particularly given he received a complaint acknowledgement letter 
from BMWFS in early September 2021 confirming to him that it had eight weeks from the 
date he first complained (in late July 2021) to issue a FRL  eight weeks from late July 2021  
being late September 2021.
I would also add that if financial businesses were unable to report information to credit 
reference agencies that was being disputed by a consumer (whether on legal, regulatory or 
fairness grounds) then confidence in what credit reference agencies hold and share (in 
particular with businesses looking to grant credit) would be seriously undermined. Also, Mr H 
could have always paid BMWFS the sum it was seeking recovery of and then complained 
about having to do so (first to BMWFS and then our service). 
Finally, I can see that Mr H says he is unhappy with how his complaint was handled. But Im 
not persuaded BMWFS did anything wrong in this respect. I say this because I can see that 
BMWFS acknowledged Mr Hs complaint and issued a FRL within eight weeks as required 
under its regulatory obligations. I would also add that having issued Mr H with a FRL 
BMWFS was entitled to not enter into any further communication with him about his 
complaint and simply refer him (as it did in its FRL) to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman