DRN-3802331
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has unfairly treated him in 
relation to a business bank account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M holds a business account with RBS. RBS sent many letters to Mr M requesting 
he provide certain information within a set timeframe, and these said if he failed to do 
so it would close the account. RBS has also contacted Mr M on the phone about this.
Mr M said he provided the requested information on numerous occasions, yet RBS 
continued with this request repeatedly for a prolonged period. So, he complained.
In January 2021, RBS wrote to Mr M with its final response. It apologised for any 
distress and inconvenience caused for making Mr M repeat himself. It offered £150 
for his time spent, and £250 in compensation. And it offered to reimburse 
accountancy costs as a goodwill gesture upon receipt of these costs.
The complaint was brought to this Service and our Investigator explained why she 
was only able to consider the matter from November 2019 onwards for reasons 
related to our jurisdiction.
The Investigator upheld the complaint. She said RBS acted fairly in requesting the 
information initially as this was part of its due diligence and carrying out of its 
regulatory requirements. But she said another six letters to this effect were sent 
across 2019 and 2020 which was a mistake on RBS part due to internal workloads.
She said RBS had confirmed it had all of the information it needed, and there was 
nothing further Mr M would need to provide. And its offer of £400 and to reimburse 
his accountancy fees was fair in the circumstances.
Mr M responded to say his business profile still showed the information in question 
was under review. And he said he would not accept the view until it confirmed this 
was complete as he wanted confirmation the information requests would end.
RBS responded, and said upon its review meant it actually did require further 
information from Mr M. Our Investigator communicated this to Mr M, he provided the 
information and it was passed to RBS.
Our Investigator reconsidered the complaint in light of this development, and said 
RBS should award an additional £75 on top of its previous offer.
Both parties accepted the view, and Mr M also provided his accountancy fees of 
£500 plus VAT which was shared with RBS.
RBS later responded to say it did not agree to refund accountancy costs and it was 
unclear on what basis it would be liable for them.
Mr M says RBS paid him £75 following this but nothing else  nor did it change his 
business profile to complete.
So, the matter was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 4 November 2022. Ive included an extract of this below.
RBS requested information from Mr M. He hasnt refused to provide it. And hes 
seemingly provided this same information on a number of occasions.
RBS has acknowledged that it has requested this information on a number of 
occasions as a mistake. So, its clear to me RBS has made a mistake.
RBS previously told our Service it didnt need anything further from Mr M and that it 
had stopped making requests, and would change his business profile to complete. It 
then changed its position and requested further information  which Mr M swiftly 
provided. Yet, the matter still appears outstanding now and Mr M hasnt had a 
resolution on this matter  reporting of the issue still ongoing.
Given the timescales involved (RBS had previously agreed to resolve these issues 
well over a year ago), and the nature of this repeated issue only compounding Mr Ms 
frustration over time, Im minded to increase the compensation here again  
awarding Mr M an additional £200 on top of the previous compensation award.
This comes to £675. I understand Mr M has received £75 of this already. RBS can 
deduct from this overall award any sums already paid.
RBS had previously told Mr M, in relation to his accountancy costs if you can provide 
me evidence on these costs I will reimburse these costs as a good will gesture. 
These have been shared with RBS previously, and Ive asked for them to be 
attached again to this decision. They total £500 plus VAT. I intend to direct RBS to 
settle this sum in line with its previous goodwill gesture.
It is for RBS to determine whether it has carried out sufficient due diligence and 
regulatory requirements, and I dont intend on interfering with that. However, its clear 
to me that Mr M has been patient and has provided what information has been asked 
of him. And I would expect RBS to be able to simply tell Mr M if there is any 
outstanding information that is required, which he can then provide, that will allow 
RBS to bring this matter to a close and hopefully avoid any further unnecessary 
requests and inconvenience. And Im going to direct it to do this within 28 days of my 
final decision. If the matter does not get resolved, Mr M may bring a separate 
complaint about any events that follow this decision.
Both parties have now replied with their thoughts. Mr M agreed with my decision but outlined 
the extent of the calls hed had with RBS, and the efforts made. RBS said:
It had paid £400 of the compensation in July 2022 following Mr Ms further complaint. 
It provided a copy of internal screenshots which supported this. 
So, it said the remaining compensation owed was the additional £200 I had awarded 
within my provisional decision.
It asked for the accountants invoice to be re-sent once more.
It confirmed its business review was still not concluded, and it appeared there was 
still outstanding requirements that needed to be met in order for RBS to satisfy its 
legal and regulatory requirements. It said it had reached out to its review team and 
they would contact Mr M directly to bring the matter to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has agreed with my decision but asked me to reconsider the compensation award.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr M has made, and the frustration this matter has 
caused him over the period. Its clear to me RBS hasnt provided good service to him in this 
case, and the matter seems to have become unnecessarily prolonged. Having done so 
however, Im still satisfied the total sum of compensation amounting to £675 is fair and 
reasonable sum in the circumstances.
As RBS has accepted all of my directions, Im satisfied my provisional decision outlines my 
position so Ive no further comments to make. The accountancy invoice in question will be 
shared again alongside this decision
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must:
Pay Mr M £675 in compensation in total. It can deduct from this any compensatory 
sums already paid  of which I believe it has now paid £475.
Settle Mr Ms accountants invoice.
Within 28 days of Mr M accepting a final decision, RBS must tell Mr M if there is any 
outstanding information that it requires, which he can then provide, that will allow 
RBS to bring this matter to a close.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman