DRN-3996488
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (Barclays) didnt treat her fairly when it reported adverse information on her credit 
file regarding a loan account.
What happened
Mrs O took out a loan with Barclays to pay for an online purchase in May 2021. The loan 
was to be repaid with 36 monthly payments of £42.94. Mrs O made her agreed monthly 
payments in June, July and August. I understand that the payments were made via direct 
debit and standing order. 
Mrs O didnt make any payments in September, October or November 2021. As a result of 
this, Barclays issued a Notice of Default latter to Mrs O on the 21 November. This gave her 
until the 24 December 2021 to clear the arrears of £128.82. Mrs O didnt pay the arrears in 
time and Barclays reported the account as defaulted to the credit reference agencies.
Mrs O complained to Barclays about this. She said she was abroad at the time dealing with 
family matters and was in ill health. Shed asked Barclays to grant her son access to her 
account so he could deal with it in her absence. Mrs O says that her son was repeatedly 
denied access to the account and was unable to make payments to it. Mrs O also says that 
she was given incorrect information about the account in early 2022 and didnt learn that her 
account was in default until several months later. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. It said it applied the default correctly because it 
sent her notice of the arrears on her account and explained what would happen if she didnt 
clear these.
Mrs O was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it but didnt uphold it because they found that Barclays had acted 
correctly when it reported the account as defaulted. Mrs O asked for her complaint to come 
to an ombudsman for review and its come to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure both parties that I have considered everything when coming to this 
decision and if I dont refer to certain details its because Ive commented on what I consider 
to be the main points. 
Ill begin by sharing what Mrs O told us about her experience. Mrs O told us that she lost her 
husband and was in ill health when these events with Barclays took place. I am sorry to hear 
of Mrs Os loss and that things have been so difficult for her. Mrs O told us that shed taken 
out previous loans with Barclays and during the process shed filled out the necessary forms 
to have her son added to these accounts. She was often out of the country and wanted her 
son to look after her financial affairs in her absence. Mrs O said that when she took out this 
particular loan in May 2021 she called Barclays several times to ensure that the 
authorisation for her son was applicable to all her accounts, including this one. Mrs O says 
she was assured this was the case. 
Mrs O acknowledged that Barclays sent letters to her home address from September to 
December 2021. She said she may not have received every piece of correspondence but 
she was aware of the arrears on the account. Mrs O explained that the problem she had was 
not a lack of awareness of the arrears or a lack of the means to repay them. The issue for 
her was that, unlike her other accounts with Barclays, her son was not authorised for access 
to this particular account therefore he was consistently denied access to the account for 
payment purposes from September to December 2021.
Mrs O said that she returned to the UK for a time in January 2022. She had an extended 
telephone conversation with Barclays then which resulted in her son being given access to 
this account. Mrs O also said that she was given the bank details of the account to enable 
bank transfer payments. It was possible to make payments to the account by bank transfer 
without having authorised access to it. Mrs O said that she has no idea why this option 
wasnt offered sooner. 
Barclays said that its process for registering an authorised third party is account specific and 
the delegated authority forms Mrs O would have completed relate to one account only. 
Barclays also said that whether or not Mrs O had delegated the authority of this account to 
her son wasnt of relevance to the complaint. Mrs Os son was always free to make 
payments towards his mothers account, without having been registered as having any 
authority for it. Any third party who wished to may payments into the account could call a 
customer service line and give their debit card details for the payment and advise which 
account they wanted to make the payment to. There is no record of Mrs Os son attempting 
to make payments to his mothers account before the account was defaulted on 24 
December 2021. 
I appreciate that will be very disappointing for Mrs O but having considered everything 
carefully I am not upholding her complaint. 
Mrs O told us that she was aware of the account arrears but wasnt able to make payments 
due to her son not having authority on the account and not having the account details. Im 
afraid I cant conclude that the lack of payment to her account in September to November 
2021 was solely down to her son not having authority on the account. The account details 
are shown on the credit agreement and payment could have been made to the account by 
an unauthorised third party via bank transfer from any bank or by telephoning the number 
provided and paying by debit card. These account details were included in the five letters 
sent to Mrs O throughout September to December 2021. I appreciate Mrs O may not have 
received all of the letters but I think its unlikely she didnt receive any of them and she had 
previously made a payment into the account by standing order.
Mrs O said that she had been given incorrect information about her son being a delegated 
authority on the account and shed been incorrectly advised on the telephone call in January 
2022 that her account wasnt in default. She then discovered in April that a default had been 
applied in December 2021. Mrs O said there is no doubt in her mind that shes repeatedly 
been given inaccurate information by Barclays and this has led to her account being 
defaulted. 
I can accept that Mrs O wasnt given full or accurate information about her account at times 
and can understand why she remains unhappy with this experience. However, even if Mrs O 
had been given full and correct information about her account I dont think things would have turned out differently. Mrs O might have taken further action to delegate authority to her son 
had she been told he didnt have it for this account, but Mrs O already had the information 
she needed for a third party to make payments to the account. Mrs O spoke with Barclays in 
January 2022, after the account had been reported as defaulted. Had she been made aware 
of the account status then it would have been too late to have prevented the default being 
applied. So I cant uphold her complaint on the basis that a lack of correct information led to 
her account being defaulted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Mrs Os complaint about 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance and so dont 
require it to take any action regarding this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman