DRN-2359744
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about the increase in premium in relation to its  
group medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. Mr M, who is a director of 
T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. In summary, AXA provides a group medical insurance policy to T. Up to renewal in 
December 2018, there were two policies in the group scheme. After the December 2018 
renewal, one policy remained with four adult members, one of which was Mr M. 
The annual premium quotes for the group policy were as follows: 
1 December 2017: £8,702.68
1 December 2018: £12,514.60
1 December 2019: £18,560.44
In November 2019, Mr M complained to AXA about the renewal premium. Mr M said that 
the increase in premium is exorbitant and extortionate. T wants AXA to reduce the 
premium.
During the course of the complaint, AXA offered T a discretionary loyalty discount of 
£1,237.36, so the 2019-2020 annual premium was reduced to £17,323.08. AXA 
subsequently offered T a further reduction in the renewal premium to £15,600, as a 
gesture of goodwill. It later discovered that it had made a systems error, which meant 
that T paid £13,404.70 for the 2019-2020 policy year and AXA honoured that amount. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had 
treated T unfairly. Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator 
had agreed with AXA based on confidential information which doesnt make him feel that 
hes been treated fairly. Mr M said that insurers can keep customers hostage and are 
free to increase premiums as they see fit. He said that AXA had reduced the 2019 
premium twice, which suggests that the original quote was extortionate. Mr M says that 
this means that individuals must negotiate the premium. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct AXA generally about how it conducts its 
business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has treated T fairly. I think it has 
and Ill explain why.
The contract here is between AXA and T. In general terms, insurers are entitled to 
decide what risks they wish to cover and the premium they wish to charge. 
In the Group Secretary Guide and Annual Agreement, AXA explains that when 
calculating the premium, it takes into account a wide range of factors, such as the 
choice of plan, level of excess, hospital cover level, number of people in the group 
and their ages, the medical underwriting terms and claims information. It says that it 
allocates the group to a rating pool of companies with similar profiles. So, its entitled 
to consider a broad range of factors in calculating the premium. Its for AXA to decide 
what information it gathers and how it assesses that information. 
AXA has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how 
it calculated the renewal premium. Im afraid I cant share that information with T or 
Mr M. I appreciate thats frustrating, but this service doesnt think its unreasonable 
for insurers not to share with policyholders or individuals sensitive commercial data 
showing how it calculates premiums. Thats because the information could be used 
by competitors to gain a commercial advantage. But insurers usually provide 
sensitive information to this service on the basis that we will treat the information as 
confidential. 
Ive looked carefully at the information AXA has provided. Im satisfied the premium 
AXA quoted T was calculated correctly. Ive seen nothing to indicate that T was 
treated less favourably than another company in a similar position. Thats not to say 
that I dont agree with Mr M that Ts original quotes show that the premiums have 
increased substantially in recent years: they clearly have. But AXA has explained 
why this is the case and I dont think, having reviewed the information thats been 
provided, that AXA calculated Ts premium unfairly.  Premium setting is essentially a 
matter  of commercial judgement and not something with which we would usually 
think its fair to interfere.
AXA offered T a discretionary loyalty discount and a further decrease as a gesture of 
goodwill. And when it discovered that it had undercharged T it decided not to seek to 
recover the additional amount. Theres clearly some flexibility in the pricing but I dont 
think that leads to the conclusion that the original premium was unfair. Ive seen 
nothing to support Mr Ms assertion that the fact that AXA offered discounts means 
that it recognises that its premium calculation was incorrect. AXA says that it offered 
the discounts in recognition of the long-term relationship between it and T and its 
desire to resolve the complaint and retain T as a member.
I can quite understand why the renewal quote wasnt acceptable to T. As Mr M is 
aware, it was open to T to decline the renewal quote and look for a policy with 
another provider. Mr M has referred to the difficulty of doing that, but it remains the 
case that T isnt obliged to take up the renewal quote. In addition, AXA has offered to 
look at an individual membership for Mr M and his family. 
For the reasons Ive explained there are no grounds on which I could fairly ask AXA 
to reduce Ts premium. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman