DRN-2939065
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) was irresponsible when it 
gave her two credit cards; one in July 2017 and one in July 2018.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint recently, and gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold this complaint in part  as I thought Capital One 
responsibly lent to Mrs F in respect of the first credit card it gave her, but not the second 
one. I wont repeat everything I previously said here, but Ive included an extract of my 
provisional decision below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont currently think Capital One irresponsibly gave Mrs F 
the first card. But I think it was irresponsible to give her the second card. Ill explain 
why. 
When someone complains about irresponsible lending, I need to consider whether 
the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider 
whether the lending decision was fair based on the results of those checks. But if 
reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider what 
the lender wouldve seen if those checks had taken place, and if that information 
wouldve changed the lending decision that was made.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect 
lenders to
consider things such as the amount of the credit limit being applied for; the type of 
credit; and the applicants personal circumstances at the time of application.
When Mrs F applied for the first credit card in 2017, she told Capital One that she 
was employed with a salary of £25,000 and that she was a private tenant. 
Capital One took account of the information Mrs F gave and also checked her 
credit file. This showed she had one other active credit card and that she was 
within her credit limit for that. It also showed that her bank account didnt have an 
overdraft limit. Mrs Fs credit file also showed shed previously defaulted on four 
accounts, but it looks as though these had all happened over two years before the 
application and those accounts had since been closed. 
From all the information provided, I havent concluded that it was irresponsible for 
Capital One to give her the first credit card she applied for. Ive noted Mrs Fs 
comment that she wasnt in the best financial position, but I also have to consider 
what Capital One knew about her, or ought reasonably to have known at the time 
of application. I think that by checking Mrs Fs income and checking her credit file, 
the checks it did went far enough to understand her circumstances and I dont think 
it needed to do more. And I think Capital One responded appropriately to the 
checks it did by initially granting a modest credit limit of £200. 
From everything Ive seen I dont think there was enough to make Capitals One 
think that a credit card with a £200 credit limit was unaffordable for Mrs F to repay, 
so I dont think Capital One acted irresponsibly when it gave her this card.
Ive now gone on to consider the second credit card that Mrs F took, in July 2018. 
Capital One has provided extracts of its systems showing the data Mrs F entered 
when making her application. From this I can see that Mrs F declared an annual 
income of £35,000 and she again said that she was a private tenant. Capital One 
also checked Mrs Fs credit file, which I note showed that shed had a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) registered against her.
Mrs F has explained that shed previously had two CCJs registered  one earlier, 
and one in March 2018, around four months before she applied for the second 
card. 
Whilst I dont dispute what Mrs F has said here, I cant see that Capital One was 
aware of the CCJ in March 2018  having reviewed the information it received from 
the credit search it performed. I say this because having reviewed Capital Ones 
credit file data alongside the copy of the credit file that Mrs F has provided, I cant 
see that the debt related to the CCJ issued in 2018 showed as such on the credit 
file information. It does look as though it had defaulted around the end of 2017, but 
it doesnt automatically follow that Capital One shouldve also known a CCJ had 
been granted in relation to this debt. Despite this, I do think this default shouldve 
made Capital One consider whether it needed to do any additional checks before 
lending to Mrs F for a second time. As the default had only happened a few months 
before, and as this was the second card application Mrs F had made is a fairly 
short space of time, I think Capital One shouldve gone further to check Mrs Fs 
circumstances.
As Ive said, I can see that Capital One was aware of one of the CCJs, but it looks 
like this one was registered earlier than March 2018. And Capital One has 
explained that it performed further underwriting checks as a result of this 
information, and it was still happy to lend to Mrs F. Our investigator asked Capital 
One about these further checks, to gain an understanding of what Capital One saw 
as a result of those further checks. Capital One didnt agree to sharing the checks, 
or results with this service, as it said that was sensitive information. 
I cant simply accept Capital Ones word for what it did, without any further 
explanation or evidence of that, so Ive looked at the information that I consider 
was available to Capital One alongside the application data, such as on Mrs Fs 
existing credit card. 
I can see that between the end of 2017, and when Mrs F applied for the second 
card in July 2018, she missed several payments, made late payments, and 
exceeded her credit limit on the first card. And whilst she made some payments 
that were higher than the minimum required, she also made some minimum 
payments. Id consider this pattern of activity to cause some concern to Capital 
One, especially as it says that it performed enhanced underwriting checks as a 
result of what it already knew about Mrs F. I also havent been made aware that 
Capital One verified Mrs Fs declared income. Had Capital One performed these 
further checks, I think its unlikely it wouldve lent to Mrs F.  
Looking at the activity on the second card, I think it shouldve been clear to Capital 
One if not at the time of application, but shortly after the card was opened, that Mrs 
F was struggling. I can see the card almost reached its limit within a few months of 
being opened. And Mrs F started to only make the minimum repayments.  This continued until Mrs F was charged an over limit fee in November 2018, and 
following this, stopped making payments altogether. 
Ive also noted that Mrs F has explained that she wasnt earning what Capital One 
says she was at the time of each application. So she says wasnt earning £25,000 
in 2017 and £35,000 in 2018. 
Ive thought carefully about this, and whilst this may be the case, Im satisfied that 
Mrs F gave the information that Capital One used at the point of both applications. I 
say this because Capital One has provided extracts of its systems. I note the 
information about Mrs Fs salary is provided alongside personal details such as her 
address and employment, so I think its more likely than not that this is the 
information Mrs F input at the time of applying for the cards. Whilst I do appreciate 
that Mrs F now says that information is inaccurate, its not uncommon for 
customers to estimate their income when making credit applications, and it seems 
likely that could be what happened here. 
Ive thought carefully about this, and whilst I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Capital One to accept what Mrs F said at the time of the first application, I think it 
shouldve done further checks to verify this when she applied for the second card. I 
say this because, in addition to the checks Ive already mentioned that Capital One 
shouldve done when she applied for the second card, I also think it shouldve 
verified whether the application data was accurate. Bearing in mind this was Mrs 
Fs second card application within a year, and she appeared to be having trouble 
repaying the fairly small balance on her first card, I think Capital One shouldve 
questioned whether Mrs Fs income had really increased by £10,00, and it 
shouldve verified that her expenditure was what she said it was.
Mrs F stopped making payments to Capital One after she says her relationship with 
it broke down in late 2019. But Mrs F has since offered to make monthly 
repayments, provided Capital One agreed to refund the interest and charges shed 
paid on her cards. Capital One didnt accept this offer, but it did reiterate that itd be 
happy to agree a suitable repayment plan with Mrs F if she gets in touch with it. 
Im not persuaded that Capital One lent unfairly to Mrs F when it gave her the first 
credit card, so theres no reason that Capital One should waive any of the charges 
associated with that one. So I think its fair for Capital One to require Mrs F to repay 
the full balance, including the interest and charges that are outstanding on that 
card. But having said this, Id still expect Capital One to work with Mrs F to ensure 
that it reaches a repayment plan that allows her debts to be repaid sustainably.
But as I havent been given enough information about the checks Capital One did, 
Im not satisfied that it was fair to give Mrs F the second card. And I think it doing 
so caused her further financial difficulties, which led to her being charges additional 
fees and interest that could otherwise have been avoided. So Ive explained below 
how Capital One should put this right. 
Ive also gone on to think about what Mrs F has said in relation to the financial 
difficulties she had throughout the time she held her cards. Having reviewed the 
notes on the accounts, Im not aware that Mrs F told Capital One about the 
financial difficulties she had. Im also mindful that when Mrs F took the first card 
she was making much larger payments than she needed to, and she fully cleared 
the balance on several occasions. So I dont think that Capital One shouldve had 
reason to suspect Mrs F was in financial difficulties, at least until she took the 
second card.  By the time Mrs F took the second card I think Capital One shouldve 
realised Mrs F mayve been in financial difficulties, even if she hadnt explicitly told 
it that was the case. For this reason, as Ive said, I dont think Capital One 
shouldve agreed to giving Mrs F the second card. Whilst I appreciate it can be challenging for anyone in financial difficulties to talk 
about this with their lenders, I also have to consider what, if anything, a lender can 
do if it isnt made aware of a problem. And although there were some missed 
payments throughout the life of the first card, the fact that Mrs F usually brought the 
account back up-to-date promptly, and didnt contact Capital One to let it know she 
was struggling, means I cant hold Capital One responsible for what it didnt do in 
response to that situation. But as I dont think Capital One shouldve given Mrs F 
the second card, I think it also worsened Mrs Fs financial difficulties by allowing 
her to build up extra debt that ultimately she wasnt able to repay. And I think 
Capital One should recognise the additional and unnecessary anxiety this wouldve 
caused Mrs F.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont currently think that Capital One was 
irresponsible by granting Mrs F the first credit card that she applied for in 2017. But 
I dont think it shouldve granted the second card, given in July 2018. So Im 
currently intending to uphold the complaint in part, and to tell Capital One to put 
things right.
 
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. Capital One let us know it 
didnt have anything further to add, and Mrs F told us that she agreed that my provisional 
findings were a fair way to resolve the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been provided with any further evidence or comments, and as neither party has 
disagreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
It follows that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Capital One to put things right.
Putting things right
I require Capital One to put things right as follows:
Refund all interest and charges that were applied to the card taken in July 2018; 
Capital One can reduce the outstanding balance of the card with this refund. If 
theres a surplus following this, Capital One should pay the surplus to Mrs F with 8% 
simple interest, from the date it was paid until the date she receives the payment;
Remove any adverse information related to the second card from Mrs Fs credit file;
Pay Mrs F £100 compensation for the trouble and upset that the additional charges 
and interest caused her.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and I require Capital One (Europe) plc to put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman