DRN-2605931
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the policy information he received from One Insurance Limited 
and that it wouldnt reduce his premium under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought a car insurance policy with One Insurance on 6 April 2020. He bought it online 
through a comparison website. 
At the end of April 2020 Mr S contacted One Insurance through its live chat service. He was 
unhappy with conflicting information he was given about additional products under his policy 
and he wanted One Insurance to reduce his premium by 25%, He said the risk to One 
Insurance had reduced due to the lockdown restrictions put in place. He raised a complaint. 
One Insurance upheld part of Mr Ss complaint as it accepted it hadnt provided correct 
information to him about the level of breakdown cover during a live chat. For its failings it 
paid Mr S £25 compensation.
It said it refunded the premium Mr S paid for the following additional products: Gold 
Breakdown Cover and Guaranteed Hire car with legal cover on 07 April 2020 as Mr S asked 
they be removed from his policy. In any event, it provided a screenshot of the attachments 
Mr S was able to access before purchasing the policy. 
One Insurance said the premium Mr S paid for his policy was agreed at the time and that 
lockdown restrictions were already in place by then. So it said it wouldnt apply a reduction in 
the premium Mr S paid. But it said that if Mr S wanted to cancel his policy, One Insurance 
would waive its £55.99 cancellation fee. 
Mr S remained unhappy and he asked us to look at his complaint. He said One Insurance  
had failed to provide details of the legal expenses and breakdown products. He believed 
One Insurance should have reduced his premium by 25% as the risk for One Insurance was 
reduced due to not only the first  but subsequent lockdowns. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He thought One 
Insurance had acted reasonably. 
Mr S didnt agree. Ive addressed his points in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding of part of Mr Ss complaint is that  although he was provided with policy 
wording by One Insurance  he isnt satisfied that they properly explained the level of cover 
under his policy. 
One Insurance in its reply to Mr Ss complaint provided a screenshot of the attachments he 
was able to view before he bought the policy. These include policy wording for breakdown 
cover and legal cover. 
According to a screenshot of the online journey  and copy letters provided by One 
Insurance , Mr S bought upgraded cover: Gold Breakdown Cover and Guaranteed Hire Car 
with basic legal cover in addition to his car insurance policy which provided basic breakdown 
cover and basic legal cover as standard. The total premium Mr S paid was £490.26. This 
included the costs of the additional upgraded products at £39 and £28.95 respectively.
Mr S told us that One Insurance incorrectly charged him an additional £67.95 when the 
premium he paid of £422.31 was an all-inclusive price. But I can see from the covering letter 
One Insurance sent to Mr S on 6 April 2020 that this clearly set out that the premium of 
£422.31 was for his insurance and an additional total of £67.95 was for the additional 
products. It listed the total premium Mr S paid as £490.26. I therefore dont think Mr S paid 
an all in price of £422.31 which included the additional upgraded products. 
So when Mr S requested a refund for the amount he paid for the additional upgraded 
products on 7 April 2020, this meant he no longer had cover for Guaranteed Hire Car with 
basic legal cover or Gold breakdown cover. But Mr S still had basic breakdown cover and 
basic legal cover as standard under his policy. 
Mr S contacted One Insurance three weeks later and asked One Insurance to advise him of 
the level of cover he had for breakdown and legal expenses. He said, this was meant to be 
sent out to me but wasnt.
When Mr S cancelled the additional upgraded products on 7 April 2020, One Insurance told 
us that Mr S was advised verbally of the change and the portal outlined the cover Mr S had. 
From the screenshots provided, Mr S had access to the policy wording for the levels of cover 
he had - following the removal of the upgraded additional products. Having read the basic 
cover policy wording for the breakdown cover and legal cover, I think they explained the 
nature and level of cover provided. 
I agree with Mr S that he was given confusing and conflicting information in the live chat 
exchanges on 27 April 2020. One agent said he had Gold breakdown cover  the other said 
he had basic breakdown cover. Given the purpose of Mr Ss contact with One Insurance  
was to establish what levels of cover he had, I can understand his frustration and lack of 
confidence in One Insurance following this chat. Clearly the agents were providing 
information as to the basic and upgraded levels of cover. But I think the policy wording 
available to Mr S online for the levels of cover he had were clear. 
One Insurance accepts its failings here and paid Mr S £25 compensation. I think this is a 
reasonable sum in respect of the agents errors. 
Mr S told One Insurance his premium should be reduced by 25% because the risk to One 
Insurance reduced as result of lockdown  and subsequent lockdowns during the year. Our 
investigator explained that One Insurance wasnt required to reduce Mr Ss premium and 
that it had offered for Mr S to cancel the policy without a cancellation fee which he thought 
was reasonable. 
Mr S said it would have been more reasonable for One Insurance to have reduced the 
premium.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has provided guidance for insurers in these 
circumstances. It says firms should consider how best they should address changes in circumstances where they identify the product is not delivering the value intended for their 
customers
One Insurance said that the risk remained for theft, fire or vandalism. One Insurance said it 
therefore delivered a product which provided the intended value for Mr S in line with FCA 
guidance. 
One Insurance told Mr S it had applied a reduction in consideration of the implications of 
lockdown before he bought his policy. Mr S has asked if we have seen evidence of this. We 
have. This is commercially sensitive business information and so we cannot share it with Mr 
S. But Im satisfied that the information One Insurance told Mr S is correct. 
Mr S bought his policy through a comparison website and so made an informed choice about 
what policy to buy and what was best value for money at a time when lockdown restrictions 
were already in place. I appreciate that neither Mr S  nor anyone  knew how long that 
would be for and what other changes would occur. Mr S is of the view that the change in risk 
means he should have received a refund of at least 25%. But I think One Insurance provided 
a policy in line with FCA guidelines and it wasnt required to provide a refund to Mr S unless 
hed asked to change the level of cover  and if that change resulted in a reduction in 
premium. 
So I dont think One Insurance acted unreasonably here. And I think One Insurance s offer 
for Mr S to be able to cancel his policy and choose suitable alternative cover without paying 
a cancellation fee was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman