DRN-2921266
The complaint
Mr K complains about U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) for its 
decision to reject his insurance claim. He wants Direct Line to pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr K held buildings and contents insurance for his home with Direct Line.
In October 2020, after a period of heavy rain, Mr K noticed a wet patch developing on his 
living room ceiling.
He contacted Direct Line who sent an assessor to Mr Ks home around a week later. 
The assessor was not able to access the roof as he did not have the correct ladders but 
carried out an assessment from ground level and concluded that he could not see evidence 
of storm damage. 
Mr K was able to access the roof a few days later and noted a cracked tile. He took photos 
and provided these to Direct Line. 
Direct Lines assessor reviewed the photos of the cracked tile and remained of the view that 
this was not evidence of storm damage. The assessor considered that the poor weather had 
highlighted the issue of the broken tile, but that it had not been caused by the weather.
Direct Line also indicated that it was not satisfied that there had been storm conditions at the 
time.
Mr K complained about the decision. Direct Line sent its final response letter in early 
November 2020. This indicated that if Mr K had any further evidence it would consider this. 
Mr K then obtained a report from his roofer. This concluded that the broken tile was the 
result of severe weather. 
Direct Line considered this report but maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Mr K was unhappy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This 
was that the circumstances of the claim did not meet our approach of when a claim for storm 
damage would usually succeed. This was because the winds recorded before the leak 
appeared were not severe enough to constitute a storm, and the damage was not of the type 
usually associated with storm damage, or otherwise the weather was not the main cause of 
the damage. Our investigator therefore thought that Direct Line had carried out a reasonable 
assessment of the claim and additional evidence, and they did not ask Direct Line to do 
anything further. 
Mr K has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has complained that the assessor from Direct Line did not go onto the roof and that the 
assessor did not see the cracked tile in person. We would usually expect an assessor to 
ensure that they could adequately view the area of potential damage before forming a view, 
but I do not criticise that the assessor was unable to view the roof on his first visit as he did 
not have appropriate equipment. 
Mr K was shortly afterwards able to access the roof and took, and provided to Direct Line, 
photographs of the roof condition and the damaged tile. In light of this being provided to 
Direct Line I think that the assessor was able to carry out an adequate assessment of the 
area based on the photographs although, had Mr K not provided the photographs, I would 
have expected Direct Line to return and carry out an in person inspection. 
Overall, I appreciate Mr Ks comments about the way that the assessment was carried out 
but think that an appropriate assessment was ultimately possible. I also think that the main 
crux of Mr Ks complaint is the decision that Direct Line then reached, so I have focussed on 
that. 
As our investigator explained, when considering whether claims for storm damage have 
been handled fairly, we look at three main questions:
1) Were storm conditions present on or around the date when the damage is said to 
have taken place?
2) If so, is the damage consistent with damage caused by a storm?
3) If so, were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In this instance, evidence of the weather recorded near to Mr Ks home has been provided 
for the period leading up to 2 October 2020, when Mr K noticed the water ingress. This 
shows peak winds of 40 mph within the preceding 4 weeks, and around 25mm of rain on the 
day when the damage manifested. 
This did not meet the generally accepted criteria for a storm, where winds would need to 
exceed 54mph. Direct Line was not, therefore, satisfied that the wind conditions for a storm 
peril occurred. 
I do not think this was an unreasonable conclusion, but as there is less consensus about 
what constitutes a rainstorm, and there was evidence of heavy rain in the area of Mr Ks 
home around the time of the claim, I have also considered the second and third questions in 
the context of whether the damage might have been caused by heavy rain.
Looking then at the damage, this appears to have been a single tile located in the middle of 
the roof, which was cracked in half, and which then let the rain water into the roof space. 
Mr Ks roofer provided an opinion of the damage and said that he considered that the tile 
was damaged in severe weather conditions. I appreciate this view and have borne it in mind, 
but this opinion is of limited value without an explanation of how the weather would have 
caused the one cracked tile, and whether it would be expected to see other damage if 
caused by weather. 
 Broken tiles may be consistent with very high winds and impact from debris but would be 
unlikely to be caused by rain, unless the rain was also accompanied by very high winds. 
The evidence from Direct Lines assessor was that the damage was not consistent with a 
storm, as a storm would damage more than just one, centrally located, tile. In the assessors 
view the broken tile was not caused by a storm, and instead the heavy rain highlighted the 
existing issue of the broken tile.  
Direct Line therefore did not consider that the damage was caused by a storm and 
concluded that there was no evidence of an insured event having happened. In light of the 
evidence available, I do not think that was an unreasonable or unfair decision. 
Direct Line did give consideration to Mr Ks roofers report, and this did not alter its view. I 
appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr K, but I think that Direct Line has considered 
the evidence fully and has acted fairly in its consideration of the claim, including considering 
the roofers report. 
For these reasons I agree with the investigators view and I do not uphold the complaint. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr K, but I hope it explains how I have 
reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and do not ask U K Insurance 
Limited, trading as Direct Line, to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman