DRN-3873802
The complaint
C, a firm of solicitors, complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect Mr and 
Mrs Ws money.
C brings this complaint in its capacity as the executor and administrator, respectively, of 
Mr and Mrs Ws estates.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr and Mrs W had various sole savings accounts and one joint current account with 
Santander.
 
In 2009/10, with the help of C, Mr and Mrs W each drew up a Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPA) giving the other permission to act as their primary attorney. Mr W had been acting 
as Mrs Ws attorney since 2015 but disclaimed his appointment in August 2017. The 
replacement attorneys were Mrs Ws sister (Mrs J) and C. Mrs J registered the LPA, and 
her authority to act on Mrs Ws behalf, with Santander in December 2017. Thereafter, 
she had access to Mrs Ws accounts, including the joint account.
Mrs W died in January 2018 and Mr W died about six weeks later. Both Mrs J and C 
were named in Mr and Mrs Ws wills as being joint executors of their estates if, in effect, 
Mr and Mrs W didnt survive each other or either was unwilling to act as executor.
Mrs J reported both deaths promptly to the local register office. She told C about Mrs Ws 
death within three days, but doesnt seem to have told it about Mr Ws death until May 
2018. Neither death appears to have been reported to Santander until C contacted the 
bank in July 2018.
C complains that Santander allowed Mrs J to fraudulently take money from Mr and 
Mrs Ws accounts and also coerced Mr W into signing four cheques, totalling £50,000, 
three of which were made to Mrs J and one (apparently) to her husband. C says almost 
£83,500 in total was lost/stolen between 20 November 2017 and 7 April 2018. C says 
Santander should be held liable for these losses as well as the solicitors costs the 
estates have incurred in bringing this complaint.
After we became involved, Santander offered to refund the £20,000 cheque that was 
made payable to Mrs Js husband because it thought the cheque had been altered. But it 
refused to refund the other cheques or any of the other disputed transactions, saying the 
latter were carried out by the registered attorney (Mrs J) before the bank was notified 
about Mr and Mrs Ws deaths.
Our investigator concluded that Mrs Js authority under the LPA lapsed as soon as 
Mrs W died and the power to oversee her estates finances passed to the executor of her 
estate, which seemed to be C. So he recommended that Santander should refund all of 
the disputed transactions and also cover some of Cs fees. Santander disagreed and, 
with reference to the Mental Capacity Act 2005, said it fairly acted on Mrs Js instructions 
because it was unaware of Mr and Mrs Ws deaths. As matters remain in dispute, the 
complaint has been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I didnt intend to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint. Ive reproduced my provisional findings here.
Ive gathered additional further evidence since the investigator issued their view and have 
some concerns about whether its appropriate to look into this complaint, given the additional 
evidence Ive gathered suggests Mrs J is also a potential executor of both estates, but isnt 
party to this complaint. I think its arguable this complaint should be dismissed because all 
eligible complainants arent joined in and/or havent consented to the bringing of this 
complaint. But, given the length of time this complaint has been going on and the 
conclusions Im minded to reach about its merits, Ive decided to issue this provisional 
decision notwithstanding those concerns.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not currently minded 
to conclude that Santander should be held liable for any of the remaining disputed 
transactions or any of the solicitors fees that were incurred in bringing this complaint. I say 
this having taken the following, in particular, into account.
The three cheques made payable to Mrs J and signed by Mr W were all dated prior to his 
death. C says it has no knowledge that Mr W, up until his death, had any mental capacity 
issues and/or was incapable of making his own financial decisions. And Ive seen nothing to 
support Cs assertion that Mr W was coerced into signing these cheques. The bank has, I 
believe, already refunded £20,000 in lieu of the cheque that was made payable to Mrs Js 
husband because the cheque had been altered. And it does look like the date on the cheque 
was changed. No such changes are apparent on the other three cheques and I dont agree 
with Cs assertion that the bank should refund those amounts simply because it refunded the 
£20,000 cheque. 
Some of the transactions thatve been disputed took place before Mrs W died. Its not clear 
the investigator realised this, given his view focused on his belief that Mrs Js authority to 
make payments ended when Mrs W died, yet hes instructed that all of the disputed 
payments be refunded. With this in mind, its not sufficiently clear to me that Mrs J was 
acting outside of her authority and/or not in Mrs Ws interests while she was alive.
I think its debatable whether the authority conferred on Mrs J by the LPA ended on Mrs Ws 
death, given that Santander didnt know about her death until some months later. But, in any 
event, whats now become clear (given the further investigation Ive undertaken) is that Mrs J 
was the only family member who was named as one of the two executors in both Mr and 
Mrs Ws wills  the other being C. She was also the only family member who was appointed 
(along with C) as replacement attorney for Mrs W  Mr Ws only replacement attorney was 
C, rather than a member of his own family. Theres also a suggestion in the correspondence 
C has shared (which Ill comment more on below) that Mrs J was the only family member 
who took a regular interest and provided assistance to Mr and Mrs W in the later months 
(and, possibly years) of their lives. Given the relationship and support described in Mrs J's 
letters, I can't rule out the possibility that after Mrs Ws death  when her assets passed to 
Mr W  Mr W was happy for Mrs J to continue having access to the account under a more 
informal arrangement. And that may well have been the case not least because, as Ill 
explain further below, Mr W didnt feel able to act as the executor of Mrs Ws estate.C has provided copies of letters Mrs J sent it, seemingly in response to letters it had sent her 
(copies of which were not provided). In these letters, amongst other things, Mrs J refers to 
her relationship with Mr and Mrs W, she disputes the unfavourable comments that C 
reported as having been made about her and her actions by some of Mr Ws relatives, and 
says:
She only agreed to Cs request for her to transfer her executors rights to C because it 
said this would expedite the process of fulfilling Mr and Mrs Ws will, not least because 
delays would likely be caused due to her living abroad. She assumed as Mr Ws Grant of 
Probate stated that power was reserved to her, that she would be kept in the loop with 
the administration of the estates, but that had not happened.
She was concerned about Cs assertion that withdrawals and/or payments shed made 
were suspicious. Shed tried to evidence all of the spending shed made from the bank 
accounts, but this had proven difficult because C hadnt asked for such evidence until 
approximately 18 months after Mr Ws death and, at the time, she hadnt realised that 
this should all be retained. 
C told her that a little under £43,500 was up for discussion but, while she disputed the 
entirety of that sum, she offered to pay almost £10,000 back to the estates under 
reserve. This was in June 2020 and the offer was made, Mrs J suggests, largely 
because she was in poor health and wished to settle matters quickly and amicably. 
Its not clear to me how or why the £43,500 disputed sum that Mrs J refers to in her 
correspondence increased to the £83,500 that C is now trying to reclaim from the bank. Nor 
has C shown that this money has actually been lost, rather than having been used for 
Mr and Mrs Ws benefit and/or having been willingly gifted to Mrs J or other parties. C hasnt 
provided the evidence Mrs J sent them to justify the spending but, even if it had, that might 
not be conclusive because I can well understand the possibility that the evidence is 
incomplete because Mrs J didnt realise she needed to keep such evidence.
The last disputed transaction took place on 7 April 2018, over a month before Mrs J reported 
Mr Ws death to C, at which point there was still more than £44,000 in what had been the 
joint account. If Mrs J was intent on defrauding Mr and Mrs W and/or their estates, its not 
clear to me why she didnt take more money sooner and/or why she stopped making 
transactions in April. 
What does seem clear here is that the two executors of Mr and Mrs Ws estates are in 
disagreement about how some of Mr and Mrs Ws and/or their estates money has been 
spent. As Mrs J is not party to this complaint, Ive not been able to question her about her 
role in these matters. But I imagine, given the letter C has shared with me, that she would 
strongly refute any suggestion that shes acted fraudulently (as C seems to be suggesting). 
I also note that:
Mrs Ws LPA gave Mrs J and C authority to act jointly and severally. I cant see that there 
was any obligation for Mrs J (or Santander) to tell C that she had registered the LPA with 
the bank. Moreover, C was aware Mr W had disclaimed his appointment because it was 
directly involved with that process. C was one of Mrs Ws replacement attorneys yet 
seemingly took no steps to enquire or understand who was taking over the oversight of 
Mrs Ws financial affairs. 
Mrs J notified C about Mrs Ws death within three days of the event. It also seems she let 
C know that Mr W didnt feel well enough to act as Mrs Ws attorney  which meant that responsibility would pass to Mrs J and C. It doesnt seem to me that she was trying to 
hide or mislead C about the situation. 
Ive seen nothing which suggests C has reported Mrs J to any official body as being unfit 
to act either as Mrs Ws attorney while she was alive, or as executor of her and/or 
Mr Ws estates
It seems fair to say, with hindsight, that Mrs J didnt entirely go about things in quite the right 
way after Mr and Mrs W died. Ideally, she would have notified Santander about Mr and 
Mrs Ws deaths promptly and followed this by liaising with C to obtain the appropriate Letters 
of Administration and/or Grants of Probate. But I dont think that, in and of itself, indicates 
Mrs J was acting fraudulently, out with the wishes of Mr and Mrs W or otherwise beyond the 
remit of the authority conferred on her by the LPAs, Mr Ws informal agreement and/or the 
wills. 
Its fair to say that some of the higher value payments might well have been considered 
unusual given the way the accounts had been operated historically. And so its arguable the 
bank should have intervened. But Im not currently convinced that would have made a 
difference in this particular case. If the bank had spoken with Mrs J then shed likely have 
explained and reassured it about the reason for the payments. And Mr W (before his death) 
may well have done the same given what Ive already said about the absence of any 
evidence that suggests Mr W lacked mental capacity and/or was being coerced by Mrs J.
It seems to me that this complaint concerns a disagreement (or civil dispute) between the 
two potential executors of Mr and Mrs Ws wills. Thats not something that I can intervene 
with or make a ruling on, and it would be better resolved between C and Mrs J through the 
courts or other appropriate method.
In all the circumstances I dont currently think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Santander liable for the losses C has claimed, so I cant fairly tell it to refund the remaining 
disputed transactions. 
C, on behalf of Mr and Mrs Ws estates, didnt accept my provisional findings. They provided 
copies of some of the other correspondence theyd exchanged with Mrs J relating to these 
disputed transactions and said, in summary that:
I had applied the law incorrectly with regard to Mrs Js right as an executor of Mr and 
Mrs Ws estates and her right to be party to this complaint. It also wouldnt be fair for her 
to join this complaint because it is she who misappropriated money using the Power of 
Attorney  which she knew became void when Mrs W died  both before and after 
Mr and Mrs Ws deaths.
They are not having a disagreement with Mrs J, they are trying to reclaim money that 
rightfully belongs to Mr and Mrs Ws estates and which Mrs J has taken fraudulently. The 
matter has been referred to the police.
Santander should have had concerns about how the cheques were presented and 
queried this. Its clear from his signature that Mr W was frail and there are errors in how 
the cheques were made out. The joint account activity changed shortly before Mrs Ws 
death, after Mrs J registered to act as her attorney. Santander should have queried this 
too. 
Its not fair for me to make assumptions about whether Mr W gave Mrs J access to the 
account. The debit card given to Mrs J when she was acting as Mrs Ws attorney was used fraudulently and the money taken using this card should be refunded. Nor is it fair 
for me to draw conclusions about why Mrs J didnt withdraw more money. 
They dont agree with my assertion that intervention from the bank wouldnt have made a 
difference. Had Santander tried to make contact it might have discovered that Mr and 
Mrs W had died and been able to prevent the money being misappropriated by Mrs J.
Mrs J was entitled to only £5,000 from Mr Ws estate, she has spent more than that and 
has made no attempts to repay what she owes. She fraudulently took more than £40,000 
between becoming Mrs Ws attorney and Mrs Ws death. And another £40,000 after 
Mr W died  details of the amount owed were shared with Mrs J in November 2019.
Santander didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint or instruct Santander to 
refund any of the money that C claims to have been lost.
I dont intend on repeating everything I said in my provisional decision simply because C 
disagrees with my findings. But I would say the following.
This has not been an easy decision to make mainly because Mr and Mrs W are not available 
to question and, as Ive already said, theres the possibility they would not have objected to 
the transactions that C has disputed on behalf of their estates. Nor does it seem that C had 
any interaction with Mr and Mrs W over the period of time that the disputed transactions took 
place. And I havent been able to question the one person who was present at that time  
Mrs J  and who has now been accused of misappropriating money before and after Mr and 
Mrs Ws deaths. 
With the above in mind, C has disagreed with some of the assumptions Ive made. But 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as it is in this case), I have 
had to make some assumptions and reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the light of all the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
C has objected to my choice of words but, in very simple terms, I do believe there is a 
disagreement here between the estate and Mrs J that could be resolved through the courts. 
And that might well be a more satisfactory forum because the courts can compel witnesses 
to attend and provide evidence. 
On that note, it seems clear from the correspondence C has recently shared that the 
beneficiaries of the estates considered taking legal action against Mrs J and its not clear 
why that course of action wasnt pursued. I also note from the correspondence that at one 
stage the parties were willing to settle the matter if Mrs J repaid approximately £40,000. And 
C seemed to accept at one point that some of the disputed transactions had likely paid for 
funeral-related costs (albeit the beneficiaries felt some of which were very expensive) or 
other costs for which the estates were liable (such as care fees and house insurance). 
I must be clear that my role is not to make a finding on the dispute between the estate and 
Mrs J. My role is to decide if Santander has done anything wrong. But, if I find it has, before 
making an award I must also consider whether there is sufficient evidence of any financial losses that have been claimed. Ive still not seen all of the correspondence and explanations 
that Mrs J gave C related to the spending from the account. But, as I said before, its clear 
Mrs J didnt keep the documentation that C had requested, because she didnt realise this 
was necessary at the time. In the circumstances, even if I were to conclude that Mrs J had, 
at any time, acted outside any legal authority I cant be satisfied that the estates have 
evidence the losses C has claimed. 
I understand  as C has pointed out  that Mrs J might not, legally-speaking, have been 
entitled to recoup any costs she incurred while acting as Mrs Ws attorney or while 
supporting Mr W after Mrs Ws death and before his own death. But that doesnt mean 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy to cover such costs  that was a decision for them to make and 
I cannot now know what their intentions were. Nor, as Ive said before, can I safely conclude 
that Mr W was coerced into writing the cheques that remain in dispute.
Ive also already explained why I dont think intervention would likely have made a 
difference. I appreciate C disagrees. C believes Mrs C acted fraudulently by taking money to 
which she was not entitled for her own benefit. If I accept that, then I think its reasonable to 
assume Mrs J may well have lied to the bank if it had intervened including after Mr Ws 
death. That would likely have made it difficult for Santander to uncover if she was taking 
money for her own benefit, rather than Mr and Mrs Ws or to cover what would otherwise be 
the estates costs.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C (on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs Ws estates) to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman