DRN-4009415
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his car insurer Aviva Insurance Limited as following it repairing 
his car, it was making a noise and the steering was heavier than before. 
What happened
Mr K noted his car had been tampered with overnight. He spoke to neighbours and the 
police. He called Aviva to make a claim. Mr K wasnt really sure what had happened to his 
car, but it was felt the catalytic converter (CAT) had been stolen. Avivas garage identified 
that was missing and replaced it.
When Mr K got his car back he felt the steering was heavy and that the car was making a 
noise. He went back to Avivas garage. They said there were no faults linked to the theft of 
the CAT. Mr K had a diagnostic test completed which found an error with the cars hybrid 
battery, Mr Ks garage also felt the steering rod needed replacing, and it was replaced. 
Mr K complained to Aviva  he felt the problems hed had with the car since it had replaced 
the CAT must all have been caused by the thieves and that Aviva should have run a full 
diagnostic on the car when it took it for repair. Aviva said there hadnt been a need for it to 
do a full diagnostic  not given the theft of the CAT, which thieves take usually without doing 
other damage to the car. Aviva said the battery error was likely to do with the age of the car 
and the heavy steering was likely related to that (as it is electrically assisted), also that the 
thieves wouldnt have damaged the steering rod. Aviva confirmed that the garage, in 
replacing the CAT, wouldnt have completed work on the battery or the steering system.
Aviva though acknowledged that there had been some poor service  the garage at one 
stage had suggested Mr K needed to add power steering fluid even though Mr Ks car has 
an electrically assisted system. And it had delayed answering his complaint. So it offered 
£150 compensation. Mr K remained unhappy, and he complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator thought it was unlikely that the problems Mr K had found with his car were 
related to the theft or Avivas repair. She felt the offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K said he disagreed. He said he didnt think it was fair that our Investigator had taken 
Avivas side, even though it hadnt provided any evidence. Mr K said Aviva should have 
established these issues with the car as it had not been known that the stolen CAT was the 
only result of the theft. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it was worrying for Mr K, having got his car back, to find issues with it that 
either had not been there before, or which he had not noticed. And given Aviva had so 
recently worked on the car I would have expected it to assist with reviewing the issues and 
checking that the car, as a result of the known incident, had been fully repaired. And Im 
satisfied that Aviva did do that here. 
Mr K says that Aviva did not provide any evidence. But it did. Aviva checked with the garage 
what had been done and considered its expert assessment of what had been found. And 
whilst Aviva did not provide the diagnostic which Mr K had done, it considered it and gave an 
opinion on it. In the circumstances I dont think there is anything more I can reasonably 
expect it to have done.
I say that because this was not the type of theft situation where a car is missing for days, 
and is driven in an unknown way by unknown parties, for example. In that situation an 
insurer might reasonably do a complete check on the car, all of its systems and main 
mechanical functions because what the car has suffered during the theft is not known, and 
cant be reasonably predicted. That is quite different to Mr Ks situation where his car was 
not actually taken or driven  according to the neighbour who saw a number of people 
hanging around the car for about half an hour. And where, in the aftermath of that, the CAT 
was clearly missing and had been taken from the car. I understand that CAT thefts are quite 
common and usually the CAT is the only target of the thieves. And removing a  CAT can be 
done relatively simply  it is just a part that detaches from the body of the car, there is no 
need for a thief to access the engine or adjust the steering, or otherwise tamper with the car 
to gain the object of their thievery. So here, where Mr K reported that his car was likely 
tampered with, and the CAT was found to be missing, I think it was reasonable that Avivas 
garage did not run a full diagnostic on the car to check that all its other systems and 
functions were working. 
Ive also considered what the garage and Aviva have said about the post repair problems 
reported by Mr K. The steering rod is a moving mechanical part of the car. It is something 
which suffers from wear and tear due to use of the vehicle. And it seems likely that, in this 
case, the steering generally might well have been affected by the battery issue. The power 
steering system of Mr Ks car is assisted by electricity drawn from the battery. But the 
diagnostic shows that the battery isnt working properly because it is deteriorating. So it 
makes sense to me that the power steering system could well have been or is suffering 
because of the battery issue. 
I appreciate that Mr K was not aware of an issue with the battery before Aviva replaced the 
CAT. But with the diagnostic saying the battery is deteriorating, that is something that would 
have been happening over an extended period of time. And it is the case when looking at 
any issue of deterioration that often the fact something is deteriorating is not noticed until the 
item either reaches a certain level of degradation where a loss in function becomes 
apparent, or something else happens which highlights the item is not working as it should. 
But deterioration does not occur during a half hour theft, or even over a period of two-three 
weeks of a car being away at a garage, it is a long-term process.
On this occasion I think Aviva completed a satisfactory repair given the circumstances of the 
loss. Im also satisfied that Avivas response  that the steering and battery issues Mr K has 
had with the car are not likely linked to the theft or its repairs  is fair and reasonable. 
Aviva has accepted that the garage did give incorrect advice about power steering fluid. Its 
unfortunate that the mechanic did not make sure of the nature of the car (it having an electric 
rather than fluid based steering system) before offering this incorrect advice. It 
understandably made Mr K even more concerned about the work that had been done. I also 
note Aviva acknowledges a delay in handled Mr Ks complaint. In the circumstances, 
especially given the additional worry Mr K was caused by the poor advice, I think £150 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. Whilst Aviva offered this sum, it seems it did not 
pay it. Ill require it to pay it now, but if it has been paid before, it wont have to pay it again.  
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr K £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman