DRN-3173669
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the support provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when he asked for payment deferrals under his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement in September 2019. The total amount payable 
under this agreement was £47,576 to be repaid in monthly instalments of £592 for 48 
months.
Mr H says he initially tried to get a car where the monthly repayments were over £600 a 
month. However, he was told by MBFS that this was unaffordable for him which is why he 
agreed to a car where the monthly repayments were £592 a month.
Due to Covid-19, Mr H says his work was impacted and he was no longer receiving the 
same income he was before. Mr H first wrote to MBFS on 20 March 2020 to ask for 
assistance in making his repayments under the agreement. 
On 1 April 2020, MBFS offered Mr H a three-month payment deferral until June 2020. MBFS 
told Mr H that payments of £637.54 would resume on 30 July 2020 and Mr H accepted this. 
MBFS explained the change in monthly payment amount was to allow Mr H to spread the 
payments that hes not made because of the payment deferral, across the remaining term of 
the agreement.
On 14 July 2020, Mr H contacted MBFS again to ask for assistance saying his situation 
hadnt improved and it was unlikely hed return to work until September/October. And on the 
12 August 2020, a payment deferral was offered for three more months - for the July to 
September 2020 payments. MBFS explained payments of £690.67 would resume in October 
2020 and Mr H accepted this on 19 August 2020. For the same reason as above, his 
monthly payment increased due to the months he had a payment deferral for being spread 
across the remaining term of the agreement. MBFS say in August 2020, Mr Hs direct debit 
was cancelled which prevented the August repayment being made.
On 16 October 2020, Mr H contacted MBFS once more asking for another payment deferral. 
MBFS agreed to give this but just for the month of October 2020. MBFS let Mr H know 
payments of £700.54 would resume in November 2020, once this payment deferral had 
ended, which Mr H accepted. And as before, the monthly payment increased due to the 
months he had a payment deferral for being spread across the remaining term of the 
agreement.
MBFS contacted Mr H in December 2020 and explained the payments for November and 
December 2020 had gone unpaid. The letter asked Mr H to get back in contact with MBFS if 
he was still experiencing financial difficulties. However, as Mr H didnt do this, a notice of 
sum in arrears was sent to him on 6 January 2021.
Mr H is unhappy that MBFS agreed to give him the payment deferrals  he says this 
increased his monthly payments from £592 (which was what was due under the agreement 
initially) to £700.54 by the time of the last payment deferral request. Mr H doesnt think its 
fair MBFS didnt allow him to take out an agreement initially where the monthly payments 
were over £600 a month as they said this was unaffordable for him. But they agreed to 
payment deferrals which resulted in his monthly payments increasing to £700.54. Mr H says 
this was irresponsible of MBFS to do. Mr H proposed that MBFS allow him to continue 
making the original monthly repayments of £592 a month but extend the term of the 
agreement until he repays the full amount.
MBFS say the increases in the monthly payments when the payment deferrals were made 
werent deemed significant according to their internal parameters. And that Mr H had 
requested to be considered for a payment deferral which had been provided to him under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines. MBFS also said they communicated 
what the monthly payment amount was going to be at the end of each deferral period to Mr 
H. In an effort to resolve matters for Mr H, MBFS initially offered to unwind the payment 
deferrals which he initially accepted. This would mean that MBFS recalculate the payments 
back to the amount prior to the respective payment deferral being accepted. However, these 
payments would be immediately due and at the rate prior to the deferral being put in place. 
Mr H didnt accept this and instead, made a payment of £592 in January 2021 in an attempt 
to stop his account from defaulting.
In April 2021, MBFS sent Mr H a default notice asking him to pay £2,318.70 by May 2021. 
MBFS say this was because payments hadnt been made between January to August 2020. 
However, as this payment wasnt made, the agreement was eventually terminated in 
September 2021. MBFS say they did this to prevent further debt from building up.
In relation to not letting Mr M take out an agreement initially with monthly payments of over 
£600, MBFS clarified to us that Mr H didnt meet their lending criteria to be able to offer him 
a finance agreement with monthly payments of over £600 in August 2019. When Mr H 
reapplied, this met their underwriting criteria and the amount of £592 a month was approved. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. In summary, she said she didnt think MBFS 
had acted unreasonably and they supported him when he needed assistance. Our 
Investigator also thought the information MBFS gave Mr H on the change to his monthly 
repayments was clear and accurate. As MBFS didnt receive any payments for eight months 
and they made it clear to Mr H what the repercussions were if payments werent made, our 
Investigator didnt think MBFS acted unfairly in terminating the agreement. In relation to 
MBFS proposal which was to unwind the payment deferrals and reducing the payments 
back to the original amount, meaning the payments would be due straight away, our 
Investigator felt this was a fair resolution in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H disagreed and said MBFS didnt do any further checks, including assessing his 
affordability, before offering each payment deferral. Since our Investigators view, MBFS 
have confirmed the agreement is now live and Mr H is able to use his car. MBFS say this is 
because Mr H agreed to a payment plan, his payments are up to date and there are no 
arrears outstanding. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance and 
regulations. On 24 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance 
on Covid-19 for car finance firms and was called Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This came into effect on 27 April 2020 and in 
relation to payment deferrals for hire purchase agreements like Mr Hs, it explained: 
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so. 
Mr H first contacted MBFS on 20 March 2020 asking for assistance as his circumstances 
had changed as a result of Covid-19. MBFS confirmed in an email of 1 April 2020 that theyd 
offer Mr H a three-month payment holiday from 30 April 2020 to 30 June 2020. So, while a 
payment deferral hadnt yet been set out as an option in the FCA guidance when Mr H first 
contacted MBFS, I think MBFS were doing what they could to help Mr H. And I dont think 
they acted unfairly in offering Mr H a payment deferral at this time.
I understand Mr H doesnt feel MBFS acted responsibly when agreeing to each payment 
deferral request. Instead, Mr H says MBFS should have assessed his affordability before 
agreeing to each payment deferral. As a result of the payment deferrals, this increased his 
monthly repayments.
While I understand Mr Hs concerns, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong in agreeing to 
the payment deferrals Mr H was asking for. Ultimately, Mr H was making the request for a 
payment deferral and MBFS agreed to each one. I dont think it would have necessarily been 
fair to not provide Mr H with the deferrals he requested for, considering the specific 
circumstances of Mr Hs case. The FCA guidance set out that there wasnt an expectation 
for firms to make enquires with each customer to determine the circumstances surrounding a 
request for a payment deferral. So, I think the intention of the guidance was for firms to 
provide quick, immediate short-term assistance to consumers in difficulty without the need 
for prolonged discussions or detailed additional checks before agreeing a payment deferral. 
With this in mind, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong in not finding out about Mr Hs 
affordability at each payment deferral request.
Ultimately, I think MBFS made clear each time Mr H asked for a payment deferral what this 
meant for him  they explained how long the payment deferral was going to be and what this 
meant for his monthly repayments from that point. Therefore, Im not persuaded that MBFS 
did anything wrong in giving Mr H the payment deferrals he asked for.
I note Mr H feels MBFS should have allowed him to continue making the original monthly 
repayments of £592 a month but extend the term of the agreement until he repays the full 
amount. We asked MBFS about why this wasnt an option and they explained it wouldnt 
have been possible to change the terms of Mr Hs finance agreement. And that if they did 
allow for this to happen, it would have put Mr H at a disadvantage as extending the term of 
the agreement would have led to increasing the amount of interest owed. Also, its likely Mr 
Hs monthly payments would have increased as the depreciation value of the car would need 
to be factored into the monthly cost as his agreement was only for a four-year term. Not 
extending the term of the agreement as Mr H wanted, meant that the deferred payments 
were spread across the remainder of the agreement term. And I think this was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr H also doesnt feel MBFS acted fairly when declining his application for finance where the 
monthly repayments were over £600 a month. However, there are several factors a lender 
will take into consideration when deciding to lend. And there are a number of checks a 
lender may decide to carry out at that initial lending stage. But, as Ive explained, MBFS 
werent required under the FCA guidance to carry out checks before agreeing to each payment deferral for Mr H  MBFS wouldnt have assessed Mr Hs affordability to repay as 
they may have done before deciding to lend to him. 
I note MBFS have confirmed Mr Hs payments are up to date and there are currently no 
outstanding arrears on the account. Therefore, I wont be recommending MBFS do anything 
and Mr H will need to continue making the monthly repayments towards the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman