DRN-3234710
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain Bank of Scotland plc treated them unfairly when they were 
discussing their options for repaying their interest only mortgage when it reached the end 
of its term. 
What happened
In 2004 Mr K and Mrs K took out an interest only mortgage of around £765,000 with Bank 
of Scotland plc (BoS) for a term of 14 years that expired in December 2018. Unfortunately, 
because of the financial crisis, Mr Ks business failed a few years after the mortgage term 
began. They couldnt keep up payments on the life assurance policy theyd planned to use 
as their repayment vehicle. And when they came to the end of the mortgage term, they had 
no means to repay it.
Mr K and Mrs K put forward some proposals to BoS and requested a term extension of six 
or seven years. BoS didnt agree their proposals and wouldnt extend the mortgage term. 
They rejected Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint theyd been treated unfairly. So, Mr K and Mrs K 
brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. He thought BoS had considered 
Mr K and Mrs Ks request to extend the term of the mortgage fairly and he didnt think a 
term extension would be in their best interests. Since Mr K and Mrs K didnt accept our 
investigators view, their complaint was passed to me to review. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems the financial crisis caused Mr K and Mrs K, their difficult 
family situation and the impact the uncertainty about the mortgage has had on their health. 
Given what Mr K and Mrs K have told us, I can understand the prospect of having to move 
and downsize is a worry.
Mr K and Mrs K have set out in some detail the reasons why they consider BoS have treated 
them unfairly. Im grateful for that as its helped my understanding of their complaint. I wont 
mention here all they and BoS have said or refer to all the information and documentation 
theyve provided. That reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. I dont mean to 
be discourteous and Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered everything theyve 
told us in coming to my decision.
The starting point for considering Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint is that, under the terms of 
their mortgage, they were obliged to repay what theyd borrowed at the end of the term. Mr 
K and Mrs K couldnt repay the mortgage and approached BoS about their options, 
including asking for a term extension.
Theres no requirement for BoS to offer Mr K and Mrs K any options for extending the 
term of the mortgage. But I need to think about whether BoS treated Mr K and Mrs K fairly 
in the individual circumstances of their complaint.
I can see BoS looked at the affordability of converting the mortgage to repayment terms.  
Mr K and Mrs K say theyd already told them they couldnt afford that  and BoS worked out 
theyd need to extend the mortgage by around 20 years for Mr K and Mrs K to be able to 
pay off what they owed on that basis.
I think BoS fairly concluded it wouldnt be responsible to lend over that period. It would 
have extended into Mr K and Mrs Ks nineties. Although they planned to work for a few 
more years, it was reasonable to think their earned income would reduce or cease before 
the term ended and their ability to make mortgage payments then would have been at risk.
Mr K and Mrs K couldnt find another lender willing to provide them with sufficient finance 
to pay off their BoS mortgage. They put forward some options to BoS that involved 
repaying part of the mortgage with the balance written off or continuing to be owed to BoS. 
The proposals didnt guarantee BoS would be repaid their loan in full. And BoS wouldnt 
have agreed to a charge for any outstanding balance taking second place to a new 
lenders charge. I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to reject the proposals as they 
increased BoSs risks of recovering their lending.
The mortgage rules allowed BoS to waive the usual affordability requirements and need for 
a repayment strategy, and agree a term extension, in Mr K and Mrs Ks circumstances, 
provided it was in their best interests. But BoS werent obliged to extend the term.
Mr K and Mrs K say extending the term is in their best interests. They say they can continue 
to meet their contractual monthly payment (CMP). They are both still working and intend to 
carry on for the time being. Mrs Ks pension covers the CMP and Mr Ks pension will 
become available later on. The loan to value ratio (LTV) is low at around 56% and as the 
property is likely to increase in value over the next few years, the LTV will fall. There is a 
charging order over the property of £150,000 but they have no other debts. Even if the 
value fell, on Mr K and Mrs Ks figures, theyd still have equity in the property.
Mr K and Mrs K say it would be convenient if they could extend the term until they are 
ready to downsize. It would remove the uncertainty which has impacted their health. They 
can continue to support their wider family in the property and accommodate their 
workspaces.
Mr K and Mrs K suggest they could reduce the capital from time to time, although the 
information theyve provided about that is conflicting. On the one hand theyve said they 
couldnt afford to make overpayments and on the other they say they havent felt able to, 
because of the uncertainty of the costs and disruption of a sale. Mr K and Mrs K say they 
could also do some improvement works to increase the value of the property. And there 
is scope for adaptations for health reasons were they to become necessary.
Mr K and Mrs K argue there are benefits to BoS in extending the term as the loan is well 
secured and the value of the property is increasing. Its unlikely the value of the property 
would fall so much that there would be negative equity even if there is another financial 
crisis or they couldnt make the CMP. BoS will receive interest for a longer period and could 
remove the mortgage from their default ledger.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments Mr K and Mrs K have made as to why the 
term extension they asked for would be in both their and BoSs best interests.Although they plan to carry on working, circumstances can change and its possible they 
may not be able to work as long as theyd like. They will pay more interest on the 
mortgage in the meantime. Its not possible to predict with certainty how property values 
will perform over the next six or seven years. And they have a charging order over the 
property of £150,000 which will also need to be paid. Despite what they say, I dont agree 
its certain that, when they come to sell the property at a time of their choosing, the equity 
will be enough to buy a suitable replacement property.
I dont think its fair for me to consider the interests of Mr K and Mrs Ks wider family since 
they arent party to the mortgage, although I understand their situation is a concern to    
Mr K and Mrs K.
The capital Mr K and Mrs K borrowed has to be repaid at some point. Mr K and Mrs K 
dont have a plan to repay the mortgage other than to sell it in six or seven years time. I 
dont think its reasonable to expect BoS to wait such a long time after term end for the 
loan to be repaid. Bearing everything in mind, on balance, I dont think it was unfair for 
BoS to reject Mr K and Mrs Ks request for a term extension.
Mr K and Mrs K have already explored some options and, while I understand it will be very 
disappointing, its possible their only option now is to sell the property. Mr K and Mrs K say 
the property is unique and may be difficult to sell. Its already three years since the 
mortgage ended and I have to be fair to BoS as well, so I wont make a direction about how 
much longer BoS should wait. But Id encourage BoS to allow Mr K and Mrs K time to sell 
the property before taking any repossession action provided Mr K and Mrs K keep BoS 
updated as to progress.
Mr K and Mrs K are unhappy with the service BoS provided in considering their 
proposals, and Ive thought carefully about that as well.
Mr K and Mrs K first approached BoS around a year before the mortgage term was 
ending and were looking to move to a repayment mortgage at that stage. BoS asked 
them to provide information about their finances. From what Ive seen, more detailed 
conversations about their situation didnt take place until around November 2018 when 
moving to a repayment mortgage seemed unaffordable and the parties began to look 
more closely at Mr K and Mrs Ks financial situation.
BoS agreed several short extensions to the mortgage and held off taking repossession 
action to allow them time to gather the financial information BoS requested and to look at 
options for raising finance through another provider. I understand Mr K and Mrs K will 
have been worried about what might happen. But, as far as Im aware, BoS havent taken 
any legal action while Mr K and Mrs Ks complaints been ongoing.
Mr K and Mrs K say theyd made it clear to BoS they couldnt afford a repayment 
mortgage. But BoS did look at that and I think it was fair and in line with FCA guidance for 
them to consider it as one of the possible options for resolving Mr K and Mrs Ks situation.
BoS escalated Mr K and Mrs Ks proposal for consideration at a higher level internally, 
although I acknowledge theyd complained by this time. They think the complaint handler 
misled them into thinking their proposal would be accepted. From what Ive seen, he 
gathered information to try and support their position, but explained the decision lay with 
others. So, I think he managed Mr K and Mrs Ks expectations that a favourable decision 
wasnt guaranteed, although I can understand they were hoping for a more positive 
outcome.Mr K and Mrs K were unhappy BoSs end of term team didnt have authority to properly 
consider their proposals. But from what the complaints handler told them, I think that team 
had a range of options they could consider - full or part conversion to repayment terms or 
short-term extensions to allow time for the sale of the property  which were broadly in line 
with FCA guidance about what a lender should think about for supporting their customers 
at term end.
Mr K and Mrs K were upset about letters BoS sent them and about what happened when 
a field agent visited them. From what Ive seen BoS wrote when they couldnt contact    
Mr K and Mrs K by phone and theres a difference of opinion about what happened when 
a field agent visited the property. I can understand Mr K and Mrs K were finding the 
possibility of losing their home stressful. But I think it was reasonable for BoS to keep in 
touch to try to resolve Mr K and Mrs Ks situation. And I havent seen any evidence BoSs 
contact with them was unreasonable, even if Mr K and Mrs K felt it wasnt productive.
I note BoS offered £100 for delays in dealing with their referral to the senior team which I 
think is fair to compensate them for that isolated issue. I dont think BoS behaved 
unreasonably or treated Mr K and Mrs K unfairly in terms of the service they provided 
overall. From what Ive seen, although BoS refused a term extension, they gave fair 
consideration to the possible options, as Id expect. So, I wont direct them to pay any 
additional compensation.
Recently Mr K and Mrs K have raised the possibility of transferring their mortgage to one of 
BoSs sister companies within the same group. Id suggest they discuss this with BoS to 
see if its a possibility if its something they wish to pursue. Bearing everything in mind, 
whilst I understand it will be disappointing, I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
Developments
BoS had no comments to make on my provisional decision. 
Mr K and Mrs K clarified some factual points and asked for confirmation Id taken them into 
account in coming to my decision. And theyve elaborated on arguments theyve made 
before. Ill summarise what they said below. If I dont mention something specifically, thats 
not because I havent considered it. Ive thought carefully about everything theyve told me 
in reaching my conclusions.
In summary, in response to my provisional decision, Mr K and Mrs K said:
1. They told BoS they couldnt afford to extend their mortgage on repayment terms 
and would never have asked BoS for a 20 year extension.
2. They only ever asked for a discretionary extension for six or seven years on an 
interest only basis.
3. They understand BoS isnt legally obliged to extend the term, but they understood 
from BoSs end of term team and FCA guidelines on interest only mortgages it 
would be possible.
4. They did suggest reducing the capital balance, amongst other things.
5. They couldnt commit to a regular payment to reduce the capital balance as they 
are self-employed, and their income can fluctuate; but they could make some discretionary payments if they knew the term would be extended. They think their 
proposals about this have been dismissed out of hand by BoS.
6. When they first approached BoS they were told there would be no problem with a 
term extension, but that theyd applied too soon. When they went back to BoS later 
they were misled that the end of term team could review their situation, when it 
couldnt. BoS hasnt provided a contact who has authority to discuss things with 
them.
7. BoSs end of term team has been unpleasant to deal with and Mr K and Mrs K think 
they are untrustworthy. They dont seek compensation for customer service issues, 
but they feel if BoS had behaved in a more commercial way, a mutually beneficial 
agreement would have been reached long ago.
8. For reasons theyve largely given before, it would be in both BoSs and Mr K and 
Mrs Ks best interests for the term to be extended. 
9. Its questionable removing the second charge against Mrs Ks interest would or 
should affect BoSs position on agreeing the extension they seek.
10. Broadly, it would be fair to extend the term given findings BoS behaved unfairly 
towards its customers during the financial crisis and tax-payers and mortgage 
customers have been helping BoS remain profitable since.
Mr K and Mrs K have asked whether I could encourage or recommend an extension to 
March 2026 and ask BoS to appoint a reasonably senior individual client-relationship 
manager to liaise with them going forward.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I take on board all the points Mr K and Mrs K have made in response to my provisional 
decision. As a general point, I need to consider fairness in relation to the individual 
circumstances of Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint  not the wider financial landscape.
I agree it would have been good practice for BoS to have discussed Mr K and Mrs Ks 
options when they first approached BoS. But I dont think that would have changed 
substantively the position they are now in. I acknowledge theyre unhappy with the way 
BoS dealt with things. But, overall, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I 
think BoS have given fair consideration to their requests and proposals. 
As Mr K and Mrs K acknowledge, they are obliged to repay their mortgage as the term 
came to an end in 2018. Whilst they consider its in their best interests for BoS to agree a 
further extension, the uncertainties around house prices and whether theyd be able to buy 
a suitable replacement property remain, whether or not Mr K and Mrs K are comfortable 
with the possible risks.
Whilst Mr K and Mrs K argue there arent disadvantages to BoS in agreeing to extend the 
term  theyd continue to make payments, the LTV is low etc.  I think its fair for BoS to 
expect the mortgage to be repaid. It is over three years now since the mortgage term 
ended. 
I understand why Mr K and Mrs K feel so strongly about the situation they are in given their 
wider family concerns. But it seems they cant repay their mortgage without selling their 
property. And I dont think its fair BoS should have to wait until seven years after the end of 
the term before Mr K and Mrs K repay what they owe.Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr K and Mrs K, 
Im not persuaded to change my conclusions. So, for the reasons Ive explained here and 
in my provisional decision, I dont uphold their complaint.
However, BoS will need to continue to act fairly towards Mr K and Mrs K. If they are able to 
give Mr and Mrs K an appropriate individual to liaise with, Ive no doubt that would be 
helpful for them. And, as I said in my provisional decision, Id encourage BoS to allow Mr K 
and Mrs K time to sell the property before taking any repossession action provided Mr K 
and Mrs K keep BoS updated as to progress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman