DRN-3820755
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) failed to help and 
support them when they wanted to remortgage their home.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs W, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr W. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr W said hed asked L&C to help him remortgage his home. He said the agent he dealt with
was very reactive rather than proactively following up with him. Mr W said there were a
number of times that L&Cs agent had promised to call, but didnt. And Mr W also said the
agent had misled him into believing he couldnt remortgage his house without making an
offer first.
Mr W said that he eventually gave up and remortgaged directly with his current lender, with
no difficulty. Mr W wanted L&C to write him a letter of apology, and to change its process to
deal with customer feedback on new cases.
L&C didnt agree. It said that Mr W had contacted its agent (whom I wont name here) on 16
September, with further discussions taking place on 21 and 28 September, 20 October and
17 November.
L&C said that at each stage when Mr W discussed his situation with its agent, the agent was
able to answer Mr Ws questions, but Mr W wasnt in a position to go ahead with applying for
a mortgage. Thats why L&Cs agent had asked Mr W to get back in touch when he was
ready to proceed. L&C didnt think its agent had let Mr W down.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. But Mr W didnt agree. He said
that L&C should at least have tried to help him remortgage with his current lender, where he
said he was able to remortgage directly and without any fuss. Mr W said that either L&C
acted unprofessionally, which should be recognised, or it discriminated against him for an
unknown reason.
Mr W wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then asked L&C for further information on its discussions with Mr W, and it 
has provided our service with a considerable amount of additional detail on Mr Ws enquiry, 
and on the advice and support it was able to give him.
L&C said that in the initial enquiry he made on 16 September 2021, Mr W was looking to
raise additional capital to invest in new property. L&C said a number of options were
discussed, including remortgaging his home, which would be possible, but Mr W had a fixed
interest deal on his current mortgage, which ran until April 2022, and there was a charge for
exiting this early. Mr W was in the early stages of his planning at the time, he was thinking
about buying another property local to him which he understood would shortly be up for sale,
but also considering buying a property for a family member too. The agent discussed options
for remortgaging early, and for providing support to Mr W with a buy to let mortgage, but as
Mr Ws plans were at such an early stage, the discussion ended with Mr W agreeing to come
back to L&C once his plans were a little firmer.
L&C said its agent spoke to Mr W twice on 28 September. Mr Ws current lender had valued
his home at £410,000 and Mr W wanted to appeal that. Mr W also said his employment was
potentially not secure going forwards and L&Cs agent explained L&C would need to tell the
lender that, so it might be best to stay with his current lender. That would also be quicker.
L&C then spoke to Mr W a second time, and explained he could move to a new deal with his
existing lender without underwriting checks, but checks would be carried out if Mr W did
want to raise extra capital. Mr W remained keen to borrow more, to use the equity in his
house to fund a different purchase, but L&C warned this might be difficult with the
uncertainty over his job.
L&C said its agent spoke to Mr W again briefly on 29 September, just to confirm the account
number of his existing mortgage. Mr W said on that call that his offer for the property local to
him hadnt been accepted, so he wasnt going ahead with this purchase at that time.
L&C said it spoke to Mr W on 20 October, and confirmed Mr Ws existing lender wouldnt
waive the early repayment charge (ERC) on his existing mortgage deal. Mr W said he still
hadnt been able to agree a price on the property he was interested in, and was no longer
looking to purchase for a family member. L&C said then that Mr W would need to have an
offer confirmed to go ahead with the additional lending, so that the lender would know how
much was needed, and what the extra money was being used for. Mr W said hed call back
when he had an offer accepted.
L&C said its advisor rang Mr W on 17 November to see if hed yet had any offer accepted.
Mr W said not, he was looking at other properties. Mr W said hed also contacted his existing
lender directly about his mortgage. L&C said again that it would be happy to help once Mr W
had an offer accepted, and invited Mr W to get back in touch then.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
It appears, from the history of enquiries that L&C has set out for us, as if L&C did 
attempt to assist Mr W with raising extra funds from his house. But it also appears as if 
Mr Ws plans were at an early stage, at this time. I understand Mr W returned to discuss 
a buy to let purchase with L&C some time later.
I can also see that L&C noted two key difficulties with helping Mr W to raise money by 
increasing the borrowing on his house. The first is that Mr W had an existing deal on his 
mortgage which was going to run until April 2022, and if he ended that deal early, then 
he would have to pay an ERC. And the second was that Mr W said his job wasnt 
secure, going forward.
I think that the reason L&C didnt obtain a new mortgage offer for Mr W was likely to 
have been because he wasnt quite ready to go ahead at that time, he hadnt finalised 
his plans for a new purchase. I think its reasonable for L&C to ask Mr W to come back 
to it, once his plans are a little firmer. But I also note that L&C didnt rely solely on this, 
and contacted Mr W again after a reasonable amount of time had elapsed, to see if his plans had moved forward. I think thats a fair and reasonable approach to take in the 
circumstances that L&C has described.
I also note that L&C was realistic about the difficulties Mr W might face with 
remortgaging. Mr W said that he was able to remortgage with his existing lender with no 
difficulties at all, but this does appear to be what L&C had suggested he do, and the 
easiest way of avoiding problems caused by the insecurities surrounding his 
employment.
I havent been able to see that L&C has acted unprofessionally in the advice it gave Mr 
W about remortgaging his home, or that it has treated him differently from other 
customers. I know that Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should 
be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman