DRN-4188479
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) failed to follow 
his instructions to only correspond with him in the written form and that this amounts to 
discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. 
What happened
Mr B held an account with first direct. At Mr Bs request a marker was placed on his account 
saying he only wanted written communication and that he didnt want to be contacted by 
phone or email. Mr B didnt provide an explanation for his request.
In March 2023 Mr B made a series of payments to another account. One of these payments 
got picked up by first direct as part of its fraud prevention processes and extra security 
checks were needed before the payment could be authorised. First direct called Mr B but 
couldnt get hold of him so left a voicemail asking that he contact it urgently and providing a 
number to call. Mr B failed to get in touch, so the payment was returned. 
Mr B complained to first direct that it hadnt fulfilled the Equality Act 2010 because it had 
asked him to call it back.
First direct says it had to call Mr B to carry out its security checks for fraud prevention 
reasons and that it had asked Mr B to get in touch in order to find out why he needed written 
correspondence only. It says if it was able to understand his reasons for this request it may 
be able to suggest an alternative such as communicating through a third party.
Mr B was dissatisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr B wants an 
apology, a proposed resolution and compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt think first direct had treated 
Mr B unfairly. They thought first directs actions in calling Mr B were necessary to carry out 
its security checks and that it was reasonable to ask Mr B for the reason why he requires 
written communication so it could look at alternative options for him.
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make a bank 
change its systems or processes  such as how and when it carries out its security checks 
and how it communicates with its customers. And while we take all relevant law and 
regulation into consideration, it is not our job to enforce the law. We offer an informal dispute 
resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role. 
My role here is to look at the problems that Mr B has experienced and see if first direct has 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. If it has, if possible, Id seek to put Mr B back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr B complains that first direct discriminated against him and breached the Equality Act 
2010 when it left a voicemail asking him to call it back when hed previously asked to only be 
contacted in the written form.
So the question I have to ask is whether first direct did anything wrong in calling Mr B about 
a payment he wished to make and asking that he call back. And I dont think it did. I 
appreciate that Mr B had asked first direct to correspond with him in writing and Id expect 
that first direct adhere to that when possible. 
But Mr Bs needs have to be balanced with first directs need to fulfil its obligations in relation 
to fraud prevention and security. In this case given the contemporaneous nature to the 
security check on the transaction he wished to make, I dont think it is unreasonable that first 
direct wished to carry this out over the phone.
Though in saying that I would expect first direct to make reasonable adjustments to its 
processes where a customer has a particular need and where it can. And from what Ive 
seen I think first direct is trying to do just that. It has recognised that Mr B has concerns 
around communicating over the phone and by asking about his reasons for this I think it is 
trying to understand his needs further so it can offer him appropriate alternatives. But Mr B 
so far has been unwilling to engage. 
So I dont think first direct has treated Mr B unfairly and it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman