DRN-3059919
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs H says she was mis-sold PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. AXA has given me a copy of the store card application form that Mrs H 
signed. In this, there was a brief description of account cover which included purchase 
protection, price protection and PPI. As Mrs H has only complained about PPI, I havent 
considered the additional cover in this decision. There was a separate section within the 
form for account cover which Mrs H has signed to indicate she wanted to take it out. And 
I think it was equally clear she could have left it blank if she didnt want PPI. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs H enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs H. Although Mrs H says 
she had a number of medical conditions some time before the policy was taken out, I 
dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve 
caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because two of the 
issues mentioned, an operation and a chest infection, were standalone issues that dont 
appear to have had long lasting effects on Mrs H. And they occurred at least twelve 
years before Mrs H took out the policy. Mrs H also mentioned having back pain around 
28 years before the sale and again hasnt mentioned this having any lasting issues on 
her health after that point. Finally, shes mentioned a condition which she was diagnosed 
with around 25 years before the sale and which she maintains with medication. She 
hasnt taken more than a week off work at a time for the condition, so again I think its 
unlikely she would have expected to rely on the cover for this condition. It also looks like 
the policy was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs H would have declined the cover had AXA 
done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman