DRN-3859749
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to keep her updated about the 
progress of an account transfer as it had promised.
What happened
Mrs C held an account with another business. She wanted to switch to a current account 
with Lloyds. She provided the relevant details and indicated that she wished to be kept up to 
date on the progress of the switch by email and SMS.
Lloyds failed to update her by this method, but wrote a letter to her to tell her when the 
account switch was completed. Mrs C asked a staff member about this, and was wrongly 
told that updates by email and SMS were not available in such account switches.
Lloyds agreed that it had failed to keep Mrs C updated about the switch as it had offered, but 
says that the switch was not delayed and that it wrote to her when the this was completed. It 
confirmed that the staff member who said these updates were not available was wrong to 
say so. It apologised to Mrs C and paid her £30 to reflect any distress or inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds had made mistakes, but that it had done enough to put 
them right already.
Mrs C did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree, and I am satisfied, that Lloyds failed to email or text Mrs C as it ought to 
have done. It told her that it would keep her updated on the progress of the switch and it did 
not do so. I can understand that Mrs C was concerned at the absence of updates. But there 
is no evidence to suggest that the switch was delayed. There is nothing to suggest any 
missed payments or other financial impact. I couldnt see that Mrs C contacted the bank 
during the process to let it know that she was particularly concerned about the lack of 
updates here. So I dont think the bank could have been aware of the impact the situation 
was having on her. While there were no text updates, Lloyds confirmed to Mrs C in writing 
that the switch had been completed.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this was a small administrative error which did not 
impact the carrying out of the account switch. While I can understand that Mrs C feels 
dissatisfied that the staff member gave her the wrong information about text updates, I do 
not think that this had any impact upon the account switch and am satisfied that it did not 
cause any real additional inconvenience.
I think that the banks apology, together with a payment of £30 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused, is a fair and reasonable way of dealing with this complaint. I am not 
going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman