DRN-1585980
 
The complaint
Ms S complains that Lloyds Bank plc continued to pursue her for payment of a debt after it 
told her it would put her account on hold and she wouldnt have to make any further 
payments.
What happened
Ms S had a credit card account with Lloyds. She experienced financial difficulties and 
contacted Lloyds to discuss the matter. 
Ms S says Lloyds mis-sold the credit card to her in the first place. And, she says that Lloyds 
gave her assurances on three occasions in September and October 2016 that because of 
her financial difficulties, she wouldnt have to make any further payments to the account. She 
says she was told she could ignore any letters of default that would be issued to her. And, 
although a note would be placed on her credit file no further action would be taken against 
her as the matter would be frozen.
Ms S says that despite these assurances she continued to get threatening letters from 
Lloyds and from third parties she says it had sold the debt to. She says shes complained to 
Lloyds about this several times. But Lloyds hasnt phoned her back even though it promised 
to do so. She says shes had to keep repeating her complaint each time the debt is sold on 
to a different third party. So, she complained again to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated her complaint and sent her its final response in March 2019. It said it had 
previously dealt with several complaints Ms S had made to it. It said it didnt uphold her 
complaint and wouldnt write off the balance she owed to it.
Ms S didnt agree and so she complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that the date on the final response letter 
from Lloyds was 22 March 2019. Because shed only raised the complaint with our service 
on 24 September we couldnt consider it since it was out of time.
Ms S didnt agree. She was able to provide a copy of Lloyds' final response letter and it was 
dated 25 March 2019. She said Lloyds had altered the date on the letter it sent to us and 
that her complaint should be upheld because Lloyds had made a crooked attempt to alter an 
important timeframe.
Our service looked into the point Ms S had made. It asked Lloyds to comment on the date 
which appeared on the copy of the letter it had sent to us. Lloyds acknowledged that the 
date on the letter sent to Ms S was 25 March 2019. It said the version it had sent us had the 
date the letter was prepared and not the date that the letter had been issued. It said this was 
an administrative error and not an attempt to mislead our service.
Our service appointed a new investigator to look again at Ms Ss complaint. He considered 
firstly the part of Ms Ss complaint about the card having been mis-sold. He said shed raised 
this with Lloyds in 2016 and it had issued a final response letter at that time. But she hadnt 
brought it to our service until 2019. Lloyds hadnt given us permission to consider this part of 
her complaint and she hadnt indicated that there were any exceptional circumstances for 
not referring the case to us earlier. So, he said our service wasnt able to look into this part of 
her complaint.
Our investigator then considered the rest of Ms Ss complaint. He said that when shed 
raised her concerns about her financial difficulties in 2016, Lloyds had written to her and told 
her she should contact its Customer Services Unit (CSU) but she hadnt done that. He said 
that although she had found the subsequent letters from Lloyds to be threatening, these 
letters were sent under the relevant legislation and so it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds 
to send them.
He also said that Lloyds had fully explained the position to her in its final response letter 
dated 13 November 2017. That letter had indicated that the debt was not on hold and no 
other holds had been agreed with her. He also considered the actions that Lloyds had taken 
and he noted it hadnt charged any interest or fees on the debt since September 2016. So, 
he didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms S didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has raised several issues. So, Ill deal with each separately:
The date of Lloyds' final response letter
Im satisfied that when Ms S brought her complaint to our service she did so less than six 
months after the date of the final response letter from Lloyds  which was dated 25 March 
2019. Ive thought about what Ms S has said about the different date on the two copies of 
the final response letter. Ive also considered the explanation that Lloyds has provided. 
Having done so, on balance, Im satisfied with the explanation that Lloyds has provided. 
It is also the case that the decision initially made by our service concerning this aspect of the 
matter would always have been subject to the right to be referred to an Ombudsman. Ms S 
couldve asked for such a referral and an Ombudsman wouldve been able to look at 
everything again. So, I dont agree that this is a reason why our service shouldve decided to 
uphold her complaint without any further investigation.
The sale of the credit card
I agree with what our investigator has said concerning Ms Ss complaint about mis-selling of 
the credit card. Lloyds dealt with this complaint in its final response letter dated 9 September 
2016. That letter made it clear to Ms S that if she didnt agree she could complain to our 
service within six months of the date of that letter. But she didnt complain to our service until 
2019. 
In her response to our investigators view Ms S says that she wasnt bringing a complaint 
about this matter. She says she included this only as part of the history of her complaint. Ive 
noted what Ms S has told us. And, I wont make any further comment regarding this.
How Lloyds has treated Ms S when she was in financial difficulties
Ms S has raised issues about how shes been treated whilst in financial difficulties. I can see 
from what shes told us that this has been a very difficult time for her and Im sorry to hear 
about the difficulties shes experienced. When a customer tells a financial organisation shes got financial difficulties, wed expect it to treat her positively and sympathetically. So, Ive 
thought about whether Lloyds has done that in this case.
Some of the issues Ms S has raised with us now have previously been dealt with by Lloyds. 
So, for example, Ms S has told us about assurances she got in September and October 
2016 that the debt would be frozen. But I can see that in its final response letter dated 13 
November 2017 Lloyds told Ms S it didnt agree shed been given any such assurances and 
referred to a conversation that it had with her in December 2016. 
It says that in December 2016 itd asked her to come back to it with her financial information 
so that it could review her income and expenditure. But it said she didnt do that. It said it 
had agreed a hold for thirty days to allow her to do this but no other holds had been agreed. I 
can also see that in its letters to her in June 2016 and September 2016 Lloyds had 
suggested she contact its CSU team to discuss the account. But it says she didnt do that. 
So, I think Lloyds had given her opportunities to engage with it.
Ms S had six months from the date of Lloyds letter, 13 November 2017, to refer this matter 
to our service if she didnt agree with what Lloyds had told her. But she didnt do that even 
though she says Lloyds missed pre-arranged appointments with her to discuss the letter.
Ms S told us about third parties that started to contact her about the credit card debt. Lloyds 
says these third parties acted as its agents. This started in January 2017. 
She says Lloyds didnt engage with her and failed to keep appointments. But I can see that 
the third-party agents did engage with Ms S. When she raised an issue with them it was 
referred to Lloyds and it sent responses. As Ive mentioned above Lloyds sent Ms S a 
response to a complaint shed raised with one of the third parties in November 2017.
So, Im satisfied that after November 2017, despite whatever assurances she believed she 
may have previously been given, Ms S was aware the debt was not on hold and Lloyds 
expected it to be repaid.
As mentioned above wed expect Lloyds to engage with Ms S positively and sympathetically 
when she was in financial difficulties. But I dont think that means the debt should be written 
off or that she shouldnt have to make any payments at all.
I can see that Lloyds has frozen the interest on the account which means that any 
repayments will be applied directly against the outstanding debt. And, its also told Ms S that 
she can seek independent and free advice from money advisers who might be able, on her 
behalf, to discuss the possibility of reduced payments on the account.
So, having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably. And, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Irene MartinOmbudsman