DRN-3623783
The complaint
Mr S complains Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited have done nothing to help him with his 
debt.
What happened
Mr S says hes been in extreme financial difficulties since June 2010, and that hes been 
sending income and expenditure (I&E) forms since then. He said hes also sent Cabot letters 
from his GP saying hes disabled, and his condition is serious, but despite this Cabot have 
done nothing to help him. Mr S added he didnt agree with Cabots failure to follow the 
Equality Act 2010 by treating him as a non-disabled person when he is disabled and thats 
confirmed by his GP and said theyd discriminated against him.
Cabot said due to past I&E forms theyve not put a repayment plan in place, and no funds 
have been received to the account since 2017. They didnt agree they had discriminated 
against him, had provided reasonable adjustments as required under the Equality Act 2010, 
and didnt think theyd broken any laws or regulations.
As Mr S wasnt happy with this, he asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did 
so, and overall felt Mr S debt should be written off.
Cabot accepted our Investigators recommendation, and said the account is no longer being 
reported to the Credit Reference Agencies, so they cant make any alterations, and the 
closure will have no impact on his credit score.
Mr S said he agreed the debt should be written off but said he should have been awarded 
some compensation as hed provided more than enough information to show the debt should 
be written off. He added Cabot had failed to follow the Equality Act 2010 and have 
discriminated against him because hes disabled and theyve failed to acknowledge that.
Because Mr S didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted our Investigators view that the debt should be written off, and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this creates an unfair outcome for each party, I dont need to 
discuss this in much detail. I agree the debt should now be written off.
The outstanding issue to consider is Mr S request for compensation. I should explain that in 
order to award him compensation Id need to be satisfied Cabot had made an error. 
As a starting point, I think Cabots requirement for Mr S to have completed an I&E form 
along with providing some medical evidence that his conditions were unlikely to get better, is 
reasonable. 
I say that because Cabot hadnt received any financial information from Mr S since 2018. 
This means Cabots information about his financial situation were several years out of date. I 
appreciate Mr S would point to his letters explaining he didnt have any money, but its 
standard practice when someone is experiencing financial difficulties for an I&E to be 
completed. So, I think Cabot asking for an I&E alongside further medical evidence and 
offering Mr S the ability to complete it online rather than having to post documents, was 
reasonable and factored in his difficult circumstances.
I can see our Investigator also asked Mr S for updated financial information, in which he 
replied he was unable to send information in as he was just too unwell.
In relation to the medical evidence, the only information Ive been provided with by Mr S from 
his Doctor is dated August 2021  the same time as this complaint to Cabot that Im 
considering. Ive seen Cabot have been saying to Mr S they dont have anything from his 
Doctors which confirms whether Mr S could get better in the future.
I think this is important, because if someone had a reasonable prospect of getting better, and 
returning to work, then it perhaps wouldnt be reasonable for Cabot to write off the debt  
when Mr S could have been in a position in future to then repay the debt.
I understand Mr S frustration over this, as he says its clear he wouldnt get better. But I 
wouldnt expect Cabot to attempt to interpret someones health condition themselves, and 
whats likely to happen in future, from a Doctors note that doesnt say this. This could only 
have come from Mr S Doctor.
The note from the Doctor now confirms Mr S has been suffering from a number of serious 
health conditions for over five years at this point. At this is the first evidence Ive seen of this 
Ive seen no reason to say Cabot have acted unfairly prior to this.
Overall, although Cabot have now accepted our Investigators outcome, as Ive set out 
above, I dont think that means theyve acted unfairly by asking for further information when 
they did. Because of that, I wont be awarding compensation.
Mr S says after hed told Cabot he was disabled they didnt really change how they were 
dealing with him and because of this he feels theyve discriminated against him. Ive noted 
Mr S didnt specify what reasonable adjustments he may have wanted. But I have noted 
Cabot did recognise he had a long-term health condition  which is why they placed his 
account with their Specialist Support Team who deal with customers who have additional 
needs. And Ive seen he may have had a preference not to receive calls, and Cabot did offer 
him the opportunity to communicate in writing only.
Mr S has said hes been discriminated against under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken that 
into account when deciding this complaint  given its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr S wants a decision that 
Cabot have breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited to write off Mr S outstanding debt.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman