DRN-1793980
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (BOS), associated with their mortgages. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S first took out a mortgage with BOS in 1991. They also took out a PPI policy 
related to this mortgage, to provide cover for accident, sickness or unemployment (AS&U) 
for Mr S only. This PPI policy was cancelled in 2002 when a new PPI policy was taken out, 
the new policy being effective from January 2003. In addition to theAS&U cover for Mr S 
only, Mr and Mrs S added life cover for Mrs S in 2002.
Further changes were made and new PPI policies were taken out in 2004 and 2006, each 
time the previous policy being cancelled. In 2004 the new PPI policy was taken providing the 
same cover as in 2002 and in addition adding life cover for Mr S. In 2006 the new PPI policy 
did not include any life cover at all and went back to providing cover for Mr S only, for AS&U. 
In 2016 the PPI was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs S have complained to BOS that the PPI policies were mis-sold but BOS hasnt 
upheld their complaint. 
BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on any 
of the premiums that needed to be repaid. It said that the mortgages Mr and Mrs S took out 
didnt fall within the rules and guidance introduced about this. Therefore, BOS said no refund 
for excess commission and profit share was due.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with what BOS said so brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold and what BOS had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. This service is an informal 
dispute resolution service which aims to reach a fair and reasonable solution to complaints. 
Our decisions are made based on the evidence available as presented by both parties. 
Where a complaint is made that PPI is mis-sold, a decision has to be made on the balance 
of probabilities from the evidence provided as to whether the PPI was or wasnt mis-sold. 
That decision will then determine if any compensation is due to be paid or not. 
In this complaint Mr and Mrs S have been unable to provide a great deal of information 
about what has happened at various times with their mortgage and the PPI policies that they took out. The most recent policy was taken out in 2006 and this was some 14 years ago, so 
it isnt surprising they cannot remember a great deal about this sale and those that occurred 
earlier. And they do not seem to have any old records they retained that referred to any of 
the mortgages and PPI. 
It also is not surprising that BOS also only has limited records available about the various 
mortgage and PPI applications, again because the applications were all made many years 
ago. It has been able to provide some computer screen shots with some summary 
information about the mortgages and PPI but has little documentary evidence available. 
BOS has however been able to provide a copy of the declaration signed by Mr and Mrs S in 
December 2002 for one of the policies. It has also provided a letter from February 2006 
relating to the PPI policy taken out that year that was sent to Mr and Mrs S to confirm all the 
details provided. So there is some additional information from the time of these two PPI 
sales. 
Mr and Mrs S say all the PPI policies were mis-sold as the PPI was packaged together with 
the mortgage and they didnt understand they had a choice about taking it out. They also say 
the benefits and exclusions were not explained to them so they could not make an informed 
decision as they thought they had to accept the PPI or their mortgage could not go ahead. 
Mr and Mrs S also feel that they have been subjected to the selling of products they didnt 
understand or need given their circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S have indicated Mr S was in the same job for 25 years and so his 
circumstances regarding employment would have remained the same throughout the time 
they had their mortgages and all the PPI polices. Mrs S had occasional part-time jobs but 
was not in regular employment.
With all the sales BOS had in place processes for advisors to follow when the policy was 
sold. I cannot know exactly what was said to Mr and Mrs S at the time of any of the sales 
and if full information about the PPI was always provided. 
The sale of the PPI of the first PPI policy related to the first mortgage Mr and Mrs S took out 
with BOS in 1991. The computer data provided by BOS only indicates that the PPI was 
agreed to and the cover selected was to cover Mr S only for AS&U. No life cover was taken 
at the time for either Mr or Mrs S.
As the cover they took out was only to cover Mr S some discussion about this must have 
taken place as Mr and Mrs S made decisions about the type of cover and who it was to 
cover. It is possible with PPI to have joint cover where both mortgage applicants have cover 
on a proportionate basis. Here Mr and Mrs S chose 100% for Mr S. So, I think it is most 
likely some discussion took place about their circumstances and the PPI. So Mr and Mrs S 
should have been aware at the time they had a choice to take it out and selected the cover 
they wanted.
From the limited information available about Mr and Mrs S circumstances from their 
recollections and also the basic information on BOS systems, it seems Mr S was eligible for 
the cover they took out. He was in full time employment with no unusual employment 
conditions. 
I have also considered if the policy was suitable for Mr S, as he was the only one covered by 
it.  I cannot be sure if full details and any restrictions of the policy were explained in any 
detail to Mr and Mrs S. So, I have looked at what information has been provided from the 
records of BOS, and by Mr and Mrs S from their recollections, to see if any restrictions would have affected any claim by Mr S and so affected the decision whether to take out the PPI or 
not.
There is nothing to indicate that Mr S had any pre-existing medical conditions that would 
have affected any claim for sickness, and he was employed with no unusual employment 
circumstances. Mr S would have had some employment sickness benefits if he had been off 
work sick and he may have received a basic redundancy payment if made unemployed. But 
the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits or redundancy payment. 
And the PPI would have been useful to pay the mortgage at what could have been a difficult 
time if Mr S was not working for any reason. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they had some savings. But again, savings could have been needed 
for other living expenses and may have been essential if Mr S was not working. 
I have seen nothing to show Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if something went 
wrong and Mr S was unable to work for any reason.
The cost and benefit would have been set out at the time of sale, and as I have already 
indicated Mr and Mrs S made choices about the benefits and cover they wanted. So overall, 
I cannot see this PPI policy was mis-sold as Mr and Mrs S made choices about taking it out 
and could have benefitted in full if they had needed to claim. The cost was also reasonable 
when considering the benefits chosen and there is nothing to indicate the PPI was 
unaffordable.
In December 2002 Mr and Mrs S took out a new PPI policy. For this sale a copy of the 
mortgage application and declaration on the mortgage form completed at the time is 
available. There is a complete section which addresses the mortgage PPI and which both 
Mr and Mrs S have signed. This confirms that the information provided for the PPI is true 
and complete at the time as well as some additional information about requirements for the 
PPI.
With this PPI policy Mr and Mrs S added life cover for Mrs S. So again, this suggests the 
policy cover must have been discussed and the cover levels were chosen by Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S have indicated their circumstances hadnt change when they took out this 
policy and so for the same reasons I have indicated above I can see no reason why this 
policy was mis-sold. 
In 2004 it seems a further PPI policy was taken out that changed the cover again to this time 
include life cover for Mr S as well as Mrs S, and again Mr S continues to have 100% of the 
cover for AS&U. Again there is no indication of any change to Mr and Mrs S circumstances. 
So as previously I think the policy cover was discussed and Mr and Mrs S chose to take out 
the cover with the amendment to the life cover. And I have seen nothing to show that this 
policy was mis-sold.
The final replacement policy was taken out in 2006. For this policy a letter sent by BOS to 
Mr and Mrs S confirming their application for the policy had been approved has been 
provided. On this occasion Mr and Mrs S only took out cover for AS&U for Mr S only and 
took no life cover. This letter sets out clearly what the monthly payment is, explains the 
benefits that have been selected and indicates that if Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the 
cover they can return the enclosed cancellation form to cancel the PPI.
So this letter reaffirmed information about the cost and benefit as well as the level and type 
of cover provide, as would have been discussed at the time of the application. This letter 
made it very clear that the PPI was an optional product, separate to their mortgage.This indicates that Mr and Mrs S again had chosen to take out the PPI and had made 
choices about the level of cover they wanted. There is nothing to show any change in their 
circumstances, so they would not have been affected by any restrictions of the policy and I 
think they wanted the benefit the policy could provide. So I cannot see that it was mis-sold. 
In summary, its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs S at the time of the various 
sales of the PPI policies wasnt as clear as it couldve been. But I think on each occasion  
Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the PPI, selecting the cover and benefits they felt they 
needed - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And I dont think better information 
about the PPI policies would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking out the cover as they were not 
affected by any restrictions at any time the policies were taken out.
It follows I dont think the PPI policies were mis-sold by BOS. I think at the time of each sale 
it is most likely Mr and Mrs S were aware they had a choice whether to take out the PPI and 
they decided to do so as they thought it would be useful.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums needs to be refunded by BOS. However, the type of mortgages Mr and Mrs S took 
out are not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded by 
BOS for any of the PPI policies. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI policies were mis-sold by Bank of 
Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to Mr and Mrs S and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman