DRN-3122268
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) lost the title deeds to their 
property.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited, trading 
as Advantage, on 22 March 2007. In July 2007, the mortgage was transferred to 
E-MEX Home Funding Limited (E-MEX) and TMW became administrators for the mortgage 
in 2011. 
Mr and Mrs M redeemed the mortgage on 26 November 2020 and requested the title deeds 
for their property. TMW sent all the information it held relating to the mortgage but this didnt 
include the title deeds. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint.
TMW responded advising Mr and Mrs W it had sent all the information it held relating to the 
mortgage. It also explained that the title deeds are no longer needed if the title has been 
electronically registered with the Land Registry, which Mr and Mrs Ms property had been. It 
paid Mr and Mrs M £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused for not informing them of 
this sooner. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. They explained that based on the evidence 
provided they thought TMW never held the title deeds for Mr and Mrs Ms property. This was 
because the title had been registered electronically with the Land Registry and had been 
since the mortgage was taken out on 22 March 2007. They thought TMW could have 
explained this sooner to Mr and Mrs M, but felt the £75 compensation fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Title deeds are the documents that set out the ownership history of a property. They also 
give details about the property itself and the land it is on. 
Since October 2003, after the implementation of the Land Registry Act 2002, the Land 
Registry switched to electronic records as proof of title and lenders no longer required any 
paper documents for new mortgages. This meant it became normal practice for title deeds to 
be scanned, registered and then destroyed  as electronic versions became sufficient official 
copies. This meant that if a property was sold after 2003, this would need to be registered 
electronically. Whereas, before this date, the paper title would need to be updated. 
Mr and Mrs M secured their mortgage in 2007 and the title deeds have been electronically 
registered with the Land Registry. TMW have provided a copy of the Deed Schedule 
completed by the solicitors at the time Mr and Mrs M secured their mortgage in 2007. This 
lists the documents sent to Advantage when the mortgage was taken out, and also explains 
that Advantage will not accept or hold any pre-registration deeds relating to the property now 
registered. 
Considering that Mr and Mrs Ms title deeds are registered electronically, that normal 
practice was to destroy title deeds once registered electronically, and that Advantage 
outlined it wouldnt hold any pre-registration deeds relating to the property. I think its more 
likely than not that Advantage never held the title deeds, and these couldnt be relocated 
when ownership of the mortgage transferred to E-MEX, and then to TMW when they 
became administrators for the mortgage. 
TMW say it sent all documents relating to the mortgage when Mr and Mrs M requested it to 
do so. The Deed Schedule lists the documents that TMW would have held for the mortgage 
and with the exception of the Buildings Insurance Declaration (which isnt relevant to the title 
deeds), Mr and Mrs M have provided our service with copies of all the documents listed in 
the Deed Schedule. So, Im satisfied TMW sent Mr and Mrs M all the documents it held 
relating to the mortgage.  
However, I do think that TMW could have explained sooner to Mr and Mrs M that their title 
deeds were now electronically registered and paper copies were no longer needed. I also 
think it could have done more to reassure Mr and Mrs M that if the property is electronically 
registered with the Land Registry they dont need the paper copies to confirm ownership. 
I think the uncertainty of not knowing about the electronic process and whether their 
ownership of the property was safe from manipulation would have caused Mr and Mrs M 
distress. I think TMW has fairly recognised this by paying Mr and Mrs M £75, so I wont be 
asking them to pay anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman