DRN-2791338
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as K, complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank Plc put in 
place a guarantee that it gave for the liabilities of another company. 
 
In bringing this complaint K is represented by its director  who I refer to as Mr O 
  
What happened
 Mr O has told us that in 2013, as part of the restructure of a number of family run companies 
K was asked to provide a guarantee for the debts of one of those companies, which I refer to 
as L. At the time Mr O was also a director of L. Following the restructure, one of Mr Os 
sons assumed responsibility for the running of L.
In August 2013 via their solicitors Lloyds wrote to K enclosing the guarantee document and 
Directors Certificate (the Certificate) for signature. Lloyds indicated a number of options for 
signing the guarantee including by one director in the presence of an independent witness. 
Lloyds mentioned that Ks decision to provide the guarantee must be duly authorised. And to 
that end Lloyds told K the enclosed Certificate had to be signed by a director or company 
secretary of K confirming a board resolution had been passed by way of authorisation.
In August 2013 also, in a separate letter to their solicitors, Lloyds enclosed further 
documents relating to the restructure. And Lloyds asked the solicitors to liaise with K to 
ensure the execution and return of all the documents to the bank for processing. Mr O 
signed the guarantee on behalf of K. Mr Os signature was witnessed by a solicitor. The 
guarantee was further secured by way of a charge over Ks assets. 
In February 2014 Mr O signed the Certificate confirming as director of K, that the guarantee 
being provided was agreed by a board resolution and that it was in the commercial interest 
and benefit of K that the guarantee be provided. 
In June 2014 Mr O resigned as a director of L. Sometime later, around August 2015 the 
guarantee was dated and formally entered into.
In January 2019, through its solicitors, K requested details of Lloydss procedures for 
obtaining the guarantee as well as the steps Lloyds had taken to comply with those 
procedures. Lloyds sent the solicitors a copy of the guarantee, the Certificate and their 
August 2013 letter, addressed to K enclosing the guarantee and Certificate. However, Lloyds 
declined to provide details of their procedures as requested. 
K didnt think Lloyds acted appropriately when the guarantee was entered into and so it 
complained to the bank. K said  in summary:
Mr O hadnt seen the guarantee in advance of signing it. And when he signed it on 
Ks behalf, he didnt have the opportunity to read the document because only the 
signature page was presented to him by the solicitor who witnessed his signature. 
Neither K nor Mr O were advised about the nature of or the consequences of signing 
the guarantee. Lloyds didnt suggest that K take independent legal advice on the 
document.
The declarations made in Certificate were untrue and Lloyds didnt ask for evidence 
to satisfy themselves they were true.
The guarantee wasnt dated and completed by Lloydss solicitors until August 2015, 
many months after Mr O signed the guarantee. And in that time Lloyds didnt attempt 
to contact K to confirm it was still willing to provide the guarantee. Had Lloyds done 
so, K would have had opportunity to request copies of the documents signed by Mr O 
for review. That way K would have realized the Certificate was incorrect, and that K 
derived no commercial benefit providing the guarantee. 
Lloyds didnt think theyd done anything wrong when putting the guarantee into place. But 
Lloyds acknowledged they provided poor service to K for which they paid K £100 
compensation. Lloyds also paid a further £50 compensation for an unrelated matter 
concerning Ks inability to register successfully for Internet banking.  
K wasnt satisfied by Lloydss response and referred its complaint to this service. 
The investigator didnt uphold Ks complaint. He also wasnt persuaded Lloyds had done 
anything wrong when they put the guarantee in place. The investigator thought that as the 
guarantee was signed in the presence of a solicitor, Lloyds could reasonably have expected 
the solicitor to be satisfied K had been provided with full details of the guarantee. And in any 
case, the investigator believed that as Lloyds were provided with the Certificate which 
confirmed K agreed to the terms of the guarantee, it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on 
that information.
K didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. So, its case has been passed to me, as 
ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
Mr Os further submissions on behalf of K, amplified the arguments K had originally made 
about Lloydss obligation to verify the accuracy of declaration provided in the Certificate. In 
particular that Lloyds should have asked to see copies of the board minutes and 
resolutions referred to in the Certificate. Mr O also provided additional comments about 
the things Lloyds did wrong procedurally - which I summarise: 
Lloyds and their solicitors breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
because during the process of obtaining the guarantee they corresponded with L on 
behalf of K and didnt include K in the communication. 
Lloyds didnt follow their own process and procedures for taking a guarantee - 
especially in relation to undue influence and conflict of interest.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Im in broad agreement with the investigator and Ill explain why. 
At the heart of Ks case is that where it has been able to discover certain aspects of Lloydss 
procedures, it doesnt believe Lloyds followed them when putting in place the guarantee. 
And K argues that because of this, it was misled into providing the guarantee. Coupled with 
the delay in the execution of the guarantee, K further believes the guarantee should be set 
aside and any liabilities K has under it removed. So, I now consider what K has said about 
the procedures it believes Lloyds did not follow or otherwise failed to conduct themselves 
appropriately:  
reliance on the Certificate K says the directors certificate is a pro-forma document with standard wording to the effect 
its in Ks commercial interest and benefit to give the guarantee. And it thinks that in terms of 
Lloydss due diligence obligation, simply relying on the Certificate didnt go far enough. K 
argues that as a customer of Lloyds, providing a guarantee of such significant value for the 
benefit of a completely unrelated company, Lloyds should for instance, have requested a 
copy of the board minutes and the written resolution mentioned in the Certificate. And 
furthermore, Lloyds should have satisfied themselves that there was a sufficient commercial 
benefit or interest for K to give the guarantee. I dont agree. 
I do not consider it was Lloydss responsibility to safeguard Ks interest. The protection of Ks 
interest was a matter for K and its directors. It seems to me the Certificate provided the 
framework for K to consider whether it was right for the company to provide the guarantee, 
bearing in mind as K rightly says, the ramification was that its assets and property was also 
to be subject to a charged as a result of giving the guarantee. The guarantee on the other 
hand was being put in place for the protection of Lloyds.
Lloyds was entitled to assume that having signed and provided them with the Certificate Mr 
O had effectively declared that a proper process had been completed whereby K did make 
sure that providing the guarantee was to its commercial benefit. It doesnt seem to me 
unreasonable that if Mr O knew the declaration being provided to Lloyds was untrue, he 
should not have signed the Certificate with the assurances provided within it. It follows that I 
do not find Lloyds should have taken any further steps to determine the accuracy of the 
Certificate.  
Lloydss communication with L and breach of GDPR in relation to K   
No doubt there would have been correspondence between L and Lloyds about the facilities L 
was being granted and which K was guaranteeing. In relation to that correspondence I dont 
think Lloyds was obliged to disclose it to K. As separate customers of Lloyds, L was entitled 
to customer confidentiality. On the more fundamental point, however, regarding the alleged 
breach of GDPR, its worth noting that GDPR only applies to data relating to individuals. In 
other words, personal data only. GDPR doesnt apply to data about limited companies which 
of course K is. So, I couldnt fairly or reasonably decide that Lloyds has done anything wrong 
here. 
Lloyds didnt follow their own process especially regarding the possibility of undue influence 
and conflict of interest
On the issue of undue influence, K has explained what it regards as good practice for banks 
when obtaining guarantees from individuals. It believes for example that among such good 
practice is that Lloyds should require the guarantor to appoint an independent solicitor and 
should check and approve the solicitor thats been appointed. K also thinks Lloyds had an 
obligation to ensure the solicitor has carried out appropriate checks on the individual 
guarantor, and that the solicitor knew the background of the lending transaction being 
guaranteed. That way K believes Lloyds would have been able to ensure sufficient legal 
advice has been provided to the guarantor in order to guard against the possibility of undue 
influence.  
The presumption of undue influence does of course apply in certain circumstances - 
including certain transactions involving husband and wife, parents and children. And there 
have been court judgements setting out the principles governing undue influence and the 
steps banks are required to take to guard against the possibility of it occurring. But the key 
difference between the circumstances surrounding Ks case and those generally envisaged 
when it comes to undue influence is precisely that which K has itself identified. K accepts Lloyds may take the view that as the guarantee was provided by a limited company rather 
than an individual there was no need to adopt the procedure it has pointed to. I agree with 
Ks observation. I dont accept Ks argument that in the absence of full access to Lloydss 
procedure, the principles relating to guarantees provided by individuals should apply equally 
to guarantees provided by a limited company
In my opinion the distinction between a guarantee provided by a limited company and one 
provided by an individual is significant. K agreed to provide that guarantee. In order to satisfy 
themselves the guarantee was being provided appropriately Lloyds made clear when they 
wrote to K in August 2013 the steps K needed to take. Mr O signed the guarantee as sole 
director. He also ensured his signature was witnessed by an independent third party  a 
solicitor as requested by Lloyds. In addition to that Mr O also signed the Certificate, the 
contents of which Im satisfied were clear and therefore complied with a further condition 
required by Lloyds. 
So, to be clear, the guarantee in question was not provided by an individual let alone in 
circumstances where there would be a presumption of undue influence which ought then to 
trigger certain procedures to guard against it. I do not therefore find that in relation to the 
guarantee K provided, Lloyds has failed to follow those procedures.   
K has pointed to Lloydss procedures on conflict of interest. It has argued there should have 
been one solicitor appointed to act for K exclusively as the provider of the guarantee. K says 
the solicitor who witnessed Mr Os signature was Ls solicitor and wasnt therefore advising 
K. K thinks that Lloyds should have recognised this. 
Ive seen correspondence between Lloydss solicitor and the solicitors who witnessed the 
guarantee. It seemed there was an understanding they were acting for K. Whether there was 
a conflict of interest on the solicitors part in the circumstances K describes is a matter for the 
solicitors. And not least because there are strict solicitors rules governing such potential 
conflicts. I do not find it was Lloydss responsibility to identify whether such conflict existed 
and to take steps to guard against it.  
In the circumstances therefore and on the basis of the evidence, I am satisfied that the 
guarantee was properly entered into by K and I can see no reason why Lloyds isnt entitled 
to rely on it.
   
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that 
the compensation of £150 already paid by Lloyds Bank plc is fair and reasonable. I simply 
leave it to K to decide if it wants to accept that in full and final settlement of its complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman