DRN-3202587
The complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Limited cannot find his pension which he wishes to 
transfer.
What happened
Mr C said that he contributed to a pension scheme with NPI via a previous employer in 
around 2001. He said Phoenix had taken over NPI. He was made redundant in 2002. He 
provided a copy HMRC letter and another letter from 2006 about his pension. He believed 
he had paid about £5 per week during his employment. He said he had been a contractor 
with the employer but was made a staff member in April 2001 and took redundancy in May 
2002 but had difficulty in getting his full redundancy pay. He didnt have any other 
documents and thought they might have been lost in a house move.
Phoenix said it had conducted a thorough search of its records on both present and dormant 
systems and not just for the scheme he claimed to be a member of. It also ordered the 
scheme file for the company he said was his employer. It had not been able to locate any 
policy through any of the searches. It therefore assumed he transferred out or left the 
scheme before it took over. It suggested he contacted the scheme trustees. It also noted that 
he had made contact in 2006 about the same matter and at that time NPI said it could not 
trace his policy either. It suggested he contact the scheme or the previous employer and 
said
Unfortunately we regret to inform you that we have been unable to locate your details on our 
records. Additionally our records do not show that you are or were part of the scheme that 
you quoted in your letter
So while it was over 18 years ago it wasnt able to find Mr Cs details when he made contact 
in 2006, a little over 4 years after he left employment. Phoenix said the copy letter from the 
Inland Revenue dated 21 February 2003 just says it had been notified that he is or intends to 
become a member of the scheme and the start date was 6 April 2001. The letter didnt 
confirm he was actually a member. Mr C had also said he left employment in May 2002.
It noted the payslips showed a deduction but said this did not mean the money was sent on 
to NPI by the employer. It provided details of the trustees of the scheme so that he could 
make further contact.
As it didnt seem Mr C was a member it didnt think he was an eligible complainant so didnt 
include details of the ability to complain to this service. It did not however say it would apply 
a time bar to the complaint. However it accepted it could have dealt with his complaint better 
and offered £50 for the trouble and inconvenience caused and sent a cheque in payment.
The investigator didnt think Phoenix needed to take any further action. He considered the 
requirements to be an eligible complainant under the rules governing this service. He 
decided that Mr C was a potential customer and eligible to bring a complaint.
With respect to the evidence while the payslips showed money deducted it didnt show they 
were sent on to NPI nor how long contributions were paid. The HMRC letter didnt show he 
actually became a member. If he had it was likely NPI would have sent some literature about 
the scheme. He couldnt explain what happened to the money. In 2006 NPI suggested he 
contact his former employer who was still trading at the time but ceased to trade in 2010. 
Further as he ceased to be a member within 2 years of starting contributions, he would have 
had the option of a refund of contributions or transfer. He felt that Phoenix had acted fairly.
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said a pension existed with NPI, as shown by the HMRC 
letter starting on 06/04/2001. His payslip showed there was a deduction. The HMRC letter 
showed there must have been funds in the pension which had not been repaid to him at the 
end of his employment. Just because it was 19 years ago didnt mean Phoenix shouldnt 
keep records. It was unfortunate he had moved several times and may have lost paperwork 
over the years and he confirmed he never received any payments from his employer for the 
pension scheme after he left employment. He had contacted the pension tracing service who 
suggested he contact the company that took over his employer in 2008. He did make contact 
and they advised he contact the scheme provider. It said it had taken over a pension 
scheme but had no record of his having any benefits in the scheme. It noted he was a 
member of a stakeholder scheme which it had not taken on.
He didnt think the £50 was adequate compensation. He thought he would have contributed 
around £250 to £260 and even after costs would have grown over the years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I must consider whether this service is able to consider this complaint. 
As the investigator said, the rules under which this service operates are set out in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
The relevant part of DISP 2.7 says 
DISP 2.7.1
A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it
is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
DISP 2.7.6
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises
from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic
money holder of the respondent;
(2) the complainant is (or was) a potential customer, payment service user or
electronic money holder of the respondent
In the light of the evidence produced in the shape of pay slips and letters from HMRC I think 
it is possible that Mr C either was or potentially was a customer of Phoenix. For that reason I 
think Mr C is an eligible complainant and we are able to consider this complaint.
For completeness I should also mention that are time limits within which a complaint must be 
brought to this service. However it is possible for a complaint to be considered out of time if 
the respondent, in this case Phoenix agrees. I have seen that this issue was raised with Phoenix and they responded to say they were not imposing a time bar on the claim. On that 
basis there was no need to consider the application of any time limits within the rules.
Secondly, I have considered the evidence presented to me.
By way of background, Stakeholder pensions were introduced in 2001 and applied  to 
employers with more than a minimum number of employees. Employers had six month from 
the introduction of stakeholder pensions to comply with the new requirements. 
The employer had to provide access to a Stakeholder scheme and deduct employee 
contribution and pay these over to the scheme, if requested by the employee. Mr C says that 
at this time he was moved from being a contractor to being on the staff and it seems he was 
offered access to a Stakeholder Pension scheme as required by the new law. I say that 
because of the deductions from his pay slips and letter from HMRC.
I have seen some copy pay slips for Mr C. These list total pay, taxable pay, tax and National 
Insurance but there is also a separate item listed as STKH Pe £5.00 (presumably 
stakeholder pension). The various payslips are date 15/03/2002, 08/02/2002, 15/02/2002, 
01/03/2002. It seems he was paid weekly. I think this shows that money was deducted from 
his salary on those dates. However the slips dont show that it was paid over to NPI nor for 
how long the deductions were made. 
It isnt possible to prove that the contributions were paid to the scheme at the time but in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary I think it I reasonable to assume that they were. I say 
that because the new regime was overseen by the then regulator  the Occupational 
Pensions Regulatory Authority, there was a lot of publicity at that time and there were record 
keeping requirements and a time period within which contributions should be paid over to the 
scheme. However stakeholder schemes were allowed to set a minimum level of 
contributions (£20) and to allow contributions to be varied from time to time. It seems 
possible that the amount deducted from Mr Cs pay (£5.00) may well have been below a 
minimum. Even if the minimum was applied to monthly pay it is possible that the amount 
might not have exceeded any minimum.
Mr C also provided a copy letter from HMRC dated 21/02/2003 headed appropriate personal 
pension/appropriate personal pension stakeholder pension acknowledgement. It says it has 
received a joint notice for beginning minimum contributions to the NPI Stakeholder Pension 
Scheme and says the start date for the arrangements was 6/4/2001. It confirms that 
contributions will be made once his qualifying earnings have been recorded in his NI 
account.
I think this HMRC letters also confirms that there was clearly an intention that he would be a 
member of the scheme and given that contributions were deducted as shown by his pay 
slips, that he must have requested to join the scheme. I say that because his employer 
would not have been able to make the deductions from his pay without his agreement. 
However the letter also does not confirm how much was paid nor when nor whether he had 
reached any minimum level of earnings nor whether a deduction was made in every payslip. 
So while the evidence suggests Mr C wished to be a member of a stakeholder scheme and 
asked for contributions to be deducted it isnt clear whether those reached the scheme or if 
they did whether they were above the minimum. Even if they had been in excess of the 
minimum and reached the scheme it seems that Mr C couldnt have been a member for 
more than 13 months. I say that because the earliest the scheme seems to have been 
available (based on the HMRC letter) was April 2001 and Mr C says he ceased to be 
employed in May 2002 and would have had under two years membership. Although I asked for a copy of the scheme rules these have not as yet been provided to me 
by Phoenix. I would have liked to check the early leaver provisions of the rules to see the 
provisions where a member left with less than 2 years service, which would have been the 
case for Mr C. 
Based on the evidence supplied it seems likely that Mr C intended to be a member and may 
well have been a member given the deductions from pay. However if he was a member it 
isnt clear that he paid consistent contributions ( as I dont have all the pay slips for the 
period in question) nor that the contribution were higher than any minimum. It also seems 
possible that as he left service within less than 2 years that any benefits would not have 
remained in the scheme.
In 2006 NPI undertook a search and couldnt find Mr C and this was repeated when he 
contacted Phoenix. Phoenix confirmed it had searched all its relevant records. Given the 
checks have now been done twice it seems likely that anything missed the first time would 
have been spotted on the second. Its a pity Mr C didnt follow up further in 2006 which was 
before the employer was taken over (2008) and the company ceased to trade (October 
2010). I note also that Mr C has made use of the Government pension tracing service and 
has been unable to find a pension with Phoenix.
On balance even if Mr C was a member at the time, I dont think there is sufficient evidence 
to show that he remained a member and that Phoenix holds any pension benefits for Mr C in 
respect of his employment at that time. I think Phoenix has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August  2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman