DRN-3983873
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy at the length of time it took Idealing.com Limited took to transfer his funds 
to its platform from a different firm. To put things right, Mr H asked for an apology for its 
failure, a refund of charges and compensation for the consequential financial losses he says 
he suffered.  
What happened
On 22 February 2022 Idealing requested a transfer of cash and in-specie funds from Mr Hs 
existing broker. A valuation was sent to Idealing by the broker, but despite chasers being 
sent, the transfer did not take place and was eventually cancelled on 16 March 2022. 
Mr H complained about the delay. He claimed that had his transfer completed on time, he 
wouldve made certain investments and these wouldve generated a profit  so he asked for 
compensation for that missed investment growth.
Idealing looked into Mr Hs complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short, it 
said that Mr Hs broker didnt comply with its procedure for accepting transfers in, and that 
was beyond its control. It also said that it didnt accept it had any liability over the 
investments Mr H said he wouldve purchased. 
Mr H didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into his complaint. He agreed that Idealing hadnt dealt with the request promptly enough, 
and awarded some compensation for the impact this had on Mr H. However, the investigator 
didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Idealing to compensate Mr H for 
investments he says he wouldve made but couldnt because of the delay in the transfer 
completing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs comments, and his reasons for believing he is entitled additional 
compensation. In short, Mr H told Idealing what trades he wouldve carried out in his emails 
of 17 and 18 March 2022. However, as the transfer didnt take place, he chose not to carry 
out those trades with his existing broker, because its fees were higher than Idealings. Since 
the shares he wouldve purchased increased in value between that time and when he 
eventually bought them, he believes he is entitled to that investment growth. 
However, whilst I understand Mr Hs argument, Im not persuaded his proposed 
compensation is fair and reasonable. Whilst I fully appreciate why he was committed to 
transferring to Idealing, its clear to me that if he wanted to own the stock he needed to buy it 
via his existing broker. He wasnt prevented from doing that. 
I accept his argument that this wouldve incurred around £600 of additional fees compared to 
what he wouldve paid with Idealing  but those fees are far less than the compensation he 
is now seeking. In other words, Mr H had an opportunity to mitigate his perceived loss by 
purchasing the stock with his existing broker  and then potentially claiming these additional 
fees based on what he thought was Idealings failure to accept the transfer quickly enough. 
The key issue is that Mr H wasnt prevented from purchasing the stock he says he wanted to 
buy. And, furthermore, by the time he notified Idealing of what he wouldve done had the 
transfer completed on time, he had already been told the transfer had been cancelled. So 
taking all this into account, Im satisfied that there are no financial losses in Mr Hs case that 
ought to be compensated, fairly and reasonably, by Idealing. 
However, its clear that the matter has caused Mr H some trouble and upset for which some 
compensation is fair and reasonable. I understand Mr Hs claim that £50 is not sufficient is 
based on the emails and efforts he went through to try and get the transfer sorted. However, 
in looking at the evidence available, its clear to me that:
The delay was limited to three weeks, and during this time Mr H wasnt prevented 
from carrying out any investment activity;
Part of the delay was not due to something Idealing did or didnt do  its clear its 
process was to accept cash via cheque only, and the evidence suggests on balance 
that this was made clear to Mr Hs existing broker. 
Mr H was, however, inconvenienced by Ideailng not responding to his brokers 
solicitations, and for that reason the transfer was cancelled. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied £50 is fair and reasonable compensation. 
Putting things right
Idealing.com Limited must pay £50 to Mr H within 28 days of when we tell it he has accepted 
this final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and award the compensation above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman