DRN-4219331
The complaint
Mr Z complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr Z was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Mr Z experienced an issue with the engine management light ultimately around 10 days after 
the got the car. He contacted the supplying dealer who advised him to change the battery 
and said it would cover the cost.
Mr Z changed the battery, but the light remained illuminated. He took the car back to the 
supplying dealer.
The supplying dealer said it wouldnt cover the cost of repairs because Mr Z had changed 
the battery himself. It said that this was the cause of the fault with the ECU.
Mr Z disagreed. He said the car had a fault when he got it.  
Mr Z complained to Santander. In its final response, Santander said that because Mr Z had 
changed the battery himself and caused further damage, it couldnt find evidence that the 
fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr Z remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said that based on the available evidence, there 
was a fault with the car prior to the battery being changed and that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
Santander didnt agree. It said that the supplying dealer had provided evidence to show that 
the fault with the car had been caused by Mr Z replacing the battery himself instead of 
getting it replaced by an approved repairer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, and other things including fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr Z was around 6 years old and had covered around 100,000 miles. Id 
expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs and 
maintenance than, say, a brand new car.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues with the car. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think its likely that there is a fault with the car. I say this because Mr Z has said that 
within 10 days of getting the car, he experienced a warning light on the dashboard. Ive seen 
an invoice for a battery dated 1 October 2022. Mr Z has said that he was advised to change 
the battery when he first reported the issues with the warning light to the supplying dealer. 
This hasnt been disputed by the dealership or Santander. I think its very unlikely that Mr Z 
wouldve changed the battery for no reason.
Ive also considered the invoice dated 30 November 2022. This states that the car has had a 
previous wiring repair and diagnosed a fault code for low pressure EGR valve circuit and 
engine signal.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the car had a fault at the point of supply. I 
appreciate that Santander believes that the fault was caused by Mr Z fitting the new battery 
himself. Ive thought about this, but Im not persuaded that the evidence supports this. Even 
if Mr Z did fit the battery himself, Im persuaded that he only did so on the advice of the 
supplying dealer in response to the fault that Mr Z had reported. Further, Ive seen a job card 
relating to the car dated 22 March 2022 (prior to when Mr Z got the car). This shows that 
checks were carried out on the car because of warning lights and a code relating to low 
pressure EGR valve was found. This is the same fault code that was diagnosed by the 
garage after Mr Z had replaced the battery. This suggests that the car had a fault relating to 
the EGR valve before it was supplied to Mr Z, and before the battery was replaced.
Taking everything into account. I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. Santander should take steps to put things right. 
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. In 
this case, Mr Z reported the fault to the supplying dealer, and it advised him to change the 
battery. It has also had the car back for repairs since then. In the circumstances, I dont think 
the business should be given any further opportunities to repair the fault. Mr Z should be 
allowed to reject the car.
Mr Z has said that he was advised to change the battery by the dealership and that they 
would cover the costs. This isnt disputed by Santander. Ive seen an invoice for a new 
battery for £133.69. As far as Im aware, Mr Z hasnt yet been refunded these costs. I think 
its fair to ask Santander to refund this.
Mr Z hasnt been able to use the car since 2 October 2022 because it was returned to the 
garage for repairs and the fault has never been fixed. He was provided with a courtesy car 
from 2 October 2022 until 15 December 2022 but hasnt had use of a car since then. I dont 
think its fair that Mr Z should make payments for a car which he isnt able to use because it 
was of unsatisfactory quality, so any monthly payments paid by Mr Z since 15 December 
2022 should be refunded.
Its clear that Mr Z has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of the issues 
with the car. Hes told this service that he had to buy a new car so he could get to work. In 
the circumstances I think its fair to ask Santander to pay compensation to Mr Z for the 
trouble and upset hes been caused as a result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr Z
Refund all monthly payments made by Mr Z since 15 December 2022
Refund the cost of the new battery
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay £200 compensation to Mr Z for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Zs credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman