DRN-4046227
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Lloyds Bank PLC after he was a victim of 
fraud. 
What happened
In December 2022 Mr C attempted to use a cash machine using his Lloyds bank card. But 
after putting the card into the cash machine Mr C was given a message that said it was out 
of order. Mr Cs card wasnt returned. 
Mr C has explained that someone who was lurking in the area appears to have been able to 
intercept his debit card. A cash withdrawal for £480 and a payment of £9,996.99 were made 
using the debit card. 
Mr C was able to speak with Lloyds and quickly reported the issues with his debit card. 
Lloyds investigated and refunded the payments that had been taken two days later. But Mr C 
didnt receive a response from Lloyds as promised and went on to visit his local branch. 
Mr C raised a complaint with Lloyds and it sent him a final response in early January 2023. 
Lloyds agreed that the service provided when Mr C called to report the issue and during its 
investigation shouldve been better and apologised, paying him a total of £287 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought the settlement 
Lloyds paid was a fair way to resolve Mr Cs case and didnt ask it to take further action. 
Mr C asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
It's clear Mr C took quick action to report his concerns to Lloyds when he was a victim of 
scammers. Whilst Mr C was still in the vicinity of the cash machine he called to report the 
issues he was experiencing. That meant Lloyds could quickly look into the issues raised and 
take action to resolve them. 
Lloyds started a fraud investigation and went on to refund the payments taken from Mr Cs 
account within 48 hours. Ive looked at Mr Cs account statements and cant see any 
evidence of a financial loss caused by the way Lloyds handled the investigation. Whilst I can 
see how concerned Mr C was, Im pleased the underlying issue was resolved without undue 
delay from Lloyds and without a loss. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Cs complaint. Mr Cs told us he feels a payment of 
around £500 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused would be fair in the 
circumstances. Whilst I dont seek to take away from Mr Cs experiences, I think its fair to 
say Lloyds did resolve the problem reasonably quickly. And that limited the overall impact 
here. Lloyds has agreed the service provided at times was poor with calls being transferred 
between departments or dropped and that a lack of empathy showed by agents at times. I 
agree Mr C shouldve been able to expect better service when calling about an issue of this 
nature and that its fair for Lloyds to offer compensation as a result. 
Lloyds paid Mr C £250 to take into account the service provided, £10 for parking costs and 
£27 for call costs. I know Mr C feels a higher payment would be fairer. But Ive considered 
everything hes told us about the impact of the issues raised along with how Lloyds dealt 
with his case. Having done so Im satisfied the settlement Lloyds has already paid is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve Mr Cs complaint. To put it another way, the settlement is 
very much in line with what I wouldve told Lloyds to pay had no offer been made. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but as Im satisfied Lloyds has already paid a settlement that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not increasing the award or telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman