DRN-4214926
The complaint
Miss E says Tesco Underwriting Limited provided poor service when she made a claim on 
her motor insurance policy after an accident.
What happened
Initially Miss E used the non-fault services of an accident management firm and got a hire 
car. The other driver then disputed liability for the accident, so Miss E made a claim on her 
policy on 15 October 2022. The car was already with her local garage (garage O) and it 
provided a quote for the repair work. But Tesco thought it was excessive. By mid-November 
it had sourced another quote, which was much lower. After some disagreement about the 
quotes, Miss E agreed to use on of Tescos approved repairers on 14 December 2022.
Tesco then struggled to find a garage to carry out the repair work. It instructed garage S on 
20 December 2022, but it took a long time after that to retrieve Miss Es car from garage O. 
Its storage bill had to be settled first, and there were complications with that. The issue was 
finally resolved on 19 January 2022  and Miss E got a courtesy car just a week earlier. 
Miss E complained to Tesco about its delays and about not having had a replacement car for 
so long. She also said she hadnt been contacted about what was happening with the claim, 
so shed had to make numerous calls to find out, and to chase for progress. Tesco offered 
her £220 for 22 days loss of use, as it accepted that she should have had a car from the 
date on which garage S was instructed. But Miss E wasnt happy with Tescos proposal.
After she contacted us, one of our investigators reviewed Miss Es complaint. She said 
Tesco should have paid her for loss of use from 14 December 2022, so it should pay a 
further £60. She also said it should pay Miss E £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Later, she said that sum should be increased to £150. Tesco accepted her 
view, but Miss E didnt. She said she was without her car for several months due to Tescos 
delays and that its poor contact with her had impacted on her mental health. She also said 
shed lost her long-standing relationship with garage O. 
The investigator pointed out that some of the issues Miss E had raised with us hadnt been 
raised with Tesco by her. She said it would have to be given the chance to review them first 
and informed Tesco of them on Miss Es behalf. She said wed be able to look at the issues 
after Tesco had done so - if Miss E wasnt satisfied with its response. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estimates and delay
When Miss E told Tesco she wanted to use her own repairer, an advisor told her that garage 
Os repair estimate would have to be authorised by Tesco. Had the estimate (submitted in 
mid-October 2022) been acceptable to Tesco, its likely the repairs would have begun in 
November 2022. But as Tesco thought the estimate of £6,700 was excessive, given the 
relatively small amount of damage to the car, I think it was entitled to seek another opinion, 
even if that meant a delay. The second repair estimate (which was around £3,700) was 
received in mod-November 2022. As it reinforced Tescos view that the first estimate was far 
too high, further discussion had to take place about how the repairs would be handled.  
Miss E was unhappy when told that Tesco didnt accept garage Os estimate, as shed used 
the garage for many years and had a good relationship with the owner. Tesco agreed to 
have another independent assessment carried out, but in the end that didnt happen. I can 
see that would have been frustrating for Miss E, and she feels strongly that is an issue on 
which she was deliberately misled by Tesco.
I think a clear explanation for the lack of another inspection may have reduced the amount of 
stress Miss E was facing at the time. The file notes show that Tescos agent tried to arrange 
a further inspection - but was unable to find a suitable assessor to do it. It seems Tesco and 
its agent continued  to liaise with garage O until mid-December 2022, in the hope that it 
would submit a revised estimate.  At that point Miss E agreed to use one of Tescos 
approved repairers. In my opinion, there was some delay during this period that may have 
been avoidable, but it wasnt excessive. And I think Tesco tried to move matters along for 
most of the time, but the availability of independent assessors was outside its control. 
Miss E has told us that the most infuriating aspect of the dispute about the estimates is that 
garage S ended up charging a similar sum for the repairs as was set out in garage Os 
estimate. So she thinks months were wasted for no good reason. Miss E wants us to 
address this issue now, but as she didnt raise it initially with Tesco, we cant look at it until 
Tesco has had a chance to investigate her allegation. 
Replacement car 
The hire car was taken back when liability was disputed in October 2022. As her car wasnt 
driveable, Miss E was without transport until 11 January 2023. Garage O didnt provide a car 
for her, and she had no entitlement to a courtesy car under the policy when using her own 
repairer. Miss E only agreed to use an approved repairer on 14 December 2022 because 
Tesco and garage O couldnt agree on repair costs and because it meant shed finally get a 
courtesy car. She didnt know there would be a further delay with that. Tesco later agreed 
that she should have been given a car on 20 December 2022, when garage S was 
instructed, in line with the policy. The file notes show that it tried to get a car for her at the 
time, but there was no availability, due to high demand, so that wasnt Tescos fault. But I 
think it was reasonable for it to agree later that it would pay Miss E for loss of use from 14 
December 2022, when she expected a garage to be instructed and a car to be provided.  
Delay in collecting Miss Es car
The file notes show that garage O didnt co-operate with Tesco and its agents about handing 
over Miss Es car, but the major reason for that seems to have been that Tescos agent tried 
to collect it before garage Os storage charges were paid. Theres a note that says once 
Tescos agent was authorised to pay the storage charges, garage O refused to say what 
they were. The issue was finally resolved on 19 January 2023, but the car wasnt collected 
or delivered until 2 February 2023. It isnt clear why not, but Tesco agreed to pay 
compensation to Miss E partly based on that.
I think if the storage charges had been paid promptly its likely that the car would have been 
released sooner and the repairs could have started earlier. From what Ive seen on the file, I think Tesco and its agents could have handled the situation better and treated it with more 
urgency. But I also think garage O contributed to the delay. As Miss E had a courtesy car for 
part of the time (and Tesco has agreed to pay her for loss of use for a month) I dont think 
the impact on her was as bad as it otherwise might have been. But I think the situation was 
still inconvenient and stressful for her.
Contact with Miss E  
I can see from the file that throughout the process Miss E made many calls to Tesco and its 
agents. The notes show that Tesco and its agents contacted Miss E quite often too, but on 
some occasions it seems she was left in the dark about what was happening and why. For 
example, she had to call Tesco a few times to try to find out where her car was, and she   
didnt get a satisfactory answer. On other occasions she was given inaccurate details - such 
as being given the wrong dates on which her car would be collected from garage O. Miss E 
says Tescos advisors also argued with her in error about a few issues, such as whether she 
had comprehensive cover on her policy (although I havent seen evidence of that on the file). 
Miss E feels strongly that she was lied to by Tesco and its agents. Having reviewed all the 
file notes, I dont think theres evidence that advisors deliberately misled her, although it may 
have felt that way to Miss E. I think the issues became complicated partly because several 
agents were involved, and many advisors dealt with Miss Es queries. I think there was a fair 
amount of confusion between them all. But that doesnt excuse the poor communication. 
Miss E has told us she was going through a particularly difficult time anyway, sadly suffering 
two bereavements whilst also coping with ongoing depression. I was very sorry to hear 
about Miss Es situation, and I can see that poor communication from Tesco would have 
caused her further distress, when that was the last thing she needed at the time.
In summary 
I think Tesco provided poor service to Miss E, particularly in terms of its poor contact with 
her and the avoidable delay it caused during the process. Theres no doubt that she faced 
inconvenience and upset as a result. But in my opinion, it would be reasonable for Tesco to 
pay Miss E £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience, plus £280 for loss of use, in 
order to resolve this complaint - as it has already agreed to do. 
I know Miss E believes more compensation is merited, but I think the level of the distress 
she feels is the result of all the issues that arose during the whole claims handling process. 
In this decision, I havent been able to consider the issues that have yet to be investigated by 
Tesco. I hope Miss E understands why my remit is limited. And she may be paid further 
compensation in due course, depending on the outcome of her new complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay 
Miss E £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I also require it to pay her £280 
for loss of use. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2023. 
Susan EwinsOmbudsman