DRN-4265842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled their 
claim after a pipe burst in their home. 
The buildings and contents insurance policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer mainly to Mr G throughout my decision. Reference to Admiral includes actions taken by 
its agents.
What happened
Mr G claimed under the buildings and contents insurance policy after a pipe burst in the loft 
of his home and caused extensive water damage. Admiral accepted the claim and appointed 
contractors to handle the works.
But Mr G was unhappy with Admirals handling of his claim for the following reasons:
failure to progress his claim
lack of communication
delays
time he spent on the phone chasing up action
the additional distress and inconvenience caused
Over the course of his claim, Mr G complained more than once to Admiral about its service 
failures. Admiral acknowledged that it hadnt handled the claim as well as it should have. In 
recognition of its shortfalls, Admiral paid £200 compensation and a further £25 to cover the 
cost of the phone calls.
However, Mr G wasn't satisfied because he didnt think the compensation adequately 
reflected the impact Admirals service shortfalls had on him and Mrs G. So he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Admirals compensation went far enough. In light of the 
avoidable inconvenience and distress evidenced, she upheld Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Our 
investigator recommended that Admiral pay a further £200 compensation.
Admiral accepted the proposal, but Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said the compensation 
didnt adequately reflect the hours theyd spent on calls, the stress caused, and the fact they 
were both policyholders, so they were both affected. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, but I wont be asking 
Admiral to pay any more than our investigator proposed. Ill explain why.
For clarity, the key issue of complaint is about the claim progression and how Admiral 
handled it. I wont be looking at the actual claim settlement, and the shortfalls Mr G 
complained about are not in dispute. Therefore, the outstanding matter is the level of 
compensation.
Ive looked at the timeline of events to identify where theres evidence of avoidable delays 
and inconvenience. 
Right at the start of the claim, there was a delay of five weeks because of poor 
communication between Admiral and its agents. I understand that wouldve been frustrating 
and inconvenient to Mr and Mrs G so early on in the claim process and after their home had 
suffered extensive damage. 
Mr G chased progress with Admiral for the stripping out and drying works. While these 
inevitably take time, Mr G shouldnt have needed to chase progress. The notes show that 
poor communication, again, between Admiral and its agents meant action hadnt been taken.
From submitting his carpet quotes to Admiral arranging its own quotes, Mr G experienced a 
further delay of around three months. Ive noted that part of the delay was because of some 
disagreement about the costs and Admiral sought a further quote. Thats not unreasonable 
and this type of issue often causes some delay during a claim. However, the evidence 
shows that for most of that time there was a lack of meaningful progress on this part of the 
claim. I accept this wouldve been a further frustration which could easily have been avoided.
Mr Gs call log shows that he spent more than nine hours on the phone to Admiral during the 
course of his claim. If Admiral had handled the claim as he could reasonably have expected, 
its unlikely he wouldve felt the need to make at least some of those calls. Ive taken into 
consideration the hours spent on the phone, but its not appropriate to apply an hourly rate. 
Instead, Ive considered the time in my overall assessment of the complaint.
There will inevitably be some delays during a claim where most of the house is affected. Id 
expect to see a reasonable amount of time for asbestos testing, drying, stripping, choosing 
and agreeing the costs for replacement flooring, carpets and kitchen, and arranging fitting. 
These delays are unavoidable so I cant fairly hold Admiral responsible for the inconvenience 
the event itself, rather than its claim handling, caused. The claim took around five months, 
which I dont think is unreasonable. 
However, as Ive said, there is evidence that Admiral and its agents caused some 
unnecessary and avoidable delays. Its those delays which Ive considered when deciding 
whether compensation is warranted.
Admiral paid £200 compensation plus £25 for call costs. Our investigator proposed a further 
£200 compensation. The compensation isnt for the full length of the claim because work 
was done during that time. It only addresses the avoidable delays and service shortfalls. I 
appreciate it may be difficult to identify how much inconvenience and delay the claim itself 
wouldve caused, but Im satisfied that a total of £425 for the delays and shortfalls evidenced 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Mr G has looked at compensation guidance and he doesnt think its enough for the 
impact on two policyholders. Admirals responsibility was to provide cover in line with the 
policy for the home. The compensation is to reflect its failure to provide a reasonable 
standard of service in respect of one claim under one policy. It would be unfair to ask 
Admiral to pay more for two policyholders.Overall, Im satisfied that Admiral acknowledged its shortfalls and the avoidable delays, but I 
dont think its compensation payment was sufficient in the circumstances. Our investigator 
proposed a further £200, and Im satisfied thats fair and in line with the type of award Id 
make for complaints of a similar nature.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:  
pay Mr and Mrs G a further £200 compensation by way of apology for the upset, 
frustration and inconvenience caused during its handling of their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman