DRN-3982135
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains TSB Bank plc did not handle an ISA transfer request properly. 
What happened
Mr M made arrangements to transfer his ISA to another bank, which Ill call H. When he 
hadnt heard anything about this transfer he chased it up with both banks. TSB told him H 
had made duplicated requests  so this is why the transfer hadnt gone ahead. 
Mr M made further enquiries chasing up both TSB and H. TSB wrote to Mr M on 11 June 
2021 to say there were no outstanding transfer requests at their end, so a new request could 
be put through and would likely be successful. He was also told at this point that an 
inactive marker that had been applied to his account had also been removed  in case this 
was causing a problem as well. 
Mr M made another request, but his ISA transfer still didnt go through, so he complained to 
TSB. TSB responded to say that the information Mr M had been given in the letter dated 11 
June 2021 had been incorrect  there was an outstanding transfer request, and they didnt 
know if the inactive marker had anything to do with the issues Mr M was having with his ISA 
 but it had been removed anyway. They apologised for this but said ultimately, the issues 
were caused by H making multiple transfer requests without cancelling the previous ones  
so they only partially upheld his complaint.
The transfer was eventually completed in October 2021. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Shortly after doing so, Mr M sadly died. His 
estate continued the complaint on his behalf. 
An Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. He recommended it should be upheld 
because, in summary, TSB had given Mr M the incorrect information in the letter of 11 June 
2021 and because H had provided evidence that they had been in contact with TSB even 
though TSB said theyd never received any contact from H about the transfer. Our 
Investigator thought TSB should pay Mr Ms estate £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
TSB didnt agree, they said they felt they hadnt done anything wrong. We sent emails to 
both sides after this, setting out my initial thoughts on the case and asking both sides to 
provide any further comments by 22 March 2023.  
As TSB didnt agree with the Investigators view and didnt reply to our later email by the 
deadline, Ill now go ahead and decide this case formally.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has said the reason the ISA transfers were rejected was because there were multiple 
attempts from H and theyve provided screenshots showing the initial two transfer requests 
made the same day, and the first wasnt abandoned. This transfer needed to be abandoned 
by H for the transfer to go through to TSB. So it doesnt look like TSB made a mistake in 
rejecting the transfer attempts. 
TSB say, and their records show, they received no contact from H about the ISA transfers. 
But, weve received information from H which says they sent emails to TSB about these 
issues on 15 April 2021, 23 April 2021, 30 April 2021 and 10 May 2021 although H no longer 
have a copy of these emails. H have also been able to provide copies of emails exchanged 
with TSB in September 2021. 
TSB has no record of the September 2021 emails either. H have also provided notes 
showing they contacted TSB by phone on 22 July 2021 during which they were told all ISA 
queries must be made by email - which TSB agrees was the correct information. Again, TSB 
has no record of this call. So, on balance, it seems more likely than not TSBs records arent 
correct and they did receive contact from H about the ISA transfers. So Im inclined to 
conclude TSB did not respond to Hs repeated contact in April and May 2021  which 
caused delays in getting to the bottom of the issue and resulted in Mr M having to chase 
TSB to find out what was happening. 
TSB accepted in their final response letter they had told Mr M the wrong information in their 
letter dated 11 June 2021. But I dont think theyve done enough to put things right. The 
wrong information being that there were no outstanding transfer requests, when there was 
an outstanding transfer request, and that the inactive indicator was the likely cause of the 
issue. This also resulted in Mr M having to chase the ISA transfer further. The incorrect 
information meant that further requests were made by H that were not going to be 
successful. If Mr M had been given the correct information at this point, it could have 
prevented further failed attempts at the transfer from H when they still hadnt abandoned the 
original one.
 
Considering TSB likely didnt respond to contact from H and gave Mr M the wrong 
information, I find they contributed to the delay in the ISA transfer and therefore caused 
Mr M to have to chase TSB and H more than he would otherwise have had to do. So I find 
TSB should pay Mr Ms estate £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint. 
To put things right, I require TSB Bank plc to pay the estate of Mr M £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman