DRN-3136496
The complaint
Mr A complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined his motor insurance 
claim as a result of an exclusion clause, which he says he was not made aware of. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, Mr A is unhappy that UKI declined his motor insurance claim 
due to a clause that excludes claims for theft if the car is unlocked and the keys are left 
within it. He says he was not made aware of this exclusion as the insurer did not send him 
the relevant policy documents to bring it to his attention. As a result, he does not think they 
can fairly rely on the exclusion. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that UKI had likely made Mr A 
aware of the exclusion when it initially sent the policy documentation to him in 2018, so he 
didnt think the claim had been declined unfairly. The investigator acknowledged that the 
service Mr A received from UKI had been poor, but he considered the £200 compensation 
offered to be fair and reasonable. Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
no to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions highlight the exclusion at the very beginning of the policy 
document: 
FAQs  Am I covered if I leave my car unlocked or the keys in the car?
We will not pay a claim if your car is:
Left unlocked;
Left with keys of key fobs in, on, or attached;
Left with the Engine running;
Left with a window or roof open.
The policy then further sets out what is not covered with regards to theft claims:
What is not covered
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys and/or other devices 
which unlock your car and/or enable your car to be started are left in or on your car 
which is unattended, or if your car has been left unattended and not properly locked 
(this includes any window, roof opening, removable roof panel or hood being left 
open or unlocked). 
I do not consider this term to be unclear or ambiguous. Mr A has admitted to leaving the 
keys in his unlocked and vehicle with the rear door open before it was stolen, as he says he 
was unloading and carrying items into his garden. Based on Mr As testimony, the main gate 
to the garden was closed behind him, so Im satisfied the vehicle was left unlocked and 
unattended (which ultimately led to it being stolen) such that it clearly falls within the policy 
exclusion. However, Ive also considered whether it is fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on 
the exclusion in these circumstances.
The mischief this term is seeking to prevent is the insurer being liable to cover the theft of a 
vehicle that could have otherwise been prevented, but for the policyholders negligence. It is 
reasonably foreseeable that if a key is left in or on an unlocked vehicle (as was the case 
here) that the car is more likely be stolen than if the key hadnt been left in it. And that is the 
risk that has unfortunately materialised here.
The so called keys on vehicle exclusion is a relatively common term in my experience, 
found in most motor insurance policies. But it is nonetheless a significant term that the 
policyholder should be made aware of, which means it should be highlighted by the insurer 
and brought to the policyholders attention at the point of sale.
Mr A says he never received any policy documentation, but UKI have explained that they 
originally sent the policy booklet to Mr A when he first purchased his motor insurance on 
2 January 2018. I appreciate that he may not recall receiving this, but UKI have provided 
evidence in the form of their system notes to show that a new business pack was sent, 
which theyve said wouldve included the policy booklet. Mr A also says he remembers 
receiving his policy schedule through the post when he took out the policy. So, on balance, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr A did receive the policy document as well, although I 
appreciate he may not remember doing so.
I understand that Mr A then didnt receive any further policy booklets upon each subsequent 
renewal. But UKI have said that this is because they only send the physical document upon 
the policys inception, and thereafter it is made available through their online portal. 
It isnt uncommon for insurers not to send paper documentation nowadays in an effort to 
reduce paper waste, and many now make their documentation available through their 
website or online portal. But in any event, the keys on vehicle exclusion is set out in the 
same way throughout all versions of the policy  including the one applicable to Mr As claim 
made in April 2021  and it hasnt changed. And given that there havent been any major 
changes to the policy, there wasnt any reason for the insurer to send out another physical 
policy document, as there was seemingly nothing new to bring to Mr As attention about his 
insurance coverage. 
UKI have highlighted the exclusion clause at the very beginning of the policy document. So, 
Im satisfied it was adequately highlighted within the policy documentation, and that Mr A 
ought reasonably to have known about it, given that he wouldve likely received the policy 
document when he first took out the policy in 2018, and wouldve had access to later 
versions online (which set out the same exclusion clause). Therefore, I dont consider it is 
unfair for UKI to decline the claim in reliance upon the exclusion. 
Mr A is also unhappy with the way his claim was handled, as he says UKI sent him the 
incorrect policy document on multiple occasions. I can see that he has had to spend quite a 
lot of time chasing this matter up with the insurer, and I appreciate it wouldve been 
frustrating to have been sent the incorrect document so many times after clearly requesting which version he wanted to see. However, UKI have apologised for their handling of the 
matter and have also offered £200 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I understand that Mr A does not consider this amount to be commensurate to the experience 
he has had. But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, the £200 compensation 
offered by UKI is proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. The power to 
make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience 
experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate reflection of the 
impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to award further 
compensation to Mr A, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions and poor 
service provided by UKI had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, 
which Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances. I appreciate the experience wouldve 
been frustrating for Mr A, but Im satisfied that £200 is fair compensation for the poor service 
he received, so I wont be making any further award. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear about the 
crime he has fallen victim to. But in the circumstances, I dont consider that UKI have 
declined his claim unfairly.
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited have made an offer to pay a total of £200.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
UKI should pay Mr A (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr A should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr A and UKI as to whether the £200 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman