DRN-4185092
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) isnt paying the correct amount 
of interest on their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a joint account with Santander, which they have held for a number of 
years. Earlier this year, they complained to Santander that the credit interest paid on the 
account was lower than the advertised rate. They requested reimbursement of the shortfall.
Santander said that the interest paid on the account was correct. It said that the advertised 
rate is an Annual Equivalent Rate (AER), which shows what the interest rate would be if 
Santander paid interest on an annual basis. It said that the rate is currently 2% AER or 
1.98% gross.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with Santanders response and asked this service to look at the 
complaint. They said they are receiving 1.98% currently but believe it should be 2%. They 
said they have always received less interest than the advertised rate. They said they should 
be receiving interest on the interest they earn, but this isnt happening because Santander 
only pays interest on balances up to £20,000. Mr and Mrs S have always maintained a 
balance in excess of £20,000.
Our Investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. But Mr and Mrs S didnt 
agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. They would like 
Santander to pay them £500 to cover the shortfall in interest which they say they should 
have earned, as well as the stress and expense this situation has caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S hold other accounts with Santander, in their sole names. But 
this complaint relates to the joint account only, so thats the only account Im looking at here.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss account say that the interest rate which 
currently applies to the account is 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross (variable).
The terms state:
 Youll earn interest on your entire balance up to £20,000.
We work out the interest on your daily balance and pay the interest every month. Well pay 
this interest into your current account on the same day each month. This is usually on the 
date you opened or transferred your account. We wont pay you any interest for any month 
where you dont meet the eligibility requirements.
Interest payments will be paid using the gross rate
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and shows what a customer could earn from an 
interest-paying account over the course of a year. Its different from the gross rate, which is 
the flat rate of interest thats actually paid. The AER is designed to make it easy to compare 
different interest-paying accounts. But it doesnt necessarily reflect the actual amount of 
interest a customer will receive, as that depends on a number of factors. These include how 
often interest is paid and whether the monthly interest is left in the account. Where interest is 
paid monthly the gross rate is typically less than the AER.
Mr and Mrs Ss account pays interest monthly. The terms and conditions say that interest will 
be paid using the gross rate (currently 1.98%). Im satisfied that it is.
Santander only pays interest on the account balance up to £20,000. Mr and Mrs S always 
maintain a balance in excess of £20,000 and they say the monthly interest they receive adds 
to this excess. Mr and Mrs S say that, because of this, they dont receive interest on the 
interest they earn. I find that to be the case. But I dont think Santander has done anything 
wrong in this respect. 
Its clear from the terms and conditions of the account that Santander will only pay interest 
on balances up to £20,000 and Mr and Mrs S accept this. As their account balance exceeds 
£20,000, the money above this level (including the interest paid) earns no interest. The 
terms say that Mr and Mrs S will earn interest on their entire balance up to £20,000. So, if 
the balance below £20,000 included previous interest payments, Santander would pay 
interest on those. The fact that the interest payments add to the balance above £20,000 
means they dont attract interest. Thats in line with the terms and conditions. So, I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong by not paying interest on the interest here.
But Mr and Mrs S say that Santander is in breach of its own definition of AER. The AER is 
advertised as 2%. But Mr and Mrs S say that, because interest is not being paid on interest, 
the AER is 1.98% which is the amount they are receiving. An AER accounts for any interest 
earned on interest. A gross rate doesnt. An AER assumes that the monthly interest 
payments are left in the account and, in turn, attract interest. Thats not happening here 
because the amount on which interest is calculated isnt increasing each month (because of 
the cap of £20,000). So, the amount Mr and Mrs S are actually receiving is 1.98%, which is 
the gross amount. 
In effect, Mr and Mrs S are not achieving 2%. But the AER is an indicative rate for 
comparison purposes. It doesnt guarantee a particular return. I think the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss account are clear that Santander will pay interest of 2% AER / 
1.98% gross by way of monthly payments at the gross rate, on balances up to a maximum of 
£20,000. I find that Santander has done that here. So, Im satisfied that it is paying interest 
correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss account. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but Im not going to ask Santander to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman