DRN-2342800
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt provide full cover for their 
mortgage liability. Cover is now in place, but Mr and Mrs G are concerned about the 
implications this couldve had if theyd needed to make a claim. Mr and Mrs G want 
compensation from Nationwide to reflect the potential impact of its mistake, and for the time 
it took to consider their complaint.  
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs G took out a third mortgage which increased their total borrowing. They 
already had cover in place for the other two mortgages. And so, took out a top up policy to 
cover the extra borrowing. In 2019 Mr and Mrs G found out that the policy for the first two 
mortgages had been cancelled meaning they didnt have enough cover in place. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to Nationwide. Nationwide said whilst it was Mr and Mrs Gs 
responsibility to check everything was in order, it accepted it couldve done more to make 
sure Mr and Mrs G had the right cover in place. Nationwide arranged for a review of 
Mr and Mrs Gs cover and agreed to reimburse any additional costs that might be incurred. It 
also offered the couple £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with this response, so they brought their complaint to our 
service. They said whilst full cover was put in place in October 2019, Nationwide had told 
them back in 2018 theyd be covered for all three mortgages. And Mr and Mrs G were 
worried about the implications there couldve been if theyd needed to make a claim. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Nationwide had put 
Mr and Mrs G back in the position they shouldve been in. And because they hadnt had to 
make a claim when cover wasnt in place, he didnt think Nationwide needed to take any 
more action. Our investigator thought the £150 offered was fair and reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint.  
They said they only knew about the cancelled policy because they contacted Nationwide 
about another matter. And so, they were concerned the mistake couldve gone undetected 
for much longer. They also felt Nationwide took too long to consider their complaint and 
missed several deadlines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs G feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Nationwide made a mistake which meant Mr and Mrs G were without 
full mortgage protection for over a year. Im pleased that cover is now in place on the terms 
agreed back in 2018. 
Mr and Mrs G are understandably concerned about the impact of not having cover in place if 
theyd needed to make a claim. And I can fully appreciate their point that the problem was 
only noticed because theyd contacted Nationwide about another matter  and so they 
couldve been left without cover for even longer. 
When I look at complaints like this, I must consider what went wrong and what the impact of 
that was. I totally understand the concerns Mr and Mrs G have, but they didnt have to make 
a claim and the problem with the cover was identified  albeit as a result of their contact with 
Nationwide. Whilst there were potential problems that couldve arisen  Im satisfied that the 
impact on Mr and Mrs G only extended to the trouble and upset they were put to in 
discovering the oversight and having to rectify the matter. 
Nationwide apologised to Mr and Mrs G and acted to make sure an appropriate level of 
cover was in place, as well as offering them £150 for the trouble and upset caused.  Taking 
everything into account, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome and in line with what Id 
expect to see in similar cases. And so, I wont be asking Nationwide to take any more action 
or pay more compensation.
Mr and Mrs G were also concerned Nationwide took too long to consider their complaint and 
missed various deadlines. I can see this was unfortunately the case, and this mustve been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs G  particularly given the severity of the issue. But Nationwide did 
issue their final response within the time Id expect a business to respond. And it did 
apologise for the time it had taken. So, whilst I understand this wasnt the best customer 
service, I think Nationwides apology is enough here. 
Im sorry Ive not been able to reach the outcome Mr and Mrs G hoped for. I dont 
underestimate the significance of what couldve happened as a result of Nationwides 
oversight. But given the circumstances, I think Nationwide has done enough to put things 
right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman