DRN-2913762
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mobile Money Limited (MML) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr C took out three logbook loans with MML, the information on MMLs final response shows 
that the loan details are as follows:
Loan 
numberStart date Amount (£) Term Repayment 
(£)
1 13/04/2011 700 18 months -
2 29/10/2012 500 12 months 104.17
3 03/07/2013 586.64 12 months 121.78
4 25/02/2014 475.97 6 months 141.45
When Mr C complained to MML, it said his complaint about loans 1 and 2 had been made 
too late and it didnt uphold his complaint about loans 3 and 4. Mr C referred his complaint to 
this service.
The adjudicator thought that Mr C had made his complaint about loans 1 and 2 in time. An 
ombudsman also decided that Mr C had complained in time about those loans. So, our 
adjudicator looked at whether MML had done anything wrong by lending to Mr C and thought 
MML wasnt wrong to lend. 
Mr C disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me for a decision on the lending.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MML needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MML should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MML was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ive thought about all this when deciding Mr Cs complaint. 
MML has been unable to provide information about loan 1. I havent any information about 
the checks MML did before lending to loan and so I cant fairly say that it did something 
wrong when it decided to lend loan 1.
Before lending any of the other loans MML has provided evidence to show that it verified 
Mr Cs income with his payslips. It also requested Mr Cs bank statement before lending loan 
4. MML asked Mr C about his expenses and for each of the loans, it added a 10% buffer and 
based on those checks, the loan repayments were affordable for Mr C.
Looking at the term and amounts of the loans, I think MMLs checks went far enough, the 
repayments on loans 1 to 3 were small compared to Mr Cs income and there was nothing 
within the checks that I think should have been concerning for MML.
I appreciate that Mr C has said he was borrowing from other lenders and he has had 
complaints about other lenders upheld. However, I need to consider what MML knew or 
ought to have known at the time and while it may have found that Mr C couldnt afford the 
loan had it carried out a credit search, but MML wasnt required to carry out a credit search 
and I think the overall circumstances of the lending decisions made the checks it carried out 
reasonable and proportionate and based on those checks, I dont think it was wrong to lend.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman