DRN-3841884
The complaint
Mr d complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wouldnt allow him to transfer his 
pension plan, and that it invested it in a with profits fund without his authority. 
What happened
Mr d had a Section 32 personal pension plan with Aviva that included a guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP).
The retirement date on the pension was in 2019. In 2018, 6 months ahead of the retirement 
date, Aviva wrote to Mr d with details of his pension and his options. It explained that his 
Section 32 pension had a GMP.
Mr d told Aviva that he wanted to transfer his personal pension to a different provider. But 
Aviva informed him that the GMP on his pension had to be paid, and explained that his fund 
wasnt large enough to purchase that GMP on the open market. Which, Aviva said, meant 
Mr d wasnt able to transfer his policy.
Mr d complained to Aviva in June 2021 about the fact that he couldnt transfer his policy. He 
thought that there had been a stage in January 2021 when his pension fund was large 
enough to cover the cost of providing the GMP, and he should have been informed that he 
could transfer at that point. He was unhappy that his pension had been re-invested in with-
profits and his pension age extended a further ten years.
Aviva didnt uphold his complaint. It provided an explanation why Mr d had been unable to 
transfer his pension. And it explained why his fund had been re-invested in with-profits, 
explaining that Mr d could still take his pension at any stage and didnt have to wait until age 
75.
Mr d wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think that Aviva treated Mr d 
unfairly by explaining why it couldnt transfer the pension, or the way it treated the with-
profits fund. But he thought that Aviva ought to pay Mr d £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by failing, at times, to respond promptly to requests for pension 
valuations. And suggested that Aviva send a new pension valuation. If not sent within a 
month he suggested that should be increased to £400 for the additional inconvenience.
Aviva agreed to the compensation if Mr d accepted the resolution. Mr d didnt accept, so the 
matter has been referred for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr d that Ive seen and considered everything that hes submitted over 
the course of this case. I dont underestimate the time that hes given to arguing his case. So 
I can see how invested he is in this issue. I should explain that our role is to bring complaints 
to a resolution in a fair and impartial way. To do this I need to consider what is at the heart of 
the complaint, so I hope Mr d understands that I havent addressed all the points that hes 
raised in the time his case has been with us. I know he will be disappointed but I agree with 
our investigator for similar reasons that hes already been given. I hope he understands my 
reasons that follow.
I think that Mr ds original complaint had two main elements. The first of these I would 
summarise as being that he was told he couldnt transfer his pension with Aviva. Mr d was 
informed that the pension he held was a Section 32 pension. Which was a type of pension 
that was intended to accept transfers from occupational pension schemes. A feature of this 
pension was that it had to provide a GMP. This was a valuable protection. It meant that the 
pension was guaranteed to provide an annuity of a certain value. Even if the fund didnt grow 
to a sufficient size to be able to ordinarily buy that annuity.
Aviva have explained thats what happened here. Aviva explained to Mr d that he couldnt 
transfer his pension until the fund was large enough to cover the cost of the GMP. Any 
receiving pension scheme would have to guarantee to provide the same GMP that was 
attached to that pension. So it was reasonable for Aviva to explain that. It was unlikely that 
any other pension provider would undertake to provide a GMP in exchange for a transfer 
that was not large enough to buy it.
This meant that, unless the fund value exceeded the cost of the GMP, then Mr ds options 
were limited to taking his GMP. I understand Mr ds frustration that he doesnt know whether 
or not that point was reached. The fund value varied on a daily basis. But so did the cost of 
providing the GMP. And the cost of the GMP was not a straightforward thing for Mr d or 
Aviva to be able to see on a daily basis. It required an actuarial calculation based on a 
number of factors. It wasnt something that I think it would be fair to expect Aviva to calculate 
every day to then compare. And even if a point was reached where the fund was large 
enough, there was no guarantee that would still be the case at the point the transfer could go 
ahead. 
On the times that Mr d asked, Aviva confirmed that his fund wasnt large enough to purchase 
his valuable GMP. Which I think was fair. So, as explained by our investigator, Aviva did 
nothing wrong in letting Mr d know that he couldnt transfer his pension. Had it not, Mr d may 
have gone to the expense of obtaining independent financial advice, only to be told at that 
stage that he couldnt transfer his pension. Which I dont think would have been fair.
In his original complaint to us, Mr d also raised the issue of Aviva re-investing his pension in 
a with-profits fund for ten years. Ive looked at what happened and I dont think that is what 
Aviva did. 
Mr ds pension was a with-profits section 32 pension. It was always invested in a with profits 
fund. And was the only investment option linked to the pension. It was only moved from the 
with profits fund at Mr ds normal retirement age in order to provide his benefits. That was 
explained in his correspondence in a way that I think was clear.
As Mr d didnt respond to the retirement pack that Aviva sent him, Aviva had to make a 
decision what to do. Aviva wrote to Mr d to explain that it would change his retirement age 
on his policy to 75, and re-invested his pension into the with profits fund it had been in. It 
wasnt a fixed term investment. Mr d always had the option of taking his pension at any 
stage from that point. And I dont think Avivas correspondence suggested otherwise. 
Leaving his pension disinvested would have denied Mr d investment returns on his fund. It 
wouldnt have been in his best interests. The original pension he purchased was a with 
profits pension. So I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in the way it treated this.Ive looked at the log of contact that Aviva had from Mr d. He was in contact with them quite 
regularly and Ive seen no suggestion that he asked Aviva to provide him with his pension, in 
the limited way that was available to him. The correspondence he was sent included 
information about how he could obtain financial advice. As well as giving the details of the 
financial adviser already linked to his pension plan. It wasnt Avivas role to provide Mr d with 
advice about the most suitable way for him to take his pension. But it did need to provide 
information about his options. Which I think that it did.
Whilst not forming part of Mr ds original issues brought to us, our investigator identified that 
Aviva had, at times, failed to provide Mr d with the information he requested in a timely 
fashion. Ive seen from the log of contact that Mr d contacted Aviva a number of times 
chasing up his pension quotes.
This is a service failure that caused frustration for Mr d. I dont think that it caused a delay in 
Mr d taking his pension. Mr d has shown no intention so far of wanting to take the pension in 
the form of the GMP. Which was an option that I think was always clearly available to him. 
He had the claim form for this in 2019 and a number of times subsequently. I think that its 
more likely than not that he was holding out for something that he wasnt able to do.
For the above reasons, I think that Aviva should pay Mr d £300 in compensation for the 
inconvenience that he was caused by having to chase up requests that hed made. I 
acknowledge that Mr d has spent time explaining the personal difficulties that hes 
experienced since 2019. Im sorry that has been a difficult period for him. But I cant attribute 
the distress of those issues with the failure that I think Aviva are responsible for.
I can see that our investigator included a condition that suggested that Aviva should provide 
an up to date pension valuation within a month, although Mr d didnt accept the investigators 
view. None the less, Ive asked Aviva to provide an up to date valuation which it tells us it 
has now done. So I dont think that its necessary to now include that condition.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I partially uphold Mr ds complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
must pay Mr d £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr d to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman