DRN-2779534
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt able to uphold this complaint. 
In summary, I concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mr C had been told 
that he would receive the insurance policies free of charge. I explained that the documents 
signed by Mr C at the point of supply included a Payment for Additional Services form which 
set out the cost of the insurance policies and how these would be paid for. I explained that 
the form showed the total funds available and the cost of the policies, as well as the balance 
of the deposit remaining after the policies had been paid for. I made the point that I would 
have expected Mr C to have read the documents provided to him before signing the 
agreement and said that I thought that if he had done so, he would have seen that he was 
paying for the insurance policies out of the funds he had provided as a deposit. I concluded 
that there wasnt enough evidence to show that the agreement had been mis-sold.
Mr C replied and said he didnt agree with the outcome. He said he had emails from the alloy 
protection company saying they were unable to carry out repair work to the alloys because 
the alloys had been so poorly repaired before. He said he wanted to be reimbursed for the 
cost of the alloy protection insurance policy.
BMWFS didnt respond to my provisional decision.
The case has now been returned to me to review once more.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. Having done so, and having reviewed all of the 
evidence again, I still dont think theres enough evidence to show that the agreement was 
mis-sold. 
I understand that Mr C is particularly unhappy that the alloy wheel insurance policy didnt 
cover the repairs to the alloys wheels when he tried to use it. He says he was told that 
repairs couldnt be carried out because of poor repairs carried out prior to the point of supply. 
Ive looked at the information hes provided but I still dont think the alloy wheel insurance 
policy was mis-sold. Theres no evidence that BMWFS was aware of the previous repairs to 
the alloys at the point of supply.
   
My final decision
For the reasons explained in this final decision and in my provisional decision , Im unable to 
uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman