DRN-3934828
The complaint
Miss P complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs, who Ill call HSBC, handling of a 
chargeback claim she raised with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss P, but I dont think HSBC have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by HSBC, its administered by Visa and they set 
the rules. HSBC didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for 
them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
When Miss P referred her complaint to this service HSBC had raised a chargeback on her 
behalf, but it had been defended by the merchant who explained theyd delivered the 
package and the claim had therefore been rejected by the scheme administrators.
But since the complaint has been referred to us I can see that the merchant have refunded 
£5.00, and HSBC have agreed to refund the rest of the transaction.
Taking all that into account I think HSBC have done enough to put things right for Miss P 
and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman