DRN-1296036
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. 
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and HSBC UK Bank plc is now 
responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to HSBC throughout this 
decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs P its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs P genuinely and honestly 
feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. Their main point of complaint seems to be that they feel 
the MPPI wasnt necessary and that when they met with the adviser, they werent told it was 
optional or provided with the right information.
Nevertheless, the sale of the MPPI looks like it was in 1996 so these events are from 24 
years ago. Its therefore obviously possible, and indeed understandable, that Mr and Mrs P 
might not remember everything that took place. 
Mr and Mrs P havent been able to send us any records about their policy and HSBC hasnt 
got any of the sale documentation left. Given the length of time involved this isnt unusual. 
But HSBC does have some computerised records Ive been able to see.
I can really only determine what is more likely to have happened because weve got so little 
to go on in this case. My general experience of these types of HSBC sale is that consumers 
were usually required to sign a specific form to agree to the MPPI being added to their 
mortgage. I cant confirm for sure that this is what happened here, but I do also note that Mr 
and Mrs P reviewed and increased the MPPI cover in 1998. The cost went up from £11 per 
month to £14. So they would have had to review and agree to the cover again at that point.
I also note that only Mr P was covered on the policy. From that, I think its much more likely 
that their financial situation was probably discussed during the sale process and they chose 
to have Mr P covered because it suited their particular needs. I find it quite unlikely that a 
policy would be portrayed as compulsory and then for only Mr P to be required to have the 
cover, on a joint mortgage.In short, we have no signed paperwork left and very little information. But the circumstances 
of the sale do appear to suggest the MPPI was added because Mr and Mrs P wanted it at 
the time and they did so again two years later. I accept they may not recall any of this now, 
but I think its much more likely they agreed to the MPPI cover. 
HSBC cant say if it recommended the MPPI as part of an advised sale. But if it did, this 
means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was. 
I say this because Mr P appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for them. Mr P implied he didnt need the cover because he also had 
sickness protection with his job. Ive thought very carefully about this but it doesnt make the 
MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences 
of them not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the event of a 
successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months. This would have been in 
addition to any other means they had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy for Mr P, I dont think it being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration.
HSBC also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm whether it did everything right, but having discussed the cover I 
think Mr and Mrs P would have been given the supporting literature explaining the policy 
rules. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I think there is enough evidence they probably 
engaged in discussions about this sale and would have gone through a number of steps to 
get the policy. I dont find anything that supports their complaint that the policy was mis-sold 
to them.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. And I dont direct HSBC UK Bank plc to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman