DRN-2160506
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt 
make from his bank account.
What happened
Mr C says he was in prison from early August 2018 to December 2019. He says he had his 
bank card in secure store in prison. And that he used it once while there on 10 August 2018 
to pay £40 into his prison account. He didnt give the card or PIN to anyone and disputes 
other payments including cash withdrawals made using his card coming to a total of 
£359.65. He cancelled his card when he left prison.
NatWest said that it wouldnt be refunding the payments. All of them were made with the 
genuine card and PIN. The card used was ordered on 27 July 2018 and the PIN hadnt 
changed. It didnt see how or why a fraudster would have made the payment to Mr Cs 
prison account. So, it considered that either Mr C made all the payments, or he allowed 
someone else to do so.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out the timing for the 
payments and showed that the card was used at 11:09 on 10 August 2018 to withdraw 
money at a cash machine. This was before the payment to Mr Cs prison account made at 
16:02 that day. And the card was used next in a cash machine at 16:48 to check the balance 
and to make payments later that evening. There was no explanation for how an unknown 
third party could have made these payments especially as Mr C said that he hadnt told 
anyone his PIN. He thought it possible that a person Mr C had given his card to had made 
additional payments. But as Mr C would have provided the means to do so then he would 
still responsible for them.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt accept what had been said and which he said meant that he 
was being called a liar. He didnt give anyone permission to use his card ever. And he 
wanted an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr C authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use the card 
as NatWest says?
Ive seen the logs from NatWest both for the payment Mr C recognises of £40 and for the 
ones he disputes. Im satisfied that the disputed payments were authenticated when the chip 
on the same card ending 6168 was read and the correct PIN entered. Weve not seen any 
evidence that the chip on a bank card can be cloned for everyday use. And even if it 
somehow were to have been then as Ill come to that wouldnt explain how the PIN was 
discovered.
Mr C hasnt been able to show exactly when he entered prison. I can see though that there 
was no access to his account using mobile banking from 5 August 2018 to 27 December 
2019. And that he was released on that latter day. So, Ive no reason to doubt his 
explanation that he was in custody at the time the payments took place. Ive no knowledge 
also about whether as Mr C says it was possible to make a payment while in prison and to 
access his personal possessions again. But the evidence Ive seen indicates his card wasnt 
in the prison store. And that it wouldnt have likely been possible to make the payment with 
the card from within the prison based on the timing of the other use of the card that our 
investigator has referred to.
The card was clearly outside the prison on the morning of 10 August 2018 and then later that 
day. So frankly Mr Cs explanation that he somehow made the payment himself is difficult to 
accept. Even if someone in the prison had access to his card that wouldnt explain how the 
PIN was discovered. And the card would have needed to leave the prison with someone in 
the morning, be returned at the time Mr C wanted to access it and then be taken out again 
so it could be quickly used. I dont find that a plausible explanation.
I find no likely way as a result in which an unknown third party could have had access to the 
card and PIN in the way Mr C says must have happened. So that only leaves an explanation 
in which a person known to Mr C, and who he had given the PIN to was able to make these 
payments. As our investigator says it may be that this person carried out payments that Mr C 
didnt expect. But that person was in possession of the card and PIN with Mr Cs authority 
and so I agree hed be responsible for the withdrawals in those circumstances too.
I know Mr C will be dissatisfied by my conclusions here. But I dont find it most likely that 
these disputed payments were made in the way Mr C says. And all other likely explanations 
that I can identify result in me concluding Im afraid that he authorised them and so is fairly 
responsible for them. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman