DRN-4227609
The complaint
Miss V has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) irresponsibly lent to her when it 
provided her with a shopping account.
What happened
Miss V applied for a shopping account in December 2020. She was initially provided with a 
£125 credit facility.
 
In February 2021 Miss Vs credit limit was increased to £200 and then in May 2021 it was 
increased to £300.
Miss V says that Studio didnt do full checks before it lent to her. She says if it had, it would 
have known she couldnt afford the credit.
  
Miss V complained to Studio, but it didnt uphold her complaint, so Miss V brought er 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Vs complaint should be upheld. Miss V didnt agree with 
this outcome. She explained that her financial position was much worse than Studios 
records suggested.
 
As Miss V didnt agree with our investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Vs complaint.
Studio needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss V 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Miss Vs income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. There is no prescriptive 
list of checks a business must do. 
Studio provided evidence of the results of the checks it made when it first agreed Miss Vs 
account and when it agreed each increase. Based on these, our investigator concluded that 
Studio didnt act unreasonably in providing Miss V with the account and credit limit 
increases. Our investigator noted that the credit checks didnt show anything adverse and, in 
the case of the credit limit increases, her account history didnt show anything that ought to 
have prompted Studio to ask more questions. Our investigator noted that Miss V had no 
recent defaults or delinquencies in the preceding 12 months and that Miss V didnt have any 
County Court Judgements (CCJs). 
When our investigator provided their view Miss V disagreed with it. She said that it was 
factually incorrect to say that she had no CCJs because she actually had three. 
Miss V was invited to provide more information to support her case but did not do so.
When I came to review Miss Vs complaint I noted that, contrary to our investigators view, 
there was some evidence of account delinquency at the time of the account opening. I think 
that should have been enough to alert Studio to the potential Miss V may not have been able 
to manage any further credit. I think at this stage Studio ought to have done more to find out 
how Miss V was managing her finances.
I dont know what checks Studio might have chosen to do but I considered that Miss Vs 
bank statements and credit report from the period shortly before and during the life of the 
account may have provided a reasonable picture of her financial circumstances at the time. 
I asked Miss V to supply copies of her bank statements and a copy of her credit file, which 
Miss V had already said she had available.
Miss V declined to provide this information. She submitted that it was rude of this service to 
ask and as she did not legally have to do so, this service should believe her when she said 
she is in financial difficulty.
I do not doubt Miss Vs testimony that she is in current financial difficulties. But without 
evidence to allow me to understand what Studio ought to have seen had it completed further 
checks, I cant fairly say that it should have acted differently and not provided Miss V with the 
credit. 
So, while I am not satisfied that Studio conducted necessary and proportionate checks 
before it lent to Miss V, I do not know what it would have seen if it had completed necessary 
and proportionate checks. So, I cannot uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Vs complaint, so it follows that Studio Retail Limited doesnt have to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman