DRN-2614453
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R are unhappy with the settlement they received when they made a claim 
under their buildings insurance policy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds). 
Theyre also unhappy that elements of their claim werent covered. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs R and Mr R made a claim for an escape of water coming from their 
downstairs toilet. They submitted a quote to Lloyds for repairs totalling £4,152. 
Lloyds appointed their own approved repairer to validate the claim and Mrs R and Mr Rs 
quote. Lloyds told Mrs R and Mr R their approved repairer would carry out the work. 
But Mrs R and Mr R wanted their own builder to carry out the repairs. 
Lloyds approved repairers provided a quote for the full reinstatement works of £1,974.40 
including VAT. They also pointed out that Mrs R and Mr Rs quote included plumbing work 
that wasnt covered under the policy for £775. They said the quote included replacement of 
the architrave, but this was unnecessary as it had dried and could be painted. And the quote 
for the tiling was excessive in terms of both labour and materials. 
Because Mrs R and Mr R didnt want Lloyds approved repairers to carry out the work, Lloyds 
offered a cash settlement of £1,974.40. They also offered Mrs R and Mr R £25 
compensation for the misspelling of their name on a letter.
Mrs R and Mr R werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
reviewed their case and said Lloyds offer was fair. She said Mrs R and Mr Rs quote was 
provided before the property had dried so included replacement of things that had since 
dried and were repairable. 
She said Lloyds policy was clear about what it didnt cover, so it was fair and reasonable not 
to include the plumbing in the reinstatement quote. She also explained that if a customer 
decides they wanted their own contractor to carry out the work, theyll only be entitled to 
what it would cost Lloyds to do the work.
Mrs R and Mr R disagreed. They said they couldnt complete repairs to the pipe without 
getting to it which meant they had to remove the toilet, skirting and architraves. And they had 
to remove the radiator for redecoration purposes. They thought this should be covered under 
the policy. They also said Lloyds quote for decoration wasnt enough to carry out complete 
decoration so brings into question the quality of their tradesmen. 
Mrs R and Mr R didnt think the fact that Lloyds approved repairer were more competitive 
due to their size was relevant because their builders company isnt small and can offer 
competitive prices. 
They acknowledged that their plumber did spend half a day connecting the pipework, so they 
didnt expect the full amount to be reimbursed. They thought £1,000 - £1,500 would be a fair 
increase in the settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill address the issue of whether Lloyds cash settlement should be based on their 
own quote or Mrs R and Mr Rs quote. 
In these kinds of circumstances, its not unusual for insurers to carry out repairs themselves 
 using their own contractors - if at all possible. 
This isnt unfair because the point of the contract of insurance is to indemnify Mrs R and 
Mr R - which means Lloyds have to put Mrs R and Mr R back in the position they were in 
before the escape of water. As long as Lloyds are doing this, they can settle the claim as 
they wish. So, they must either arrange for their contractors to carry out the work or pay a 
cash settlement that will allow Mrs R and Mr R to get the work done. 
We usually say that when a customer insists on a cash settlement - and theres no evidence 
to suggest the repairs arranged by the insurer would be substandard - its fair for the 
business to pay what they wouldve paid their own contractors to complete the work. In 
essence, why should the business pay more than it would cost them to carry out the repairs 
if the use of a more expensive contractor is the choice of the customer?
On the other hand, if the business insists on the cash settlement, we dont think it would be 
fair to say they can pay the customer what they wouldve paid their own contractors to 
complete the work. They need to pay the full cost to the customer, so as not to disadvantage 
them and/or fail to properly indemnify them. 
So, the question of whats fair and reasonable in this kind of case most often ultimately 
comes down to which party requested  or insisted on - the cash settlement.
In this case, everyone agrees Mrs R and Mr R have requested the cash settlement. Lloyds 
contractors are able to carry out the repairs needed to put Mrs R and Mr R back in the 
position they were in before the claim. So, theyre able to effectively complete the repairs in 
line with the policy terms. But Mrs R and Mr R have decided theyd like to use their own 
contractors.
Asking Lloyds to pay Mrs R and Mr Rs contractors estimates would mean the repairs would 
cost Lloyds considerably more for the same repairs. And I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Lloyds to pay more as a cash settlement than it would cost their own contractor to carry out 
the repairs.
Moving on to the disputed works included in Mrs R and Mr Rs quote. Insurers are often able 
to make use of supplier discounts, which arent always available to consumers. This may go 
some way in explaining the difference in price between Lloyds contractors quote and Mrs R 
and Mr Rs contractors estimates.
I can see that Mrs R and Mr Rs quote contained £775 for plumbing work. Lloyds policy says 
they wont cover the:
Cost of repairing the domestic appliance or fixed domestic water installation itself
So, its reasonable that Lloyds declined to cover this part of the claim because it doesnt fall 
within the terms and conditions of the policy. I can see Lloyds contractors did include the removal of sanitaryware in their quote as well as 
the cost of the floor tiles. Whilst they wouldnt be repairing the leak itself, theyd repair the 
damage.
Lloyds quote only includes redecoration costs for things actually damaged by the leak. But 
looking at Mrs R and Mr Rs quote, I can see it includes redecoration costs for undamaged 
parts of the home.
 
Mrs R and Mr R say that Lloyds redecoration would be substandard and think it would be 
impossible to colour match the emulsion. They think that redecorating should come under 
the matching sets clause in their policy. 
Matching sets clauses come into play when undamaged items cant be matched. For 
example, they might be applied when one chair in a three-piece-suite is damaged and the 
set is no longer available.
But this cant be applied to decoration because its much easier to match a wallpaper or a 
paint. So, I dont agree that the matching sets clause should be applied in these particular 
circumstances or that Lloyds have acted unfairly in only covering the repair and redecoration 
for the parts of the property that were damaged. 
I also havent seen any evidence that repairs by Lloyds contractor would be substandard. 
Mrs R and Mr R are entitled to ask for a cash settlement and to have their own contractors 
carry out the work if they wish. But as Ive explained, in that case, theyre only entitled to the 
amount it wouldve cost Lloyds contractors to complete the work. 
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs R and Mr R 
in the cash settlement theyve offered for the repair work when settling the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman