DRN-3720770
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Magnet Insurance Services Ltd regarding claims it recorded 
against him and what he believes, its role was, in the underwriter for his home insurance 
policy avoiding his cover, thereby declining a claim.
What happened
Beginning in 2018 Mr C arranged his home insurance via Magnet. Hed had two claims 
before then, one in 2014 and one in 2016. He then had some further incidents and claims in 
the period 2018 to May 2020. And whilst the last claim in May 2020 was pending, the cover 
in place lapsed at renewal. 
Mr C arranged a new policy in August 2020; using a price comparison website he again 
arranged cover via Magnet. He declared two claims; one from 2016 and one from 2020. He 
made a claim on the new policy which the underwriter accepted. But, when he made a 
further claim, the underwriter found out about other claims and incidents in the years before 
the policy began which Mr C hadnt told it about. It avoided Mr Cs policy and, as a result, 
wouldnt deal with his new claim. Mr C complained as he was unhappy, and a little unclear 
about what role the different companies, including Magnet, had had in what had gone wrong. 
Our Investigators, considering Mr Cs complaint about Magnet, didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. So Mr Cs complaint wasnt upheld. He said he didnt understand how we 
could find this way, with the result being he is left out of pocket. He said Magnet knew about 
the claims, and had been happy to renew his cover in May  so it made no sense to say 
cover would not have been offered if the claims had been known about, which was the basis 
upon which the policy had been avoided. Mr Cs complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C, and Magnet, have been waiting a little while longer than usual for an 
Ombudsmans consideration of this complaint. So I know it will cause Mr C upset to learn, at 
this time, that Im not going to uphold his complaint. That is regrettable. However, having 
seen everything that happened here, I dont think Magnet failed Mr C. And I could only 
uphold the complaint if there was a failure by Magnet. Ill explain that below, including taking 
this opportunity to, hopefully, clear up some of the concerns Ive see Mr C raise during the 
course of his complaint.
Insurance can be daunting and confusing at times for policyholders. Here I think Mr C has 
been caused some confusion because of the number of companies involved in his cover, 
each of which had different roles and responsibilities for different things. And the policies 
Mr C had each year didnt renew either. At the end of each year the policy lapsed and Mr C 
then arranged new cover. Which meant that Magnet and the underwriting insurer treated 
Mr C as they would any new customer.  
That context is important when I think about the key concerns Ive noted from Mr C. His 
concerns can be summarised as follows (numbered for ease of reference only):
1) A claim was allowed on this policy, and it was only with the second claim that action to 
change the cover, by avoiding it, was undertaken. Thats unfair and disadvantaged him.
2) It isnt fair for Magnet to treat calls as claims and not tell him it had done so. He did not 
make claims, and did not know Magnet had recorded claims against him  so it was easy 
for him to get things wrong.
3) Renewal, with all the claims on it, was offered. So it is illogical to say cover wouldnt have 
been offered if hed disclosed everything.
4) And because Magnet had arranged his cover for so long, it knew about all the incidents 
and claims, so it should have corrected the detail he had provided, or let him know hed 
got it wrong. Plus its industry practice to check everything at the start of the policy.
1)  Magnets role here was to arrange cover and handle the administration of the policy. 
For example, if details needed updating. It would also send out renewal documents and 
the like. But it was the underwriting insurer that chose how to handle and whether or not 
to settle claims, and later made the decision to avoid the policy. I understand that a 
colleague of mine has issued a decision against the respondent underwriter, about the 
policy avoidance. So I cant comment on this further. Other than to say, Magnet, in its 
role, took no decision about settling claims or avoiding the policy. 
2)  I appreciate that Mr C feels he did not make claims because he didnt get any 
settlement from the insurer. Hes explained that he called to discuss incidents but didnt 
pursue them and believes that a claim has to involve a settlement being made. To assist 
Mr C in the future Id like to explain that a claim does not have to result in a settlement. If 
a policyholder advises of a loss and says they want to claim on the policy for it, or acts as 
though they want to  such as by filling in a claim form, then that means a claim is made. 
Whether that claim is then pursued, withdrawn, declined or otherwise does not progress, 
does not mean that a claim was not made. But the other important thing Mr C should 
know is that when arranging a policy and answering questions put to him  it is up to him 
to take care to give the correct answer. And that involves making sure the question asked 
is fully understood. I say that because most insurers will want to know about claims 
and/or losses. And Mr C would need to take care to give the right answer. So whilst he 
may not have been aware that claims, for the two incidents hed spoken to Magnet about 
had been recorded, he did know hed had losses  because he paid to repair the issues 
himself. I dont think Magnet failed Mr C in this respect  it had a duty to keep clear 
records and I think it simply recorded the losses it was told about. 
 
3)  Renewal was offered to Mr C in May 2020. That was a decision made by the 
underwriter, not Magnet, and was based on there having been three claims in the 
preceding years, one of which was an incident only with no claim settlement having been 
received. But that wasnt the full claim and loss history for Mr C which caused the 
underwriter to later say it wouldnt have offered cover if it had been told of all of that 
history. And this also brings me back to the point I made about renewing cover versus 
taking out a new policy. It may help Mr C to be aware that insurers will often have a 
different set of considerations for renewing policyholders from those they have for new 
customers. There are many reasons for this but it is not uncommon, for example, for an 
insurer, at renewal, to be prepared to offer cover for a policyholder with three claims in 
the last three years, whereas they might not want to take on a new customer with a 
similar history. Here, Magnet played no role in deciding whether to offer cover to Mr C as 
either a renewing policyholder or new customer. That, as I said, was the underwriters 
decision, with Magent facilitating the situation. Magnet, in my view, didnt fail Mr C in this 
respect. 4)  I can understand why Mr C might think insurers should check the details they are given 
at the start of a policy. And some do. But it isnt fair to say that is done as standard across 
the industry. In fact the relevant legislation that governs the sale and renewal of policies 
puts the onus on the policyholder to provide the correct detail, and, as a result, the insurer 
is entitled to expect that is what has been given. So many insurers, particularly when 
arranging or offering property insurance, do not check that the application details theyve 
been given are correct. As such, I cant fault Magnet for not having checked the details 
Mr C had given it. And nor do I think it should have acted in such a way that it could have 
cross referenced this cover with others provided over the previous years. I think with new 
cover that would have been difficult for it to do  and given the relevant legislation it 
simply wasnt necessary for it to do that. I understand that its been difficult for Mr C to 
manage his insurance needs over the last few years, to keep track of his cover and 
claims, and to know what detail to give when new policies have had to be arranged. But 
the legislation referenced above makes it clear that the responsibility for giving full and 
correct information lies with the prospective policyholder. With regret for the upset I know 
this will cause Mr C, I dont think Magnet acted unfairly here. 
I know Mr C has been left with a loss because his claim wasnt paid. And that the avoidance 
has also impacted his ability to get further cover at a reasonable price. I understand that this 
is hard for Mr C to accept, given hes explained that his health was suffering when he 
arranged cover and that he feels Magnets actions (in not being clear with him about claims, 
and not keeping track of his history for him) have lead to the more than difficult situation he 
is now facing. And I can assure Mr C that I have taken all of this into account when 
considering his complaint. But, having looked at everything and with regret for the 
disappointment and worry I know this will cause Mr C, I dont think Magnet failed him. I think 
Magnet handled the cover arrangements as it would for any new customer and during the 
course of each policy, administered it, as it reasonably should have done. As I explained at 
the outset, it is only if I find that an insurer has failed a policyholder that I can uphold a 
complaint against it. Which means that, here, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about Magnet. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Magnet Insurance 
Services Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman