DRN-1550677
 
The complaint
 
Mr R says MYJAR Limited, irresponsibly lent to him. Mr R says he couldnt afford the loans. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr R between January and 
March 2017. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 07/01/2017 20/03/2017 6    £275.00   £86.16
2 30/03/2017 Outstanding 6 £1,100.00 £339.02
 
Our adjudicator who reviewed the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. When taking 
into account Mr Rs financial circumstances the lending looked affordable for him.  
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicator. He didnt agree there should be less thorough checks at 
the beginning of a lending relationship.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. After doing so I dont think MYJAR was 
wrong to lend to Mr R. Ill explain why.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. On the 
application forms it asked Mr R about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,400 for loan one and £2,200 for loan two. MYJAR 
also checked Mr Rs normal monthly living costs including monthly creditor payments. 
MYJAR says it carried out fraud checks and used its own credit scoring system before 
agreeing to lent to Mr R. It says it cross-referenced and validated what it received from these 
sources together with the information Mr R provided. I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to 
have relied upon this information bearing in mind these were the first two loans that Mr R 
had taken with MYJAR, and his stated monthly commitments werent onerous. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt unreasonable of MYJAR to lend to him. 
Its possible that Mr Rs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the information MYJAR obtained as a result of its own checks. 
And Mr Rs financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as 
bank statements or more in-depth credit checks as examples  had been obtained. 
But as Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And MYJAR could only make a decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. In these circumstances  at the 
beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to verify the information provided. This could have included asking Mr R for evidence of his 
income and outgoings which MYJAR could have gathered from documents such as bank 
statement or copies of bills. 
I have considered the information MYJAR was provided with when it carried out its checks. 
And there isnt anything in the information it has given us that may have led MYJAR to 
conclude that it should decline Mr Rs applications for the borrowing. And there isnt anything 
to have given MYJAR cause for concern (at the proportionate level it considered them, 
bearing these were the first two loans Mr R applied for with MYJAR) or to have prompted it 
to ask for more information from Mr R.
In these circumstances, I think the assessments MYJAR carried out for these loans was 
proportionate. I dont think MYJAR was wrong to have provided these loans, based solely on 
the information it gathered from its checks and the information Mr R gave about his financial 
situation. I dont think MYJARs decision to lend to Mr R was unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman