DRN-3624609
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund money he lost when he 
fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
In the summer of 2020, Mr G was an unfortunate victim of a scam. Over a period of several 
weeks, he sent around £103,000 to the scammer. He made payments to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms, but his funds subsequently ended up in the scammers 
account.
Mr G reported the matter to Barclays in September 2020 and requested its assistance in 
recovering his funds. At the time, he also questioned why Barclays didnt query any of the 
transactions given they were out of character for him.
I issued a decision in July 2022 and explained that I couldnt consider Mr Gs concerns about 
Barclays failure to intervene at the time the disputed payments were made  hed referred 
his complaint to our service too late. But I could consider his concerns about Barclays 
handling of the chargeback request. 
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any final comments in relation to what said I 
could consider. 
Barclays didnt provide anything further in relation to the chargeback. But it told us it had 
decided to refund 50% of Mr Gs losses (along with interest) and had communicated this 
offer directly to Mr G. It said that he hadnt accepted the offer, but it remains available. 
Mr G said that he wanted a decision on the chargeback point but didnt provide anything 
further for me to consider. He also told us that he was exploring the possibility of raising a 
new complaint with Barclays in relation to its offer of 50% reimbursement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Mr G was dealing with a broker who scammed him. But he didnt make the disputed 
payments to the scammer; his account statements show these payments went to other 
merchants. This is important because Barclays was only able to raise a chargeback against 
the merchant he paid, not another party.
Its my understanding that the merchants Mr G made payments to are legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange firms. The service provided by the exchange would be to convert 
Mr Gs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchants Mr G made payments to did 
provide the service that had been requested. That the funds were later transferred 
elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the 
cryptocurrency exchange firms.
I understand Barclays raised a chargeback in any event, and it was successfully defended 
by the merchants. The outcome isnt surprising. The loss Mr G has complained about 
occurred when the cryptocurrency was transferred to the fraudulent broker. So, he couldnt 
claim that he didnt receive the goods or services paid for from his Barclays account; that 
being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr G. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But in the circumstances, I dont find that Barclays 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing the chargeback further and taking it to 
arbitration. Im satisfied there was no reasonable prospect of success of Mr G getting his 
money back through this avenue.  
Barclays has already offered to refund 50% of Mr Gs losses, along with 8% simple interest, 
to settle this complaint. Mr G should contact Barclays directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think 
Barclays Bank UK Plc needs to do anything to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman