DRN-1955911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. They booked a trip 
abroad from 17 October 2019 to 31 October 2019.  On 18 October 2019, Mr T slipped and 
had pain in his ankle. Mr T sought treatment from an overseas hospital. The hospital 
diagnosed Achilles tendinitis.     
Mrs T phoned UKI from the hospital where Mr T was receiving treatment. In the first 
notification of loss, Mrs T said that she wasnt confident in the treatment Mr T was receiving 
because the hospital hadnt carried out any scans or x-rays and Mr T couldnt take any 
weight on his ankle. UKI said that Mrs T should tell the treating doctor about her concerns. It 
also said that Mr and Mrs T shouldnt leave the hospital without a medical report, fitness to 
fly certificate and invoice. Mrs T asked about returning home early and making a claim. UKI 
told Mrs T that early repatriation would have to be medically necessary. 
Towards the end of the trip, UKI made arrangements for Mr and Mrs T to attend the hospital 
on 30 October 2019, in order to get a fitness to fly certificate and a medical report. When    
Mr and Mrs T arrived at the hospital, it wasnt expecting them. Mrs T phoned UKI from the 
hospital but the matter wasnt sorted out. They left the hospital without the fitness to fly 
certificate or medical report. 
Mr and Mrs T returned to the UK on their original flight on 31 October 2019. Mr T was 
subsequently diagnosed with a ruptured Achilles tendon.
Mr and Mrs T say that their biggest concern is the misdiagnosis of Mr Ts injury. They are 
also concerned that UKI didnt acknowledge Mrs Ts initial concern about the diagnosis.   
Mrs T says that if UKI had responded to her concerns and asked for a second opinion and a 
scan, Mr T could have received the correct diagnosis much earlier. She says that in those 
circumstances, Mr T would have been given a cast and crutches and told not to put weight 
on his ankle; had blood thinning injections before the long flight home in order to prevent 
clots; had a business class upgrade on his return flight so that he could keep his leg raised 
and early repatriation may have been agreed.  Mr and Mrs T say that UKI failed to follow up 
her concerns which meant that Mr T was in pain and stressed for the remaining two weeks 
of their trip. 
Mr and Mrs T want UKI to compensate them. They say that this matter has caused them 
immense stress and that Mr T suffered additional pain and discomfort. Mr and Mrs T say that 
their holiday was ruined. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, UKI upheld some service elements of the 
complaint and said that its agent didnt ask their medical advisors about Mrs Ts concerns in 
relation to Mr Ts diagnosis. It paid Mr and Mrs T compensation of £200 in relation to various 
elements of poor service. Mr and Mrs T werent happy with that response and pursued their 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that, whilst UKI wasnt 
responsible for the incorrect diagnosis, it hadnt handled Mrs Ts concerns about the 
diagnosis appropriately. She thought that the compensation payment should be a total of 
£750.
Neither UKI nor Mr and Mrs T agreed with the investigators view. Mrs T said, in summary:
UKI hasnt paid any compensation: their bank paid £200 as a goodwill gesture.
Compensation of £750 is inadequate, as Mr T flew home on a long-haul flight without 
blood thinning medication and without being able to elevate his foot.  
The investigator wrongly described the incident which led to the claim. 
Given that UKI knew about the level of medical care in the country they were in, it 
should have insisted on scans.
They would have been repatriated if they had received an accurate diagnosis, which 
would have meant 12 fewer days of pain and stress and Mr Ts recuperation would 
have started sooner. 
Mr T was in extreme pain and discomfort for the whole duration of their trip and it was 
stressful for Mrs T to see him in so much pain. 
UKI wasted a further day of their holiday when they arranged for them to attend the 
hospital for a fitness to fly certificate and medical report.
Compensation of £750 isnt sufficient for their stress, pain and anxiety caused by 
UKI.
UKI said:
Mrs T only raised her concern about misdiagnosis once, at the outset of the claim. If 
she had continuing concerns, its reasonable to expect her to have raised this again. 
Mr and Mrs T told UKI that they didnt require any further assistance. 
Mrs T could have asked the treating doctor directly about any concerns or obtained a 
second opinion elsewhere. 
The compensation it has already paid is appropriate as UKI isnt responsible for any 
misdiagnosis from the treating facility overseas.
The investigator responded to Mr and Mrs T and said that UKI wasnt responsible for the 
misdiagnosis Mr T received but that it should have done more about their concerns about 
the diagnosis. She said that whilst their bank handled the compensation payment of £200, 
the offer was from UKI. Mr T remained unhappy and said that adequate compensation is the 
cost of the holiday. He asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
Section D Emergency Medical and Related Costs
What is covered
We will cover you for the following expenses if you [] are injured [] while on a trip:
1. Emergency Medical Costs outside your home area
Emergency medical, surgical and hospital treatment (including ambulance and 
rescue service fees to take you to hospital) incurred outside your home area;
[]
2. Related Costs outside or inside your home area
Additional travel and accommodation expenses:
-to get you to or from hospital, where such expenses relate to your in-patient 
admission or discharge, or attending for outpatient treatment or appointments;
-needed to return you to your home area on the advice of our medical advisor;
-[]
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. UKI upheld some aspects of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and paid 
compensation of £200. I dont think thats sufficient here and Ill explain why:
The policy doesnt cover everything that might go wrong on a trip and, in particular,  
doesnt cover loss of enjoyment. Im looking at what UKI did wrong here and what 
effect that had on Mr and Mrs T.
Ive listened to the call when Mrs T first reported the claim to UKI. Mrs T said that she 
wasnt overly confident in the treatment Mr T was receiving because he hadnt had 
any scans or x-rays to confirm the diagnosis. UKI said that Mrs T should raise her 
concerns with the treating doctor. 
In its final response to Mrs T, UKI says that it didnt ask its medical advisors about 
Mrs Ts concerns and upheld the complaint in part. So, UKI accepts that it should 
have asked its medical advisors about Mrs Ts concerns.
UKI isnt responsible for the overseas treating doctors actions and cant tell a doctor 
what to do in terms of diagnosis or treatment, but it can ask for a second opinion. I 
think UKI lost the opportunity to do that, as it didnt pass Mrs Ts concerns to its 
medical advisors. I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr T to obtain a second 
opinion himself whilst in a foreign country.
Ive asked UKI what would have happened if Mr T had been diagnosed with a 
ruptured Achilles tendon. It says that, depending on the extent of the rupture, it would 
most likely have recommended that Mr T was fit to fly on his planned return flight but 
with a business class upgrade for leg elevation. UKI says that it would only have 
recommended curtailment if Mr T wasnt safely mobile and his pain wasnt controlled 
or if the treating hospital recommended surgery urgently.On balance, I think its more likely than not that if UKI had asked for a second 
opinion, Mr T would have received a correct diagnosis and been able to start 
effective treatment sooner. Also, Mr T would have had a business class upgrade on 
his planned return flight. That would have helped in terms of managing Mr Ts 
condition and meant a more comfortable flight home. 
I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ts holiday was curtailed or effectively curtailed. Mrs T 
says that they couldnt go on two trips they had planned and were confined to the 
hotel. But in the phone calls Ive listened to, Mrs T indicates that Mr Ts condition was 
an improving one. She indicated that the swelling had reduced and that whilst Mr T 
was still limping, he could put weight on the ankle. Theres no medical evidence to 
suggest that Mr Ts injury was such that Mr and Mrs T could get no benefit out of the 
trip. 
UKI upheld Mr and Mrs Ts concern about miscommunication in relation to them 
obtaining a fitness to fly certificate and medical report. Mr and Mrs T wasted a day of 
their holiday going to the hospital where matters were confused. They left the 
hospital without the necessary documentation. 
So, in summary, I think that UKI was at fault in not passing on Mrs Ts concerns to its 
medical advisors. If it had done so, its more likely than not that Mr T would have 
received a correct diagnosis sooner, begun effective treatment earlier and had an 
upgrade on his planned return flight. UKI also put Mr and Mrs T to the trouble of a 
second visit to the hospital which was fruitless, as it hadnt properly managed 
communications. 
UKI has already paid Mr and Mrs T £200 in relation to various matters but I dont 
think thats sufficient. I think its errors caused Mr and Mrs T distress and 
inconvenience in delaying an accurate diagnosis and treatment. Mr T also missed out 
on a more comfortable flight home. UKIs actions meant that Mr and Mrs T wasted 
time towards the end of their holiday in trying to get documentation and that could 
have been avoided. 
Putting things right
Considering everything, I think that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs T additional compensation of 
£550, bringing the total to £750. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, 
extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs errors in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but there are no grounds on which to direct UKI to pay 
them the cost of the holiday.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I now require                              
U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs T compensation of £550 in relation to distress and 
inconvenience in addition to the compensation it has already paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman