DRN-3593391
The complaint
Mr W complains about the options provided by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) to repay the arrears on his account. 
What happened
Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in September 2020 to acquire a 
used car. The agreement required Mr W to make 48 monthly payments of £388.25 followed 
by an optional final payment of £10,654.09. 
Mr W experienced some financial difficulty as a result of the coronavirus pandemic (covid-
19) and BMWFS provided a payment deferral for the period December 2020 to May 2021 to 
support him. 
In June 2021 BMWFS gave Mr W information about his new monthly payments of £424.26 
and told him these would restart at the end of June 2021. 
Mr W told BMWFS that hed struggle to pay the increased payments straight away, as hed 
just returned to work. An agreement was reached that Mr W would pay £100 at the end of 
June 2021, with the remainder of the June 2021 payment spread over the next six months. 
The £100 payment was successfully made by direct debit. 
In July 2021 BMWFS sent Mr W a notice of sums in arrears. The letter set out that if they 
had provided a payment deferral, they were required to send the notice by law, and provided 
Mr W was adhering to any arrangements, he didnt need to take any action and no negative 
information would be reported to Mr Ws credit file. 
In October 2021 BMWFS sent Mr W an agreement statement. The letter set out that it was 
for information only and Mr W didnt need to take any action in relation to it. 
In December 2021 BMWFS sent Mr W a notice of sums in arrears. The letter contained the 
same information as confirmed in the notice sent in July 2021. 
BMWFS discussed the agreement with Mr W in December 2021. No payment had been 
received since the £100 payment in July 2021. Mr W said he sends the funds to a separate 
account, so he hadnt realised that the payments werent being taken. He told BMWFS he 
could afford around £650 a month in total in order to repay the arrears. 
BMWFS asked Mr W to complete an open banking check so that they could ensure any 
repayment plan was affordable for him. They said theyd contact Mr B once the open 
banking had been completed. A direct debit was set up to resume Mr Ws normal monthly 
payments. 
Mr Ws open banking information was received on 20 December 2021. 
Mr W contacted BMWFS in March 2022 as hed received no response to his open banking 
submission. BMWFS asked Mr W to agree to a four-month payment plan at £611.39 a 
month on top of his normal monthly payment. 
Mr W said this wasnt affordable and offered to pay an additional £203.79 a month for 12 
months on top of his normal monthly payment. 
BMWFS rejected this and offered a six-month payment plan at £407.59 a month on top of Mr 
Ws normal monthly payment. Mr W complained about the options being provided. 
BMWFS sent Mr W their final response to his complaint in March 2022. They said the 
payments following the covid-19 payment deferral failed because of a system error. 
However, it was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure the payments were being made. They said 
they tried to contact Mr W in December 2021, but he didnt get back in touch with them. 
BMWFS said the open banking had showed that Mr W had affordability of £691.93, so the 
payment plan theyd offered at £611.39 was reasonable. Theyd also offered to reduce this 
to £407.59 which was also reasonable. They didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
like to repay the arrears over a reasonable timeframe, and not have them negatively impact 
his credit file. 
Our investigator gave her view that she wasnt persuaded that the payment plans offered by 
BMWFS were affordable. She said theyd accounted for transfers into Mr Ws account that 
werent clearly reliable income, and in any event the plan for £611.39 wouldve left Mr W with 
little to no disposable income, which wasnt reasonable when the arrears were caused by 
BMWFSs system error. 
Our investigator said the agreement runs until the end of 2024, so she thought it was 
reasonable for BMWFS to accept Mr Ws offer to repay the arrears over a 12-month period. 
In addition, our investigator said that BMWFS should remove any negative information from 
Mr Ws credit file about the arrears, because they hadnt contacted him about the missed 
payments, and the communications they had sent were unclear. She said that Mr W was 
responsible for making sure his payments were being made, so she didnt think BMWFS 
needed to pay him any compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
BMWFS didnt accept our investigators view. They said theyd need to do a further open 
banking assessment before being able to agree to a repayment plan as itd been some time 
since the last one was completed. They didnt agree to remove the information from Mr Ws 
credit file, as the arrears didnt relate to a covid-19 payment deferral and so had been 
correctly reported. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
BMWFS have accepted that Mr Ws payments werent collected by direct debit due to an 
error with their system. So, Ive thought about whether theyve done enough to put things 
right. 
Mr W has said that he can afford to pay around £650 a month in total to make his normal 
monthly payments and to repay the arrears. This would mean itd take around 12 months for 
Mr W to repay the arrears. 
BMWFS asked Mr W to pay £611.39 for four months, or £407.59 for six months, in addition 
to his normal monthly payments.  
Ive seen the review that BMWFS completed following Mr Ws open banking information. 
This showed that Mr W had a predicted monthly income of £1,744.22 and predicted monthly 
essential expenditure of £1,463.09. 
BMWFS have also taken into account a predicted monthly income from transfers of £410.80. 
Its not clear where these transfers were from, or whether they could be relied on as a 
consistent monthly income. So, Im not persuaded that these should be taken into account 
when assessing the affordability of a repayment plan. 
Without the transfers, Mr W has a disposable income of £281.13. So, Im not persuaded that 
either the four month or the six month plans that BMWFS offered to Mr W were fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr W offered to repay the arrears over a 12-month period, at an amount that he felt was 
affordable. Mr Ws agreement is due to end in late 2024, so there is time for the arrears to be 
paid within the original agreement term. On balance, I think Mr Ws offer was reasonable in 
the circumstances, and Im satisfied that BMWFS should allow him to repay the arrears over 
this time period. 
BMWFS have said theyll need to complete another open banking review to check that Mr W 
can afford any repayment plan. It has been some time since Mr W last completed a review, 
and I accept that his financial situation may have changed in the interim. So, I find its 
reasonable that BMWFS check that any plan is affordable, subject to allowing repayment of 
the arrears to occur over a 12-month period. 
BMWFS have said that Mr W is responsible for ensuring that his payments are made, they 
contacted him about the arrears during the period they were being accrued, and there is a 
negative effect on his credit file as a result of the arrears, so they should be repaid quickly. 
The two notices of sums in arrears that BMWFS sent to Mr W, during the period that 
payments werent being collected, both set out that if they had provided a payment deferral, 
they were required to send the notice by law, and provided Mr W was adhering to any 
arrangements, he didnt need to take any action and no negative information would be 
reported to Mr Ws credit file. The agreement statement set out that it was for information 
only and Mr W didnt need to take any action in relation to it. 
Mr W knew hed had a payment deferral as a result of covid-19, and believed hed entered 
into and was adhering to a payment arrangement. So, Im not persuaded that these letters 
went far enough to alert Mr W to the fact that he was missing payments. I dont dispute that Mr W was also responsible for ensuring that his payments were being 
made. But I think he was entitled to rely on the information provided by BMWFS, that his 
payments would be restarted, and they didnt contact him to let him know there was a 
problem. So, Im satisfied that it would be reasonable in the circumstances for BMWFS to 
remove any negative information from Mr Ws credit file in respect of these arrears. 
Ive thought about the impact BMWFSs error has had on Mr W. Hes said hes experienced 
a lot of anxiety and the situation has affected his mental health. 
Im sorry to hear of the impact on Mr W. Whilst BMWFS made an error in not collecting Mr 
Ws payments, he did have a responsibility to make sure that his payments were made and 
couldve mitigated his losses by checking his bank account sooner. So, Im not asking 
BMWFS to compensate for distress or inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
must: 
Allow Mr W to enter into a payment plan to repay the arrears over a 12-month period, 
BMWFS can complete checks to ensure that the plan is affordable for Mr W.  
Remove any adverse information relating to these arrears from Mr Ws credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman