DRN-2687442
The complaint
Mrs I and Mr L complain that Society of Lloyds declined part of their claim against their 
travel insurance policy following Mrs Is injury whilst on a trip. Certain underwriters at 
Lloyds are the underwriters of Mrs I and Mr Ls policy. Reference to Lloyds includes 
reference to its agents.
What happened
In June 2018, Mrs I and Mr L bought a single trip travel insurance policy and booked a trip 
with intended departure and return dates of 1 August 2018 and 30 August 2018 
respectively.
On 2 August 2018, Mrs I was injured after she fell over a step in the foyer of an unlit 
bathroom in a common area of the hotel in which she and Mr L were staying. She broke 
her wrist and bruised her leg and foot. Mrs I sought medical treatment. Her wrist was set in 
a cast and it was recommended that she have an injection every day for 31 days in order 
to prevent thrombosis.
Mrs I and Mr L returned to the UK on 23 August 2018 and subsequently made a claim 
against their policy. Lloyds reimbursed Mrs I and Mr L in relation to Mrs Is medical 
expenses and their return flight costs, less the excesses due under the policy. It didnt 
agree to pay the hotel costs. Lloyds said that the policy covers pre-paid, unused 
accommodation. It said that Mrs I and Mr L paid their accommodation costs during the trip 
and that they werent charged for additional days after their early departure.
Mrs I and Mr L say that Lloyds should pay their hotel costs as the accident happened the 
day after they arrived and they were confined to the hotel for the remaining period until 
they returned to the UK. They say that they were unable to enjoy their trip. Mrs I was 
unable to travel and had to have injections administered daily to prevent thrombosis 
following the immobilisation of her arm.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mrs I and Mr Ls trip 
was effectively curtailed from 2 August 2018, when Mrs I was injured. The investigator 
said that Lloyds should deal with the claim for curtailment.
Mrs I and Mr L accepted the investigators view, but Lloyds didnt. It said that whilst it 
sympathised with Mrs I who broke her wrist and suffered bruising, she wasnt hospitalised, 
which it said is one of the usual tests in considering effective curtailment. Lloyds said that 
Mrs I wasnt confined to her hotel room  she was able to get some fresh air and use the 
hotel restaurant, so she was able to use the hotel facilities. It said that  Mrs I and Mr L said 
that they were mainly limited to their hotel, which isnt the same as being confined to a 
hotel room.
Lloyds said that, in addition, the policy refers to accommodation arrangements paid for 
before Your Trip commenced. It said that Mrs I and Mr L didnt pay for their 
accommodation before the trip but paid during their stay.
Lloyds asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me.
Mrs I made a complaint about her legal expenses cover, which has been dealt with 
separately. So, I dont deal with that matter here.
My provisional decision
On 2 February 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in which I indicated that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
SECTION 2  CURTAILMENT
We will pay
Up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Cover & Limits for:
1. The value of that portion of Your travel and/or accommodation arrangements paid 
for before Your Trip commenced and which are unused [] if You have to Curtail 
Your Trip and return to Your Home earlier than planned due to:
a. The death, severe injury or serious illness of:
i.You or Your Travelling Companion;
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
[]
5. Your disinclination to travel or continue Your Trip or any loss of enjoyment on Your 
Trip
Curtailment is defined as Return early to Your Home after the commencement of the
Outward Journey.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Lloyds has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think that 
Lloyds acted fairly in declining Mrs I and Mr Ls claim for curtailment. Ill explain why.
Mrs I and Mr Ls policy covers pre-paid, unused accommodation costs in certain 
circumstances leading to curtailment of the trip. Mrs I and Mr L didnt have pre-paid, 
unused accommodation costs. They paid for their accommodation during the trip 
and werent charged for additional days after their early departure.
Mrs I and Mr L want Lloyds to reimburse them for their accommodation costs up to 
the date of their departure. They say that their holiday was ruined. So, the central 
issue for me to decide is whether their trip was effectively curtailed from
2 August 2018, when Mrs I was injured. On balance, I dont think it was for 
the following reasons.
Mrs I and Mr L planned a month-long trip based in one place but with visits to 
two islands and two nearby towns. They couldnt do any of the travelling they 
planned. Mrs I had a cast from her wrist to shoulder. She also had severe 
bruising and was in pain. They had to remain available for a daily injection 
administered at the hotel by a nurse, which continued until 22 August 2018.Mrs I and Mr L say that they didnt venture out of the hotel. They say they 
spent part of their day in their hotel room and went to the top of the hotel  
around the pool area - to sit and have some fresh air. As they couldnt eat 
out, they ate in the hotel restaurant and the manager gave them a discount. 
Their family came to visit them in the hotel.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that I can fairly say that                      
Mrs I and Mr Ls trip was effectively curtailed from 2 August 2018, when Mrs I 
was injured. Its clear from what Mrs I and Mr L say that they werent confined 
to their room, could use some of the hotel facilities and received visits from 
family members. Whilst this wasnt the trip Mrs I and Mr L planned, on 
balance, I dont think that their trip was effectively curtailed on 2 August 2018. 
So, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mrs I and Mr L unfairly in declining their 
claim for accommodation costs.
I appreciate how much Mrs Is injuries affected the trip, but the policy doesnt 
cover disinclination to continue the trip or Mrs I and Mr Ls loss of enjoyment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L responded to say that due to Mrs Is accident, they had no choice but to eat at the 
hotel. He said that was an extra, unnecessary expense, as they could have eaten at the 
homes of their family members. 
Lloyds said that it had no further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr L has said in response to my provisional decision, but it doesnt change 
the outcome here. On balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that Mrs I and Mr Ls 
trip was effectively curtailed from the time Mrs I was injured. In addition, Mrs I and Mr Ls 
policy doesnt cover them for the extra expense to which Mr L has referred.
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mrs I and Mr L unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mrs I and Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman