DRN-2918070
The complaint
Miss L complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) setting her credit card limit too 
high. She says that this led her into a cycle of overspending and having to borrow from other 
lenders to meet her repayments to Barclays. She wants Barclays to write-off some of her 
debt.  
 
What happened
Miss L applied for a Barclays credit card and was approved for a card in June 2016. 
Her limit was set at £5000. The card included promotional rates on balance transfers and 
purchases of 0% interest for 18 months and 6 months respectively. Cash withdrawals were 
charged interest at a rate of 24.85%.
Miss L began spending on the card and making cash withdrawals. Soon after opening the
card Miss L underwent surgery and began a period of recovery. Her ability to work her
previous hours reduced and she began to borrow more, and her balance increased.
Around September 2016 her balance stood at around £3200.
Barclays increased Miss Ls limit to £6000. Her spending increased and by November 2016
Miss L reached her credit limit.
In December 2016, Miss L exceeded her limit, which brought an end to her promotional 
rates. Interest began to be applied to her purchases balance at the standard rate of 19.95%.
In June 2017 Miss L contacted Barclays to inform them that she was struggling to make her
repayments. 
Barclays advised that she would need to complete income and expenditure information so 
that Barclays could consider her financial difficulties.
Income and expenditure information was completed in November 2017, and as a 
consequence, Barclays put her account on hold for 30 days.
Miss L then entered into an IVA agreement which included the Barclays credit card. Her 
account was transferred to a third party organisation to be administered as part of the IVA, in
January 2018.
In April 2020, Barclays carried out a review of some of its previous lending and contacted
Miss L. It advised that it may have previously set her credit limit too high. Barclays offered
£75 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Miss L was not happy with this and complained to Barclays. She felt that the lending had
been irresponsible and had led her into a debt spiral, borrowing from short term lenders in
order to meet her minimum repayments and then spending on the card to meet her
expenses. She felt that Barclays ought to write off part of her debt.
Barclays sent Miss L its final response to her complaint in June 2020. Barclays upheld her
complaint about offering her too high a limit and offered £75.00 compensation. Barclays
rejected her complaint that it had not dealt properly with her financial difficulties as it
considered that she had not made Barclays aware of these prior to June 2017.
Miss L was not happy with this response and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This
was that there was insufficient evidence that Barclays had set Miss Ls credit limit too high at
the time the limit was set. He therefore thought that Barclays had acted reasonably in its
offer of £75 compensation.
Miss L did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this matter in June 2021. In that provisional 
decision I set out that I considered that there was evidence that Barclays had set Miss Ls 
credit limit too high at the time of her approval for a card. 
I explained that Barclays had made an offer to refund all interest and charges which were 
applied to Miss Ls credit card over the lifetime of the card. I explained that our usual 
approach to unaffordable lending is to refund interest and charges, but to leave the capital 
debt to be repaid. This is because the borrower has had the benefit of the borrowing. 
In my provisional view I considered that Barclays had done something wrong, but that its 
offer to make amends was in line with decisions that we would make in similar 
circumstances. I therefore provisionally upheld the complaint, but considered that Barclays 
had made a reasonable offer of compensation, so made a provisional award in the terms of 
Barclays offer. 
That provisional view has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to provide 
any further evidence or comments.
Miss L has not provided any further comments. 
Barclays responded, explaining that there had been a misunderstanding in its offer, and that 
it had in fact only offered to refund the interest and charges applied to the balance above the 
limit that Miss L ought to have been set. 
I have subsequently corresponded further with Barclays and Barclays has decided to 
increase its offer to that which we initially understood. That is refunding all interest and fees 
which were applied to the card across the lifetime of the card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further arguments or evidence have been submitted by the parties in argument 
against my provisional decision, I remain of the view expressed in that decision. 
Consequently, I adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by this decision, as my final 
decision.  This is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint but consider that Barclays has made a 
reasonable offer of compensation. My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ls complaint 
and direct Barclays to do the following, in line with their offer:
To refund to Miss Ls account all interest and fees which were charged to her credit 
card over the lifetime of the account; and
To pay to Miss L £75 compensation for her distress and inconvenience (as offered in 
Barclays letter of 30 April 2020).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman