DRN-2814611
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how he has been treated by Barclays Bank UK PLC. He thinks 
Barclays needs to pay more compensation for the impact its errors have had on him. 
What happened
Mr N held a current account with Barclays, which opened in March 2016. Mr N says the 
account was a full current account, where he was entitled to request an overdraft. Barclays 
says the account was a Basic Bank Account, with no overdraft facility and no option to 
request one. 
Later in 2016, Mr N says he asked Barclays to put a stop on a payment out of his account, 
because it related to some goods hed received that werent as described. But instead of 
only the particular payment being blocked, everything on the account ended up being 
blocked. 
Mr N says he was unaware of this at the time and has described how this led to the account 
becoming overdrawn, because he thought he had more money in the account than was 
actually the case. He says this led to him waiting outside the bank for many hours trying to 
get access his money. 
Barclays closed the account and passed the debt to a debt collection agency. 
Mr N complained to Barclays about the debt having been passed to a debt collection 
agency, when he already had an arrangement in place with Barclays collection and 
recoveries department. 
Barclays upheld his complaint. It issued a final response letter in December 2016. It said, in 
summary, that: 
- It agreed the debt shouldnt have been passed to the debt collection agency. This 
had happened due to a technical error. 
- It recognised that Mr N suffered with poor mental health and due to this was a 
vulnerable customer.
- It apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused, wrote off the amount that 
had been owing on the account (£349.48) and paid an additional £300 in 
compensation. 
Barclays told Mr N that he had six months from the date of the letter to refer the matter to 
this Service. Mr N didnt do this. He says this is because he trusted that Barclays had done 
the best it could at that time and so he didnt think there was any need to ask us to look into 
things.
In 2020, it became apparent that Barclays had incorrectly left a default marker against the 
account. It referred back to what had happened in 2016 and said that it shouldnt have 
closed the account. It said that instead of a default marker, it should have been recorded as 
an arrangement. 
Barclays said that since noticing the error, it had removed the default. It offered Mr N an 
additional £1,000 as an apology for this error. It also said that if Mr N wanted a full current 
account, he would need to apply for this in the usual way.  
Mr N referred the matter to this Service, as he didnt think the amount of compensation 
offered was enough. He raised a number of issues:
- The contact from debt collectors had a very negative impact on him  making him 
feel suicidal and needing to seek help accordingly. 
- The stress of the situation had contributed to him experiencing serious health issues. 
- The default marker being on the account had prejudiced his ability to get a full current 
account with Barclays and credit with other mainstream providers. After his account 
had been closed in 2016 (which he now understood to have been in error), he had 
made numerous applications in branch, each time being declined. He said that the 
branch lay-out was such that other customers were aware of his being declined, 
which had caused a great deal of embarrassment and upset. Also, making the 
multiple applications will have had an impact on his credit file.
- He didnt think Barclays would grant him a full current account if applied for in the 
usual way, given his credit score. He therefore hadnt been put back in the position 
he had been in.
- The 2016 account being closed had caused Mr N to need to approach high cost 
lenders and to seek help from friends and family. If the account hadnt been closed in 
error, he would have been able to apply for an overdraft on the account and 
potentially obtain credit on more favourable terms than he ended up with.
- The £300 Barclays paid as compensation in 2016 wasnt compensation  it was his 
own money they were giving back to him.
- Looking at the guide on our web-site, his situation should fall into the severe 
category of compensation for the level of trouble and upset hed suffered.
An investigator here looked into things and issued his findings. He agreed Barclays had 
made some errors, but thought that the offer of compensation was sufficient. In summary, he 
said that:
- While the default will have had some impact on Mr Ns credit file, it wasnt the only 
negative entry. So he couldnt say this was the only factor that led Mr N to approach 
high cost credit lenders. 
- There was a lack of evidence to show how many current account applications Mr N 
had made and how, if at all, this had impacted his credit file.
- Mr N hadnt had an overdraft when the account closed in 2016. Any application for an 
overdraft wouldve needed to have been assessed and wouldnt have been 
guaranteed. Mr N was therefore in the same position as he had been.
- The steps Barclays took in 2016 to put things right seemed reasonable. 
- There were some customer service issues, but nothing that meant the compensation 
needed to be increased.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. Mr N has made further representations about what has happened, the impact it has 
had and why he thinks Barclays needed to do more.
I asked another investigator to carry out some further investigation into the type of account 
that was held by Mr N, that is at the centre of this complaint.I also asked the investigator to check whether Barclays consented to us looking into the 
issues addressed in the 2016 final response letter. Barclays has confirmed that it does not 
consent to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that Barclays doesnt need to do anything further to resolve 
the complaint. I recognise that this will come as a disappointment to Mr N and that he feels 
very strongly that Barclays needs to do more. But I hope that my explanation helps him to 
understand why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
My decision is focused on what I consider to be the most salient points. If I dont mention 
something raised by one of the parties, it doesnt mean I havent taken it into account.
Let me say from the outset that I accept Mr N has gone through a very challenging time. Ive 
needed to think about the extent of Barclays errors and the impact this has had on Mr N. 
Barclays passing the debt associated to the account, onto a debt collection agency
I have previously mentioned to Mr N that I may not be able to look into the issues raised in 
2016 because they have been brought too late. The rules that govern the time limits and 
other relevant considerations for whether a complaint is one that falls within the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service are set out in the FCAs Handbook. The relevant rules, 
are:
DISP 2.8.2 R:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.:
 (1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2R.was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or.
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where the 
time limits in DISP 2.8.2R. have expired. 
Part of the complaint Mr N has referred to us, is to do with Barclays passing the debt to a 
debt collection agency and the impact this had on him. However, this is something he raised 
and that Barclays addressed in 2016. So under the relevant rules, Mr N had until June 2017 
to refer his concerns about this to us. Therefore, this part of the complaint has been brought 
out of time.
Ive thought about whether any exceptional circumstances apply that would mean, even 
though the complaint has been brought out of time, I can still consider it.
Mr N has said that he didnt refer his concerns to us after receiving Barclays letter in 2016, 
because he thought Barclays had done the best it could at the time. I accept this to be the 
case. However, Barclays was clear in the letter that it had made an error passing the debt to 
a debt collection agency, particularly in view of Mr Ns circumstances. So Mr N could have chosen to refer his concerns about what had happened, to us. Particularly if he thought that 
the offer of compensation wasnt enough. Im not aware of anything that was preventing him 
from doing so. 
So I find that the complaint about Barclays passing the debt relating to the account, to a debt 
collection agency has been brought out of time and no exceptional circumstances apply that 
mean I can consider this aspect of the complaint. 
Barclays decision to close the account
It could be argued that Barclays decision to close Mr Ns account is inextricably linked to it 
then passing the associated debt to a debt collection agency. Which would mean that this 
too has been brought out of time. However, the 2016 final response letter doesnt mention 
that Mr N specifically complained about the account being closed. It appears Barclays first 
admitted this was a mistake in 2020. So, Im satisfied this is something that I can consider.
Mr N is unhappy that Barclays closed the account in error because, as he sees it, its 
resulted in him being in a worse position and had a number of knock-on effects. This is on 
the basis that he believes the account that was closed was a full current account. If it was a 
full account, he would have been entitled to apply for an overdraft which may have resulted 
him in having access to credit at a lower cost than ended up being the case. Mr N says that 
after the account was closed, he only had a Basic Bank Account  which doesnt allow for 
the account holder to apply for an overdraft. 
The status of the account is quite important, because if Mr N did end up with a lesser 
account after Barclays closed his account in error, this may well have caused quite a 
significant amount of distress and inconvenience. However, the evidence I have strongly 
indicates that the account closed in 2016 was a Basic Bank Account, not a full current 
account. This evidence is in various forms, including a copy of the account welcome/opening 
letter and information from Barclays customer/account systems. 
I know that Mr N strongly believes the account was a full current account and that he thinks 
Barclays could easily have doctored its records. However, Im not persuaded thats the case. 
I did ask Barclays why it didnt mention the type of account that Mr N had, in its 
communication with him in the course of dealing with his complaint. It said that Mr N ought to 
have been aware of the type of account that he had. And that it mentioned the possibility of 
upgrading Mr Ns account to a full current account, because it was something hed asked for.
I do think that Barclays could and should have been clearer about this. Mr N had made it 
clear during the course of making his complaint, that he thought he had been put in a worse 
position as a result of the account closure. Barclays could have let Mr N know at that point, 
that its records indicated the account that closed was in fact a Basic Bank Account and not a 
full current account. 
However, this doesnt alter the fact that the evidence shows the account that was closed in 
error was a Basic Bank Account, not a full current account. And that being the case, I dont 
think that Mr N has ended up on a worse position due to the account closure, in terms of the 
account that he had and has. 
The impact of the default incorrectly placed against the account.
Mr N says the existence of the default has impacted his ability to obtain a full current account 
and other credit. And that the credit he has been able to access since the account closed, 
has been more expensive than it otherwise wouldve been.  Barclays accepts it shouldnt have registered a default against the account and that it should 
instead have been registered as an arrangement. 
The presence of the default will likely have had some impact. But there is no evidence to 
show how much of an impact it has had in terms of Mr Ns ability to obtain credit and on what 
terms. Mr N has said there were other issues with his credit file, including at least one other 
default. And that, at times, his lack of credit has affected his credit score. As such, he 
accepts the Barclays default wont have been the only factor affecting his ability to obtain 
credit on the best possible terms. Having considered everything, I dont think I can say that 
Barclays incorrectly recording a default instead of an arrangement has caused Mr N the 
financial problems he complained about. But, I do accept this will have caused him some 
trouble to put right. 
Mr N has pointed to guidance on our website that sets out some of the different levels of 
compensation awards we may make for different levels of upset caused. Ive looked at that, 
as well as all of the other evidence available. Bearing this in mind and that Mr N hasnt been 
left in a worse position in terms of the type of account that he has, I consider that Barclays 
offer of £1,000 is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £1,000 is fair. I dont require it to 
pay any additional compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman