DRN-3272308
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way British Gas insurance Limited handled a claim on her home 
care policy following a leak from her boiler.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs M contacted British Gas, shed noticed a leak coming from her airing 
cupboard where her boiler was stored.
British Gas said it couldnt send an engineer within a reasonable timeframe, so Mrs M would 
have to arrange her own repairs, and it would pay the invoice, subject to her policy terms. 
Mrs M did arrange some repairs which were refunded by British Gas, minus her policy 
excess.
In April 2021 Mrs M had a service from British Gas and no issues were noticed. But around 
two days later, Mrs M had another issue; she could hear loud banging coming from the airing 
cupboard. Again British Gas said it couldnt attend but it would refund any repairs she 
needed carrying out. Mrs M submitted an invoice for around £1,200, but British Gas only 
agreed to refund £96. It said the rest of the cost was for a powerflush, and this wasnt 
covered under Mrs Ms policy. 
Mrs M complained to British Gas about the service shed received. She said firstly, British 
Gas had cancelled her service, which should have been in February 2021 and would have 
likely found the problem earlier, and if it had done so, a repair would have been carried out 
without her excess having to be paid. She also said British Gas hadnt been clear with her 
that the cost of a powerflush wouldnt be covered, so she was now out of pocket as a result 
of British Gas poor service. She felt British Gas may have caused the further issues she had 
in April, given it had only attended her property a couple of days prior. 
British Gas didnt agree to change its position on reimbursing the cost of the powerflush. But 
it did offer Mrs M £200 compensation for delays in responding to her complaint and the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
Unhappy with British Gas response, Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought British Gas hadnt been clear with Mrs M on the limits of her cover. She 
thought British Gas should refund Mrs M the difference between what she paid for the 
powerflush, and what it would have charged her, which was £282.76.
Neither party accepted the outcome. British Gas said it couldnt be expected to list all the 
terms and conditions when Mrs M called to report the claim, and its policy terms are very 
clear that power flushes arent covered.
Mrs M said she may not have gone ahead with the powerflush at all if shed known it 
wouldnt be covered, as the issue she reported had been resolved, so she feels she should 
be reimbursed the full amount. 
As neither party agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator, Ive explained why 
below.
Mrs M has argued that had British Gas attended her property in February for her annual 
service as was expected, the engineer would have identified the leak she later claimed for in 
March and she wouldnt have had to pay her excess. Mrs M says when her plumber 
attended on 30 March, they advised the leak had been ongoing for some time. So Mrs M 
thinks it would have been picked up by British gas if it had attended her annual service. 
The service part of Mrs Ms policy isnt regulated, and so British Gas attendance of this isnt 
something this service could investigate. But Ive considered whether British Gas has acted 
fairly and reasonably in charging the excess after the first repair, and having done so, I think 
it was. I appreciate Mrs M says the leak could have been diagnosed earlier, but I havent 
seen enough that makes me think the leak Mrs M reported was ongoing as early as 
February. So I think its likely Mrs M would have had to pay the excess in any event. 
British Gas has reimbursed Mrs M for other repairs, except the powerflush. It said it advised 
Mrs M in the first call in March that it would only cover repairs noted in her policy as 
included. And although British Gas hasnt been able to provide this service with the call from 
April 2021, it accepts it didnt tell Mrs M about any limits on this occasion. But it says it 
shouldnt be responsible for any reimbursement of the powerflush cost as it is set out clearly 
in the terms.
I accept British Gas sets out that the cost of a powerflush wouldnt be covered in its policy 
document, but I dont think this is enough to say it was clear with Mrs M what she would be 
covered for. Mrs M called British Gas twice in the space of a few weeks with issues with her 
boiler. It couldnt attend on either occasion, so despite Mrs M having the cover, she didnt 
fully benefit from it. So I think this means British Gas needed to take care to explain fully that 
Mrs M may not be covered for all repairs, in particular, if a powerflush is recommended. I 
accept British Gas point that it cant be expected to read all of the terms to Mrs M on the 
phone, but I find it would have been reasonable for it to highlight that a powerflush wouldnt 
be covered, as this is one of the main repairs British Gas excludes, and can be costly. 
So Ive considered what Mrs M would have done, had British Gas been clear on her policy 
limits. Mrs M says she might not have had the powerflush done at all, as this was carried out 
at a later date, after the initial issue was resolved. And she only had it done as she was 
losing some heat from a couple of radiators. I accept Mrs Ms point, but I dont think its 
reasonable to ask British Gas to reimburse her fully for the cost of the powerflush. As Mrs M 
says, it was carried out later, after the initial problem was resolved, so it seems it wasnt 
needed to fix the issue shed claimed for. And she could have checked whether British Gas 
would cover this as an addition to repairing the fault. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ms argument that British Gas may have caused the further issues 
she encountered in April, given her service was only a couple of days prior. But I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest British Gas attendance caused Mrs M to need a powerflush. 
I also consider Mrs M has now had the benefit of the powerflush, her heating seems to be 
operating better, and it could mean that any further repairs needed relating to sludge, would 
potentially now be covered by her British Gas policy. Ive also considered that had British 
Gas been able to attend her property, she might have gone ahead with the powerflush at the 
time, given shed had a few issues with her heating and boiler in the weeks prior. 
However, it seems that had British Gas been able to attend, shed have been charged less 
than she paid for the powerflush. So I think a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint 
is for British Gas to reimburse Mrs M the difference between what she paid, and what it 
would have charged. Mrs M paid £1,132.76 for the powerflush. British Gas estimated it would have charged £850. 
So British Gas needs to pay £282.76. And as Mrs M has been out of pocket by this amount, 
it also needs to add 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of the invoice, to the 
date of settlement. 
British Gas has also offered £200 for the inconvenience caused by not initially responding to 
the complaint and being clear in its communication. Having considered everything, I think 
this is fair and reasonable for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited needs to pay £282.76 to settle the 
complaint. It also needs to add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the invoice 
was paid, until the date of settlement. 
If it hasnt done so already, it also needs to pay £200 compensation for unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman