DRN-2584238
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy, for blocked drains and subsidence.
What happened
In early-2017, Mrs B contacted Aviva due to an issue with her drainage, and a crack on an 
external wall. Aviva was her insurer at that time. When making the claim, Mrs B explained 
she had previously had a subsidence claim with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, 
who completed repairs to the drains in 2008.
Aviva appointed a company to inspect the drainage, and it declined the claim due to faulty 
workmanship during the previous repairs. Aviva directed Mrs B to Lloyds, so she could 
pursue the matter. 
Avivas drainage report concluded the cause of the damage was poor workmanship, and it 
noted the CCTV survey found the following:
- run one: junction installed wrong way round
- run two: liner creased 25% after junction to CWG
Mrs B contacted Lloyds in late-2017. Lloyds considered Avivas report, but in early-2018, 
Lloyds told Mrs B it was unable to assist. Lloyds said the contractor who completed the 
drainage repairs had since ceased trading, and it pointed towards the amount of time 
between its repairs and the issue with the junction coming to light.
In early-2019, Mrs B complained to both insurers. However, both insurers reiterated the 
responses previously given. In mid-2019, Mrs B contacted our service, and one of our 
investigators went on to consider two separate complaints against Aviva and Lloyds. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to take any further action at this time. She wasnt 
persuaded Avivas report showed the damage was due to Lloyds previous repairs. She said 
Avivas report doesnt confirm how the incorrectly fitted junction and creased liner is causing 
subsidence or blockages, or that these two issues directly relate to Lloyds repairs. She was 
also persuaded that if Lloyds drainage repairs were faulty, an issue would have presented 
itself sooner; and she noted Avivas report was silent on this point. She thought it was for 
Aviva to carry out further investigations to determine the cause of the current damage. 
Mrs B accepted our investigators findings, and as such, we closed the complaint against 
Lloyds. However, because Aviva disagreed, Mrs Bs complaint against Aviva has been 
passed to me to decide.
Our investigator has since clarified with Aviva and Mrs B, that she also thinks Aviva should 
compensate Mrs B £500 for the delays on her claim, in addition to undertaking further 
investigations.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of Avivas investigations and drainage report, I agree with our investigator. Ill go on 
to explain why, and what in my view, Aviva should do next. However, before I do, Ill set out 
the information we received from Lloyds about the 2008 claim. Aviva will need to keep this 
information in mind when undertaking further investigations.
Ill set out my findings under the following four headings: 2008 claim; blocked drains; 
subsidence; and compensation.
2008 claim
Lloyds says it doesnt know what works its contractor completed to the drains. However, its 
provided reports and correspondence from its loss adjuster, from the time of the claim. Ill 
summarise the information and the loss adjusters conclusions:
- Drainage investigations were to take place at the rear left corner of the rear outrigger. 
Displaced joints were found, which were due to the soil surrounding the pipes 
washing away, causing the pipes to drop.
- Theres clear evidence of historical distortions to the main property, in particular to 
the rear outrigger which slopes to the rear left corner. The extent of the sloping far 
outweighs the presence of the cracking, and this movement is thought to have 
happened in the early life of the structure.
- Historical distortion to the structure was identified to the floors and window in the first-
floor bathroom area. The repair specification will deal with the structural cracking and 
redecoration in the kitchen and bathroom areas, but wont include the relevelling of 
the floors, ceilings, or windows. The loss adjusters concluded these issues were a 
product of historical movement which happened in the early life of the structure.
- The cracking that had occurred was very minor and there were no concerns over the 
structural stability of the structure. The proposed crack repairs will address the minor 
areas of repair to the external fabric of the building. The proposed repairs to the rear 
elevation are the installation of a masonry reinforcement bar into the horizontal joint 
beds of the brickwork, which will extend either side of the cracking; this will then be 
rendered locally, and the rear elevation will be painted.
- A cash settlement was agreed with Mrs B and her brother-in-law, as they wished to 
address the window and floors, rather than the external decorations.
blocked drains
Mrs B made a claim for blocked drains. Avivas report says a junction has been installed the 
wrong way around and the liner is creased. However, the report doesnt say whether these 
two issues are causing blockages or leaks, and if so, how. I accept two issues were found, 
but the report doesnt comment on whether they are affecting the performance of the 
drainage.
Aviva told us it couldnt say whether the junction and creased liner were causing blockages, 
as any blockages would have been cleared before the CCTV survey. However, I consider it 
likely that Aviva would have been able to establish whether the drainage was performing 
adequately; and if it wasnt, made reasoned conclusions about the cause, based on the 
issues found.Avivas report doesnt go far enough, in my view. For Aviva to fairly decline the drainage 
claim, Im persuaded it needs to provide Mrs B with clarity over the following:
- Whether issues have been identified with the performance of the drainage, and if so, 
what the likely causes are and why.
- If the junction is thought to be causing an issue, and Aviva wishes to decline the 
associated repairs under a policy exclusion for faulty workmanship, it needs to 
demonstrate the installation didnt comply with the relevant standards, or was 
inadequate, at the time.
- If the creased liner is thought to be causing an issue, and Aviva wishes to decline the 
associated repairs under a policy exclusion, be that for faulty workmanship or wear 
and tear, it needs to demonstrate it was creased in such a way, rather than by an 
event covered by Mrs Bs policy.
- If Aviva remains of the view the drainage issues are due to faulty repairs completed 
by Lloyds in 2008, it should explain how its reached its conclusion (bearing in mind 
its not known what drainage repairs were undertaken by Lloyds), so Mrs B has 
something meaningful to follow up with in respect of Lloyds.
Its possible the drainage problem Mrs B reported to Aviva isnt covered. However, due to 
the limited information in its report, Im not persuaded any reasonable conclusions can be 
made either way. In my view, its not enough for Aviva to decline a claim without clear 
reasoning to support its conclusions.
So, Im persuaded Aviva needs to address the above four points. If after considering these 
points, Aviva maintains its decision to decline Mrs Bs drainage claim, she can complain 
further if she disagrees with its reasons.
subsidence
Mrs B made a claim for subsidence, but Aviva hasnt addressed this claim. Aviva has simply 
pointed towards the junction and creased liner, without making any findings on how these 
issues are causing subsidence  if indeed, there is further subsidence occurring at the 
property.
Mrs B made a claim for subsidence whilst Aviva was on cover. Therefore, Aviva needs to 
establish whether subsidence related movement is occurring, and if so, what the cause is. 
Once these two questions are answered, Aviva can determine whether the damage is 
covered under its policy.
Simply because a subsidence claim was successfully made with a previous insurer, doesnt 
free Aviva of its obligation to investigate damage later reported whilst its on cover. If theres 
further subsidence occurring, it doesnt automatically follow that its being caused by the 
same issue, or due to the previous insurers works.
So, Im persuaded Aviva needs to investigate the reported cracking and determine whether 
its subsidence related, and if so, the cause and whether its covered. If after completing the 
necessary investigations, Aviva decides Mrs Bs claim for subsidence should be declined, 
she can complain further if she disagrees with its conclusions.compensation
Mrs B made a claim for blocked drains and cracking to her property in early-2017. Although 
Aviva investigated the drains, Im not persuaded it fairly declined the drains in terms of the 
reasoning it gave; and it hasnt investigated the cracking to the property at all.
Its now four years since Mrs B first contacted Aviva, and whilst its not yet known whether 
Aviva will be responsible for covering the drains or cracking at Mrs Bs home, Im satisfied 
shes suffered upset and inconvenience due to the delays. As such, I agree with the £500 
compensation recommended by our investigator, in respect of acknowledging the impact 
this matter has likely had on Mrs B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above. I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Aviva Insurance Limited should:
- reconsider Mrs Bs claim for blocked drains, and if it maintains its decision to decline 
this part of the claim, provide Mrs B with reasoning as per the four points detailed 
above;
- investigate Mrs Bs subsidence claim; and
- compensate Mrs B £500 for the delays
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman