DRN-2779417
The complaint
B, a limited company (through its director Mr S), complains HSBC UK Bank Plc did not 
reimburse the money it transferred to a fraudster.
Although this is a complaint by B about its business account, I will refer to Mr S rather than 
the limited company throughout much of this decision as it was Mr S who interacted with the 
fraudster. 
What happened
Mr S had been advertising his car for sale online using a popular website. He received a call 
from someone pretending to work for that website. They promised him a refund of some of 
the fees hed paid. So, Mr S provided his personal credit and debit card details over the 
phone.
On 9 January 2020, Mr S received a text message from HSBC informing him that his 
personal credit card was close to its credit limit. He logged onto his online banking and 
realised that two unauthorised transactions had taken place  one on his credit card of 
£4,000 and one on his debit card of £200.
A short time later, Mr S received a call which appeared to come from HSBCs genuine 
telephone number. Unfortunately for Mr S, the caller was actually a fraudster pretending to 
represent HSBC. The caller advised Mr S that, in addition to his credit and debit cards, Bs 
account had also been compromised. He was instructed to transfer the available funds in Bs 
account to two other HSBC branch accounts. Mr S doesnt recall exactly what questions the 
caller asked or how much they knew about his account  but they did appear to know that he 
held a business account. 
Mr S made one payment on 9 January 2020 and two further payments on 10 January 2020. 
In total he transferred £11,026. Branch staff alerted Mr S to the fraud after hed followed the 
fraudsters instructions to visit a branch and reopen his business account. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC agreed that it hadnt 
provided effective warnings to Mr S (as required under the Code), but argued that he didnt 
have a reasonable basis for belief for making the payments, an exception to reimbursement 
under the Code. So, it refunded B 50% of its loss, as well as £53.65 it was able to recover 
from the banks the money was sent to. He also received a refund of the losses from his 
personal credit and debit cards. Those transactions do not form part of this complaint. 
In addition to HSBCs obligations under the Code, I am also mindful that when Mr S made 
these payments, HSBC should fairly and reasonably also have had systems in place to look 
out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk 
of fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment 
channel used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They didnt think Mr S lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payment. They pointed out the sophisticated 
technique employed by the fraudster in spoofing HSBCs telephone number and argued 
that the fraud which took place on Mr S personal cards only added to the believability of his 
accounts being compromised. In addition, they thought HSBC should have done more to 
intervene and stop the payments, given how out of character they were for B.
HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said:
- Mr S failed to adequately verify the information he was given.
- The technique used by the fraudsters  number spoofing is relatively well known 
and is described within the banks own fraud guide.
- As Mr S had already identified fraudulent activity on his credit card, he ought to have 
been more alert to the possibility that the call was not genuine, particularly when 
asked to make payments to bank accounts held at other banks.
- As all the payments Mr S was asked to make were from Bs overdraft, there wasnt 
actually any money to move or protect  reducing the plausibility of the scam.
- Mr S, as the director of B, is a commercial customer and ought to have been more 
aware of the risk of falling victim to a scam of this nature. In failing to acknowledge 
this, the investigator hasnt taken into account Mr S characteristics. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money B lost.  
I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. 
HSBC should, in any event, have intervened when the first payment was made as it 
was unusual and out of character for B. If it had done so, I am satisfied the fraud 
would have come to light and the loss would have been prevented.
In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund all the money B lost.
The money was taken from Bs overdraft, so HSBC should also refund any charges 
and interest associated with the payments. 
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr S had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr S failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.In considering whether Mr S had a reasonable basis of belief, it strikes me as particularly 
captivating that he received a call from the fraudster just a minute or so after realising he had 
actually been defrauded on his personal accounts. The call appeared to support what he 
already knew  that his accounts were at risk. It was a culmination of a series of events  
some genuine interactions with, and some fraudulent impersonations of, the bank. The text 
hed received was genuine, his internet banking had shown evidence of the apparent fraud 
and the number the fraudsters called on appeared to be that of the actual bank. So, I can 
understand why Mr S, or anyone else in his circumstances, might have had difficulty 
distinguishing the genuine and fraudulent contact, and would have reasonably assumed 
them all to be genuine. 
Of course, there was an alternative explanation  that which was really happening  but 
I cant agree that Mr S acted unreasonably by not recognising that possibility (or linking the 
earlier fraudulent call from the car sale website to the later call), especially as the techniques 
used by the fraudsters  particularly number spoofing are not very well known  and 
certainly dont appear to be to Mr S.
So, its against that quite compelling background that Ive considered whether, in following 
the fraudsters instructions, Mr S had a reasonable basis of belief. 
Its unclear the extent to which the caller had more than superficial information about Bs 
account, though Im conscious that the tricks sometimes employed by fraudsters can give 
the victim the impression more is known about them than actually is. Its also true that, in 
hindsight, Mr S might have thought it strange to have been asked to send money to two 
different accounts. Importantly though, I dont think it would have necessarily been apparent 
that the payments werent going to HSBC accounts. The knowledge that the first two digits of 
a sort code indicate the bank isnt, I think, very widely known and, again, wasnt known to 
Mr S. 
Neither do I think it was unreasonable for Mr S not to distinguish between the money B had 
available to spend in the form of an overdraft and its own money. After all, if the account had 
been compromised, as the fraudster suggested, there would be little difference between B 
being deprived of its own money and a debt being created that it would have to repay. 
Its not entirely clear (and Mr S cant recall) why the fraudsters instructed him to carry out the 
transactions over two days. This does suggest the need to move the money wasnt 
particularly urgent. And, I also accept that Mr S would have had time to stop and reflect 
before making the payments on 10 January 2020. But, for the reasons outlined, the 
circumstances surrounding the initial call from the fraudster gave Mr S little reason to think 
he wasnt talking to the genuine HSBC. If anything, the lack of urgency might have seemed 
more consistent with the actions of a genuine bank. 
Finally, HSBC have suggested that because Mr S is a commercial customer he ought to be 
held to a higher standard and be more aware of common scams. In my view Mr S shouldnt 
be lumped together with larger commercial enterprises. Mr S is the sole director, and only 
employee, of B  a business which doesnt appear to be run from a commercial premises. 
So, I dont think the fact B is a commercial entity necessarily means it, or rather Mr S, would 
or should have any heightened awareness of this type of scam. 
In summary, Im satisfied HSBC havent shown Mr S lacked a reasonable basis for belief in 
making the transactions.In addition, Im persuaded that HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this 
scam. The first transaction of £3,290 was to a new payee and far higher than any transaction 
which had debited Bs account in the previous six months. Given that the scam appears to 
have come to light quite quickly when Mr S visited the branch on 10 January 2020, its 
reasonable to think that the same would have happened had HSBC called when Mr S was 
attempting the first payment.
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, rather than just 
reimbursed B under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that HSBC should rework 
any charges and debit interest that have accrued on Bs overdrawn balance from the date of 
loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund B under the CRM Code.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
- Pay B the remaining 50% of the money lost  £5,513, deducting any amount HSBC 
were able to recover and return to B. 
- Pay B any charges and interest that have accrued on Bs account as a result of it 
being overdrawn due to this scam.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman