DRN-4174414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
handled and settled a claim on their motor insurance policy. 
Reference to AA includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a motor insurance policy with AA. Mr C was the named driver on his 
wifes policy. In April 2022 Mr and Mrs C told AA the engine on the car had caught alight 
while Mr C was driving it and the car had been destroyed. AA deemed the car a total loss 
and said it would settle the claim by paying the cars market value. But AA noticed that a 
mistake had been made when the policy had been set up, which meant insurance shouldnt 
have been offered. It said it could either cancel the policy, which would mean it wouldnt pay 
the claim. Or it could remove Mr C from the policy and continue with the claim. Mr and Mrs C 
agreed to remove Mr C from the policy. AA valued Mr and Mrs Cs car at £3,425, less the 
excess of £400. 
Mr and Mrs C complained. They werent happy with the valuation, or with the service AA had 
provided. In particular, they felt Mr C had been accused of dishonesty when buying the 
insurance policy, despite answering all of AAs questions honestly and accurately. 
AA explained how theyd valued Mr and Mrs Cs car, and thought the valuation was fair. It 
recognised Mr and Mrs Cs frustration that Mr C had to be removed from the policy but 
thought this was a reasonable alternative to voiding (cancelling) the policy. AA recognised it 
hadnt logged and addressed their complaint properly and offered £150 for that oversight.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He thought the valuation was fair. But he 
thought AA should reinstate Mr C to the policy as no misrepresentation had been made. And 
refund the fees it had charged for removing Mr C from the policy. He also thought AA should 
pay £250 rather than the £150 it had offered, for the delays, distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
As AA disagreed with our investigators view, this complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision. I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I sent a provisional 
decision to Mr and Mrs C and AA to give them an opportunity to comment. Mr and Mrs C 
said they were happy with the outcome and AA didnt have anything to add. So, my findings 
and my decision below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main aspects to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. The amount AA offered in 
settlement for their car. And the service it provided. Ill look at each in turn.
The valuation
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy says that if AA deem their car a total loss, 
they will pay them the market value. The policy defines market value as the cost of 
replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, specification and 
condition at the date of accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to 
use motor valuation guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide 
research and work out the likely retail selling price rather than advertised asking prices.
Three of the four valuation guides we use provided values of £2,670, £3,177 and £3,575. 
The fourth guide didnt provide a value due to the age of the car. I understand Mr and Mrs C 
bought the car less than a year before the incident for an amount closer to £5,000. And as 
they said the car was in good condition before the incident, they feel as though AAs 
valuation was unfair. 
But Im not persuaded AAs valuation is unreasonable. I say this because AA valued Mr and 
Mrs Cs car at £3,425, which was the higher of the two valuations in the trade guides it used. 
And that valuation is within the range of valuations in the guides we use. Mr and Mrs C have 
pointed to some advertised asking prices that are higher than the valuation offered by AA but 
their policy says AA will pay the market value of the car at the time of loss. And in light of the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied AA has done that. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. But Im not persuaded AA 
has acted unfairly by offering them £3,425 as the market value for their car. It follows that I 
dont think AA need to do anything more with regard to the valuation.
The service provided
When AA set up Mr and Mrs Cs car insurance policy, it asked them whether they had been 
involved in any previous accidents or claims in the last five years. And whether theyd had 
any convictions or penalties endorsed on their licences. Ive listened to this call and its clear 
that Mr C provided the correct information. He told AA hed been involved in an accident 
previously when hed been deemed as being at fault. And that hed been convicted of two 
speeding offences within the last five years. 
AA has shown us evidence that, had it set up the policy correctly, and recorded the previous 
claim and the two endorsements against Mr C alone, it wouldnt have offered them 
insurance. Thats because their underwriting criteria says policies can only have one fault 
claim and two convictions if the claim and convictions are for different drivers. For whatever 
reason, AA recorded the previous (fault) claim against Mrs C rather than Mr C, which meant 
the policy could continue. But AA noticed the error when Mr and Mrs C made their claim.
At this point, AA recognised it had made a mistake when setting up the policy. So, rather 
than cancelling the policy outright, which would have meant not acting on Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim, it offered to remove Mr C from the policy, thus complying with its underwriting criteria. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted the offer and AA was able to continue with the claim. 
This was a pragmatic and fair way of resolving the situation and I think AA acted reasonably 
in giving Mr and Mrs C the opportunity to have their claim considered. 
Unfortunately, however, the way AA communicated that decision was poor. It didnt explain 
the situation clearly and repeatedly referred to undisclosed information. Mr and Mrs C said they felt as though theyd been accused of fraud when they knew theyd given AA the correct 
information it had asked for. It was only about a week after Mr and Mrs C made their claim 
that two calls were made which helped to clarify the situation. 
Putting things right
So, what do AA need to do to put things right? AA has shown us its underwriting criteria and 
Im satisfied it wouldnt have offered insurance to Mr C had it recorded the information about 
previous claims and convictions correctly. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask AA to reinstate him to the policy. That would be going against its own underwriting 
criteria. 
AA acted fairly by continuing to consider Mr and Mrs Cs claim, having removed Mr C from 
the policy. As I say, I think that was a pragmatic and reasonable way of resolving the 
situation. But I do think AA should do more to compensate Mr and Mrs C for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced due to the mistake made by AA when setting up the policy 
and the poor communication that followed the claim. Mr C said he felt as though hed been 
accused of fraud and I can understand why he said that. Although AA acted within a few 
days to explain the situation, AA continued to refer to undisclosed information and I can 
understand the worry and frustration that will have caused. 
AA paid Mr and Mrs C £150 for not recording and addressing their complaint properly. But it 
has not, up to now, recognised the impact of the original mistake it made when setting up the 
policy, and the poor communication that followed the claim. I think AA should pay Mr and 
Mrs C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by that poor service, in addition to the 
£150 already paid. I think thats a fair and reasonable amount in light of the particular 
circumstances of this complaint.
AA should also take steps to make sure it has recorded the previous claims and convictions 
correctly, including the claim made by Mr and Mrs C in April 2022. 
Finally, AA should refund any fees paid by Mr and Mrs C when it removed Mr C from the 
policy, if it has not done that already. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs C a further £200 in addition to the £150 its already paid. 
Take action to ensure it has recorded the previous claims and convictions correctly, 
including the claim made by Mr and Mrs C in April 2022.
Refund any fees paid by Mr and Mrs C when it removed Mr C from the policy, if it has 
not done that already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman