DRN-2335303
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined a 
claim on her rent protection cover for loss of rent and council tax.
What happened
The background of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ive summarised events.
In February 2019 Miss B entered into a 12-month rental agreement with tenants. In 
March 2019 she was told by the tenants of an escape of water within the property. 
Miss B said she had the necessary works completed to stop the leak, and she 
provided dehumidifiers to dry out the property.
In July 2019 the tenants left the property. Miss B said this was because they had 
found the property impossible to live in Shortly after Miss B inspected the 
property and says she identified considerable water damage and made a claim to 
Lloyds for repairs as well as loss of rent. Lloyds declined the claim as it said the 
property hadnt been unhabitable. And it said council tax would never be covered. 
Miss B complained, saying shed been told the loss of rent and council tax bills would 
be covered under the policy. Lloyds still declined the claim, but said it hadnt clearly 
set her expectations. So, it paid her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss B brought her complaint to this service. She said the assurances given by 
Lloyds led her to release the existing tenants and not seek new ones  so she will 
have suffered a loss if the rent isnt covered by the policy. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said the calls hed listened to didnt 
indicate the claim would be paid, simply information about what cover is provided 
under the policy. And the evidence available suggested the property was habitable.
Miss B disagreed  saying there had been subsequent conversations with Lloyds in 
which she was given certainty that the claim for rent and council tax would be paid. 
She said she had not mitigated her losses as a result of these assurances, and the 
property had been unsafe to live in.
Our investigator since requested all of the available calls from Lloyds and provided a 
detailed breakdown of them to Miss B. He specified within a call in February 2020 the 
subject of council tax was brought up but the agent never confirmed it would be paid 
 and he thought Miss Bs uncertainty of the subject during the call supported this. 
And reiterated shed been told in an earlier exchange (in November 2019) council tax 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Lloyds also said the numbers provided by Miss B to demonstrate the additional calls 
shed made, were not in fact for Lloyds insurance, and instead were for a separate 
Lloyds business. It said it was able to confirm this as its phone lines werent open on 
26 December which was one of the dates of her call. And it confirmed it had no 
available details of any calls prior to August 2019 when the claim was first reported. 
So, the investigator said he hadnt changed his mind. 
Because Miss B disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim for loss of rent  and council tax
Miss Bs policy says:
If your private residence is made uninhabitable by any cause under What we cover for 
Buildings  Private residence cover, we will pay for  Rent you should have received but 
have lost
This means for Miss Bs claim for rent she shouldve received to be successful, the property 
would need to be uninhabitable. Miss B has highlighted that this phrase isnt defined within 
the policy. Where a word doesnt have a particular definition within a policy, I would interpret 
the word in light of its ordinary meaning, and reflect the intention of the parties and the 
commercial sense of the agreement. Dictionary definitions refer to the term meaning not fit 
for habitation. I think that would reflect the commercial sense of the policy  to cover 
situations where Miss B receives no rent because the property cannot be lived in. 
Within Lloyds final response to Miss B, it gave examples of what it would make a property 
uninhabitable, such as having no washing, sleeping or cooking. I think these are fair 
examples, but I wouldnt consider this as an exhaustive list. So, Ive thought about the 
condition of Miss Bs property and whether its condition rendered it uninhabitable. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of its building validation report. This describes the damage in 
detail and provides various photos across the home. From this its clear the impact of the 
previous escape of water had led to wallpaper lifting from damp walls, skirting boards 
needing replacing, alongside other damage and unsightly markings on some walls. It 
mentions bathroom tiles may include asbestos-containing material but no risk of exposure or 
to health from this.
Lloyds has said because the kitchen and bathroom were still functional and the property only 
required drying and decoration, and not structural works, it was still habitable. Having 
thought about this carefully, I think Lloyds conclusion is based on and supported by the 
evidence provided.
Ive gone on to think about what Miss B has told us. In her own words shes said the property 
was impossible to live in due to the need to constantly run dehumidifiers, she also said 
flooring had been removed in the kitchen and bathroom which left sticky patches. She also 
referenced the floor tiles potentially containing asbestos.
On its face, I can imagine having to run dehumidifiers wouldve been frustrating, as would 
having flooring with missing sections in places. But I wouldnt consider this to amount to the 
home being uninhabitable and more of an inconvenience. And in regards to the tiles, Ive 
been given nothing to suggest the presence of asbestos containing tiles (which are not 
uncommon) did pose a risk to the occupants or anyone else that made the property uninhabitable. And it seems the reason for the testing it carried out was in relation to any 
remedy it would have to carry out if it were to disturb these tiles during repair.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Lloyds decision to decline the claim for rent was fair and 
reasonable  simply because the property wasnt uninhabitable as it needed to be for the 
claim to succeed.
Miss B has referenced this claim including council tax. The policy itself (as Ive quoted 
above) only references rent. And Ive seen nothing else in the policy that suggests 
otherwise. So Im satisfied that council tax wouldve never formed part of a claim under the 
terms of the policy even if it had been successful. I appreciate Miss B has asked for the 
claim to be honoured in light of its communication, and Ive gone on to consider this below.
Communication from Lloyds
Miss B said as a result of mis-information and assurances from Lloyds she allowed her 
tenants to leave the property and hadnt sought to place new tenants. So, Ive looked at the 
available evidence to determine what most likely happened. 
Our investigator has already provided a detailed and comprehensive breakdown of each of 
the available calls and their content. So, Im not going to repeat this detail again here.
Suffice to say having listened to all of the available calls and read all of Lloyds internal 
notes, alongside Miss Bs testimony Having done so Ive heard and seen nothing to suggest 
Lloyds guaranteed the rent or council tax would be covered. And as a result, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds mis-led Miss B. While she may recall this assurance being given, this isnt 
supported by the available evidence.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman