DRN-3348401
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled a claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible
for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The claim and complaint are in relation to a hatchback car that had been registered in 2010.
Mr C acquired it in May 2021.
For the year from May 2021, Mr C had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. UKI was
responsible for dealing with claims, up to the market value of the car and subject to an
excess of £200.00.
Unfortunately in mid- September 2021, Mr Cs car was damaged in an accident. His sister
and her daughter were in the car. Police attended the scene.
UKI didnt answer its claims telephone line. So UKI didnt arrange the recovery of the
vehicle, for which Mr C says he paid £60.00 to a local garage.
UKI said the car was likely a total loss.
Mr C complained to UKI about poor service and communication. He also complained about
how UKI had recorded his no-claims discount (NCD).
On 22 September 2021, UKI noticed that due to an administration error, Mr C hadnt
received updates on his claim.
By a final response dated 24 September 2021, UKI acknowledged that it hadnt answered
the call on the day of the accident. It also acknowledged the administration error and said it
had put it right. UKI said it was paying £200.00 into Mr Cs account.
On about 11 October 2021, UKI sent Mr C a cheque for its pre-accident valuation of the car 
of £2,400.00 less the policy excess of £200.00, that is a cheque for £2,200.00.
Mr C brought his complaint to us on 13 October 2021. His complaint included dissatisfaction
with the valuation of the car and with the lack of payment for a child car seat.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
the £200.00 already offered was a reasonable attempt at recognising the impact of the
errors. But he recognised the need to resolve the issues of the reimbursement for the
recovery, and a claim for the child car seat. He recommended that UKI should:
1. reimburse the £60.00 payment for the recovery, should Mr C provide evidence 
such as a bank or credit card statement; and
2. allow Mr C to enter a claim for the car seat in line with their normal terms and 
conditions. Where proof of ownership would normally be required, its reasonable 
that Mr C should provide this.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to UKI on 1 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
UKI shouldve helped Mr C or his sister on the day of the accident. Mr C has said that 
he paid £60.00 in cash to a local garage for recovery of his vehicle. Hes given the 
contact details of the garage. So I accept that he paid £60.00 cash. I was minded to 
find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to reimburse him without any receipt or 
documentary evidence. 
As hed been out of pocket, I intended to direct UKI to add interest at our usual rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr C or from UKI, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint. I intended to direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr C:
1. £60.00 in reimbursement of his payment for recovery of his vehicle; and
2. simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of the 
accident to the date of the reimbursement. If UKI considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr 
C how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Neither Mr C nor UKI has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that  before we can deal with a
consumers complaint  the consumer mustve made that complaint to the financial firm and
waited up to eight weeks for a final response.
UKI recorded Mr C as having 9 years NCD. UKIs final response said 9 years was its
maximum. But it said it would issue a document confirming the number of years NCD earned
with UKI when a policyholder ceases to be its customer. I accept that explanation. I dont
consider that Mr C will lose out financially as a result of UKI recording 9 years NCD in May
2021.
From his NCD, I find it likely that Mr C hadnt had any accident or any need to make a claim
in many years. So I accept that the accident and the need to make a claim were disturbing
for him.UKI shouldve helped Mr C or his sister on the day of the accident. Mr C has said that he
paid £60.00 in cash to a local garage for recovery of his vehicle. Hes given the contact
details of the garage. So I accept that he paid £60.00 cash. I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to reimburse him without any receipt or documentary evidence. As hes been out 
of pocket, I intend to direct UKI to add interest at our usual rate.
The policy terms included the following:
If your car is written off, or is stolen and not recovered, you wont get a courtesy car.
I find that this was clear. And its not unusual for a motor insurer to provide a courtesy car
only while its repairer is repairing the policyholders car.
Mr Cs car was over ten years old and seriously damaged. So it was likely to be written off.
And UKI told Mr C that within a couple of days of the accident. I dont consider that UKI
treated Mr C unfairly by not arranging a courtesy vehicle for him.
Its not unusual for financial firms to make payments of compensation directly into a
consumers bank account at around the same time as sending a final response letter. Such
payment doesnt adversely affect the consumer or his right to pursue the complaint with us.
Ive thought about UKIs lack of contact on the day of the accident and in the days after it.-
and the impact on Mr C. I dont under-estimate Mr Cs concern that UKI left his sister
unsupported in a vulnerable situation with her child. I accept that Mr C felt left in the dark in
the days after the accident.
If UKI hadnt made a payment, I wouldve found it fair and reasonable to direct it to pay
compensation of £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. It follows that I consider that UKIs
payment of £200.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr C had complained to UKI about the valuation of his vehicle and UKI responded to that
complaint after its final response. The investigator gave his opinion on it. Mr C hasnt said he
disagreed with that opinion. Nevertheless I will deal with that issue.
We expect insurance companies to value vehicles by using retail prices from the trade
guides. Those guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices.
We place less weight on advertisements as they show asking prices that may be negotiated
downwards.
Ive noted the make, model, age and recorded milage of Mr Cs car. I accept that it was in
good condition before the accident. For a car like Mr Cs, Ive seen retail prices in the trade
guides as follows:
Glasss £2,400.00
CAP £2,510.00
Cazana £2,642.00
I consider that to be quite a narrow range. After making a small deduction for pre-accident
damage, UKI adopted a valuation of £2,400.00. In any event, that valuation was within the
narrow range of the trade guide figures. So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable.
From the date of the accident in September to the date of UKIs cheque in October was less
than a month. I dont find that unfair or unreasonable.The policy terms also included the following:
If you have a child car seat fitted to your car and your car is involved in an accident,
well arrange a replacement, or cover you for the cost of replacing the child car seat
with a new one of a similar standard, even if there is no apparent damage. You may
be required to provide proof of ownership as part of the claim.
I dont consider that Mr C made a claim or a complaint about the car seat until after UKI had
given its final response. Nevertheless I can deal with that issue by saying that Im pleased to
note that UKI has reimbursed Mr C. 
Putting things right
UKI shouldve helped Mr C or his sister on the day of the accident. Mr C has said that he
paid £60.00 in cash to a local garage for recovery of his vehicle. Hes given the contact
details of the garage. So I accept that he paid £60.00 cash. I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to reimburse him without any receipt or documentary evidence. As hes been out 
of pocket, I intend to direct UKI to add interest at our usual rate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr C:
1. £60.00 in reimbursement of his payment for recovery of his vehicle; and
2. simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of the 
accident to the date of the reimbursement. If UKI considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr 
C how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman