DRN-1579715
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Miss S took out a hire purchase agreement in 2001 to buy electrical goods. At the same time 
she was sold a PPI policy.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the monthly repayment if Miss S was 
unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until 
either Miss S returned to work or for up to 12 months. During the time the policy was active 
on Miss Ss account she was charged £6.18 in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss S complaint should be upheld.
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place nearly 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss S complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Miss S that the PPI was optional.
Miss S applied for the hire purchase at a store, the credit was used to buy electrical goods.
AXA has shown us a copy of the original hire purchase application form. I can see that the 
credit agreement has been printed and includes Miss Ss name, address and telephone 
numbers. So I think it must have been completed during a conversation with a member of 
staff at the store, before being printed and passed to Miss S to check and sign.
I can see there is a section headed, Payment Protection Insurance Application. This 
section contains a box beside the statement, I require payment protection insurance. The 
section goes on to state, ONLY SIGN IF YOU WANT COVER. I can see Miss S has signed 
immediately below this statement.  After taking everything into account I think AXA most 
likely made it clear that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this after so many years.I dont think AXA advised Miss S to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Miss S clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Miss S would have 
changed her mind about buying the policy if she had been given better or clearer 
information. I cant say she would have done. I say this because.
Miss S was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
Miss S has said shed receive sick pay for up to six months if she couldnt work. But the 
policy wouldve covered her monthly repayment every month for up to 12 months. And it 
wouldve paid the same benefit if Miss S lost her job.
Miss S has said her family would have helped her meet the repayments, but the PPI policy 
would mean she wouldnt need to ask for help. And her family might not have been in a 
position to help when she needed it most.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Miss S wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Miss S has told us she didnt have any medical conditions in 2001 which the 
policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Miss S was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Miss S had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss S complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman