DRN-3029129
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
following a collision.
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. He was involved in a collision with another 
vehicle. He reported the incident to Admirals out of hours service. 
Later the same morning he rang Admirals claim line to check that it had received his claim 
and to arrange a courtesy car. He told Admirals agent that hed had to make an emergency 
stop after the car in front of him had braked suddenly. And although hed managed to avoid 
hitting the car in front, another car had hit his car in the rear. Mr B described the damage to 
both cars.
Having taken brief details of the incident and vehicle damage from Mr B, Admirals agent 
said that as Mr B wasnt at fault for the accident, he could either use a non-fault service, 
with no excess to pay, or claim on his own policy and pay an excess. She said the non-fault 
service would be carried out by a company (which Ill refer to as Company A), and that 
Company A might also be able to provide Mr B with a vehicle of a similar size to his own. 
Mr B chose the non-fault service.
Mr Bs car was duly taken to Company A for the non-fault service, which took significantly 
longer than originally anticipated. Mr B was shocked when he subsequently received an 
invoice from Company A for £8,500. And when he hadnt paid the invoice a couple of weeks 
later, Company A transferred it to a debt recovery company, incurring further charges.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought that Mr B had described the incident honestly, and that Admirals 
agent should have realised at the outset that it was inappropriate to have recorded the 
incident as non-fault on Mr Bs part. She thought the agent had steered Mr B towards the 
non-fault service. And she hadnt told Mr B that the replacement vehicle was a hire car, and 
that there was a risk that hed have to pay for the hire himself. 
She said Admiral should put Mr B in the position hed have been in if the accident had been 
assessed at the start as one for which he was at least partly at fault. And Admiral should 
settle any costs Mr B had been asked to pay by Company A directly with Company A and 
pay Mr B £300 for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for similar reasons.
Admiral has pointed out that Mr B was told at the start of the call when he reported the 
accident that he must provide honest and accurate information. And it says that it must rely 
on the customers version of events to make its initial assessment of the claim and to decide 
its initial thoughts on liability. It says Mr B described the incident as him doing nothing other 
than simply braking and being hit in the rear. 
Admiral has explained that its only if it receives any liability dispute from third party insurers 
or solicitors that it would review liability further and carry out a full investigation and take full 
damage into consideration. It says Mr B didnt tell it that the other driver disputed liability at 
the scene of the accident. And it wasnt until three weeks after the accident that the other 
drivers insurers told it that liability was disputed.
But Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr B did anything other than provide an honest 
and accurate recollection of what had happened. Mr Bs consistently told us that the other 
driver didnt dispute liability at the scene of the accident. He says the other driver was being 
treated by paramedics, and he only spoke to the passenger, to exchange details. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr B and Admirals agent on the day of the accident. And 
Im satisfied that its clear that Mr Bs description of the damage to the cars includes damage 
to the side. This wasnt picked up on by Admirals agent, who quickly reached the conclusion 
that Mr B wasnt responsible for the accident, and that the claim should be treated as non-
fault. She said:
As you are not at fault for the accident your no claims bonus will not be affected. 
She went on to say that Mr B had two options for the repairs to his car.  He could:
 use the non-fault service available to you where theres no excess to pay. That service is 
provided by a company called [Company A] and they will deal with the repairs to your vehicle 
from one of their approved repairers. Now they may also be able to provide you with a 
similar sized vehicle to your own which we can discuss separately. Or you can make a claim 
on your own policy where your excess would be payable. So would you like to use the non-
fault service today?
Mr B said Yeah, it would make sense wouldnt it, to which Admirals agent replied It does, 
yes.
The agent continued:
In reference to the replacement vehicle, they may be able to provide you with a similar sized 
vehicle to your own, which we can discuss separately in more detail with you. Would you like 
to use that service also? 
Mr B said that he would. And the agent said shed transfer Mr B to Company A at the end of 
the call. The agent then reiterated that Admiral was treating the accident as a non-fault 
incident which means your no claims bonus wont be affected and as we are using 
[Company A] for the repairs and replacement vehicle theres no excess to pay.I accept that Mr B said the other car had hit his car in the rear. But the account he gave of 
the accident was brief and the agent didnt ask him for any further detail. Given that he also 
described damage to the side of the cars, I think it should have been clear to Admirals agent 
at the outset that it was unlikely that it was going to be possible to treat this as a 
straightforward, no fault incident. And in the circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable, 
even on the limited information the agent had, to tell Mr B that the he wasnt at fault for the 
accident and to offer him the option of the non-fault service.
The agent didnt warn Mr B that Admiral might change its mind about liability on further 
investigation. Nor did she tell him that the courtesy car which Mr B had referred to, and 
thought he was getting, would, in fact, be a hire car  or that there was any risk that hed end 
up having to pay the cost of the hire car himself. In fact she didnt tell him that there was 
even potentially any down-side at all to choosing the non-fault service. Instead, she seemed 
to assume that Mr B would want the non-fault service. And with no warning of any potential 
pitfalls, its not difficult to see why Mr B chose this option in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge that Admirals agent said that Company A might be able to provide Mr B with 
a similar sized vehicle to his own, and that it could discuss that separately, in more detail, 
with Mr B. But there was no further discussion about the replacement vehicle. Instead, the 
agent simply asked Mr B whether hed like to use that service too, and Mr B confirmed that 
he would. It was clear from what Mr B said at the beginning of the call that he was expecting 
to arrange a courtesy car. And I think its understandable that he didnt expect to have to pay 
anything for the car provided by Company A.
Admiral has commented that it sent Mr B two emails telling him he was going to be held 
liable for the accident, but he didnt take any action with Company A as a result. But those 
emails werent sent until more than three months after the accident. And by then it would 
have been too late to avoid the costs charged by Company A.
If Admirals agent had identified on the first phone call, as I find she should have done, that it 
was unlikely that it would be possible to settle the claim on a non-fault basis, the non-fault 
service with Company A wouldnt have been an option. Mr B would have needed to claim on 
his own policy with Admiral and pay the policy excess. But that would have been all. So I 
think Admiral should put Mr B in the position hed have been in if that had happened. I also 
accept that Mr B has been caused stress by being confronted with an unexpected and 
significant bill. And I consider the £300 recommended by the investigator to be reasonable to 
reflect this.
Putting things right
To put things right, Admiral should:
Put Mr B in the financial position hed have been in if it had treated the claim as a 
fault claim from the outset;
Pay directly to Company A all costs which it is requiring Mr B to pay (including, for 
the avoidance of doubt, all extra costs added by the debt collection company 
appointed by Company A); and
Pay Mr B £300 to apologise for the stress and inconvenience hes experienced.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman