DRN-3091592
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
his credit limit.
What happened
Mr S had a Barclaycard with a limit of £9,300. On 10 December 2020, Barclaycard reduced 
the limit to £3,350.
Mr S complained. He couldnt see why Barclaycard took the action. He hadnt been told 
about what was going to happen. He hadnt received a letter from Barclaycard  and the text 
messages just referred to that letter. The reduction was unnecessary and inconvenient. He 
also tried to get through to Barclaycard to find out why this had happened but couldnt get an 
explanation.
Barclaycard said theyd reviewed a lot of customer limits, including Mr Ss. This was in line 
with their lending policies. Theyd given 30 days notice of the reduction  as they wrote to 
Mr S in October 2020. They also sent SMS messages as reminders. They offered to review 
Mr S limit again after four months since the reduction. They apologised for the poor service 
hed received when he called them and paid compensation of £25.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had written to Mr S on 
28 October 2020. And theyd sent two text reminders. The letter said his limit was to be 
reduced, but he could ask for his limit to be reviewed if he sent them information about his 
income. Barclaycard acted within their terms and conditions.
Mr S said hed not received the letter from Barclaycard. And the texts just referred to the 
letter. So  he didnt know what was going on. And  he didnt receive their final response, 
nor anything about the compensation of £25. He asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened here. Mr S says hes been inconvenienced as Barclaycard 
reduced his limit from £9,300 to £3,350 in December 2020. Let me say  we are an informal 
dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a complaint 
from a consumer about a financial business. We dont take sides. Nor are we the regulator of 
Barclaycard  thats the role of the FCA.
In this case, its for Barclaycard to take its own commercial decisions about Mr S credit limit, 
based on its own lending criteria. Thats for Barclaycard to decide  and we wont interfere 
with that. But  we do see if Barclaycard have acted reasonably in the way theyve done 
that, for example, by communicating with Mr S.
So  I can see that Barclaycard wrote to Mr S on 28 October 2020. The letter gave 30 days 
notice that they were going to reduce his limit to £3,350. It invited him to send them details of 
his income if he wanted the decision to be reviewed. Mr S didnt respond to that. He says he 
didnt get the letter  but Barclaycard told us that it was sent to the address that they had on 
their files. It was the same address that Mr S advised us of. Barclaycard then sent him two 
reminder texts on 4 November 2020 and 23 November 2020. Both reminded him to read the 
letter, and the second one also advised him his limit was to be reduced. It said we just want 
to remind you that your credit limit will be lowered on 8 December 2020. Please see the 
letter we sent you for more information. I think the messages were clear.  Mr S says he did 
get these - but didnt take any action because he hadnt got the letter. At this service we take 
the view that if a letter has been sent to a customers address, then the business concerned 
cant do anymore  and we must assume its been delivered by Royal Mail. And  in all 
honesty, having received the second text  which said his limit was to be reduced - I think he 
shouldve called Barclaycard then  but I cant see that he did.
I looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions. And they say that they can change credit 
limits if they wish. They say We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your 
account usage and history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, information 
we receive from credit reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant.
Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it 
from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know. And I can see 
that they gave Mr S more than 30 days notice of the reduction  so that was fair.
I also looked at Mr S account statements  and he didnt use the limit of £9,300. Since July 
2020, the highest statement balance was £3,195  so its unlikely that the reduction in limit 
wouldve inconvenienced him very much. Although  I accept that it would have if he was 
planning to use the card for some significant expenditure in the future. That said, Mr S hasnt 
said that might be the case.
I can see that Mr S had some service issues when he called Barclaycard in December 2020. 
Barclaycard aphorised for that and paid compensation of £25  I think that was fair.
 
Mr S has also said that he didnt get Barclaycards final response dated 22 December 2020, 
or anything about the compensation paid of £25. Again, Ive seen that that letter was sent to 
Mr S home address, and it confirmed the payment of £25. Ive also seen that this amount 
was credited to his credit card account on 22 December 2020.
And so  overall, I think Barclaycard acted fairly. And, while I accept that this will be 
disappointing for Mr S, I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman