DRN-3979138
The complaint
Ms C and Mr D have complained that AWP P&C SA have refused to pay anything in 
settlement of their claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
B is required to handle claims promptly and fairly as set out in ICOBS 8.1.1.
Ms C and Mr Ds policy covers the loss of personal belongings whilst they are on a 
trip. And Mr D lost his backpack whilst they were on a trip. 
Ms C and Mr D complied with the policy condition requiring them to report the loss of 
the backpack to the police within 24 hours. 
Mr D has provided a credible explanation for why he didnt include all the items that 
were in his backpack when he reported the loss of it to the police originally and when 
he registered his claim. So, I think hes done enough to establish he and Ms C have 
a valid claim under their policy with AWP for the items in the backpack when it was 
lost. 
So I dont think AWP should have refused to pay for all the items Ms C and Mr D 
claimed for other than the backpack. So I think AWP should settle Ms C and Mr Ds 
claim for the remaining items.
As AWPs unfair decision to turn down the claim has left Ms C and Mr D without 
funds they should have had, AWP should pay interest on any amount due to them. 
This should be from the date AWP turned down the claim, as this is when they 
should have settled it.  
Putting things right
AWP should settle Ms C and Mr Ds claim for the remaining items in Mr Ds backpack when 
it was lost in accordance with the claims settlement terms in the policy. 
AWP should also pay interest on any amount due to Ms C and Mr D at 8% per annum 
simple from the date they turned down the claim until the date of actual payment. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. AWP must give Ms C and Mr D a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if they ask them for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms C and Mr Ds complaint about AWP P&C SA and order 
them to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman