DRN-3994980
The complaint
The directors of a small business complain about advice and products sold to them by 
Lloyds Bank PLC over the last 30 years or so. 
What happened
I see a lots been written about the directors history with Lloyds. I want to thank everyone for 
their time and effort doing that. It tells me that everyone is familiar with the background of the 
case. So Im going to focus this decision on just the details that have led me to it. 
This complaint seems  in part at least  to be prompted by the directors awareness of 
issues in the sale by various banks of payment protection insurance (PPI) products. The 
directors have described how they feel the way Lloyds sold them loans, overdrafts and 
protection policies was driven by its own interests, not giving enough regard to their needs.
Lloyds split the complaints based on the products that were being complained about. This 
investigation and decision relates to the non-PPI products. On these, Lloyds felt their service 
had been reasonable. So they didnt uphold the complaint. 
The directors brought the complaint to us and one of our investigators has looked at it. In 
summary, they found the products sold did provide benefits to the directors for the most part. 
Some life assurance policies would have given either director the money needed to buy the 
others share of the company from their estate if they died. And some critical illness policies 
would have helped the company keep going if either of the directors became ill.
Our investigator couldnt see any independent evidence supporting what the directors had 
said about Lloyds bullying and pressuring them into taking these products. And he found the 
commission paid for the products had been relatively low and disclosed at the time  quite 
different to the PPI case the directors referred to in their complaint. 
Our investigator did though find issues with some of the products. He felt two life policies 
sold in 2003 to cover a loan should have been a joint policy with two lives assured, paying 
out on the first death. And he felt a life policy sold in 2008 had a sum assured higher than 
needed, because Lloyds hadnt properly considered an existing life policy. Our investigator 
also felt a recommendation in 2011 to cancel and replace some policies wasnt justified by 
the limited extra benefits the new policies provided. 
To put these issues right, our investigator said Lloyds should calculate what would have 
been payable for the more suitable alternatives, and then refund any positive difference to 
the directors. He also said simple interest should be added to any refund, at 8%. 
Lloyds responded, saying they accepted the conclusion for the 2003 policies. They noted 
thered have been a saving of £1.52 per month if a more suitable policy had been set up. 
On the 2008 policies, Lloyds accepted theyd not properly considered the existing life cover. 
But they noted that if they had, their advice would have included a recommendation for more 
critical illness cover. The overall cost of that would then have been more than was paid. On 
the 2011 policies, Lloyds repeated what the benefits of having the replacement policies 
were. They felt this should be considered more. 
Our investigator revisited their view and made some changes. He accepted that different 
cover would likely have been taken out in 2008 had Lloyds not made the mistake that they 
had. And given Lloyds had said the cost of this alternative cover would have been more than 
what was actually paid, he didnt feel any remedy should be given for Lloyds mistake. Our 
investigator also accepted what Lloyds had said about the benefits of the 2011 policies, and 
changed his view to say the advice to have these had been reasonable after all. 
After some further discussion with our investigator, the directors said they didnt accept this 
gave a fair outcome to their complaint. They reiterated that their chief concern was the way 
Lloyds had treated them over the years. They felt that without that being accepted, their 
complaint was unfairly weakened. They asked for an ombudsmans decision for the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the conclusions reached by our investigator provide a fair 
outcome to this complaint. Ill briefly explain my reasoning. 
Ill start with the directors comments in response to our investigator. I can see theyve given 
their account of their interactions with Lloyds over the last 30 years or so. While I accept 
thats a form of evidence, its not independent. For that, I look to the documents produced at 
the time. Although these were written by Lloyds, they were written before any complaint was 
made. That makes it less likely theyve been produced to support a particular position in the 
complaint, and more likely they simply record what happened at the time. 
Those documents show me Lloyds met with the directors over the years. They got to know 
them and their business. They recommended  rather than insisting on  protection 
products. And the benefits of the products were chosen to match up to the directors needs. 
Theres nothing in the correspondence to show Lloyds were threatening or otherwise forcing 
the directors to have these products. Indeed, there were occasions where the directors didnt 
take the products Lloyds had recommended. And the length of time this relationship seems 
to have gone on speaks to it being satisfactory at the time to the directors. So  although the 
directors feel it weakens their whole complaint  I dont uphold the part of the complaint 
about the way Lloyds treated them in their interactions. 
Looking then at the products sold to the directors, I can see our investigator has 
systematically listed what these were and what they were intending to achieve. Ive followed 
that structure here. And Ive looked through the various documents from the time, and the 
comments from both sides about them. Ive found the following of note:
Life cover sold in 1990 would have helped the directors pay business debts secured 
against their homes. Thats a clear benefit for the directors, and makes having the 
policies suitable. Life cover in 1995 appears to have helped further protect the 
directors from any business failure that might follow one of the directors dying. 
Critical illness cover sold to them in 1995 also protected the ongoing operation of the 
business if either director became ill. Again, the benefits for the directors in having 
these policies speaks to their suitability, and their sale being reasonable. Objectives look to have changed in 2000. The recommendations  and the use of a 
business assurance trust  seem aimed at keeping the business running if either 
director died or got ill. The personal liability each director had for the businesss debts 
seems less important to the decision making. 
This reflects the idea that the risk of the business completely failing was lower, and 
that with the support of new policies it could continue to run with one director. Given 
the busines had been established for over 10 years at this point, that seems a 
reasonable consideration for Lloyds to use when advising the directors. 
The life policies sold in 2000 replaced those from earlier, but now provided money to 
the businesss trust instead of the directors personally. The amount theyd pay out 
was suited to the valuation Lloyds had made of the business. 
While this valuation and the ones that followed are now disputed by the directors, it 
appears Lloyds based their calculations on their understanding of the business as it 
was at the time. There wasnt a set formula Lloyds had to use to value a business. 
And it seems from later correspondence that the valuation was open to discussion if 
the directors considered it wasnt right. As such, I find the valuations used throughout 
have been arrived at reasonably. 
The critical illness cover recommended in 2000 seems in keeping with the aim of 
keeping the business running if something happened to one of the directors. Its value 
wouldnt have allowed the ill directors share to be purchased. But I can see it would 
have helped with any costs that arose when running the business without their input. 
As such, it seems it served a purpose, and was reasonable to recommend. 
The level of cover also seems to reflect the directors view on how much critical 
illness cover would be enough for them. In 2002 the directors didnt take a 
recommendation to have a higher level of cover. 
Decreasing term assurance sold in 2003 appears to have been to cover a loan 
whose value matched the sum assured under the policy. As such, this cover only 
needed to pay out once, on the death of either director, as that would pay off the 
loan. A joint-lives-first-death style policy would have achieved that better than the two 
single policies Lloyds sold. 
There are a couple of issues with the recommendations in 2008. Our investigator 
discussed these at length. But essentially, Lloyds have recommended too much life 
cover for the director share purchasing objective, and not enough cover for the key 
person cover objective. 
Had Lloyds made more reasonable recommendations, I accept that they would have 
advised a lesser amount of life cover and a greater amount of life and critical illness 
cover to the directors. 
Given the documents from the time show the directors accepted £100,000 worth of 
life and critical illness cover at the time, its reasonable to conclude theyd have 
chosen that figure if the service had been more reasonable. 
I accept Lloyds confirmation that cover at that level would have cost more than the 
directors actually paid. So although I can see Lloyds didnt give suitable 
recommendations in 2008, this hasnt caused a financial detriment to the directors. 
The increase in the valuation of the business in 2011 led to further life assurance policies being recommended. I can see this was in keeping with the earlier objective 
to have money available to purchase a deceased directors share of the company if 
needed. So the recommendation to have further life cover was reasonable.
I can see our investigator considered whether replacing existing cover was the right 
approach. I find that recommendation was reasonable in this case. The new policies 
allowed extra benefits to be chosen that suited the directors needs in 2011, rather 
than continuing with what had been chosen in 2000. 
Putting things right
Since being purchased, there havent been any claims against the policies. This can be the 
nature of insurance  a customer pays for cover they never need to use. But it means that 
any errors in the policies havent affected the value paid out under a claim. And it means I 
only need to consider any extra cost that the directors have had to pay because of 
something unreasonable in Lloyds actions. 
The only part of the complaint Ive upheld that appears to create a loss for the directors is 
the use of two single policies where one joint policy would have done. I can see Lloyds have 
told us a joint policy would have cost £1.52 less per month than what was actually sold. So 
this extra cost  from 2003 to the end of that cover  should be reimbursed to the directors. 
To reflect they havent been able to use that money during that time, Im also directing 
Lloyds to pay simple interest at 8% on that amount. Tax may be payable on that. If so, 
Lloyds should provide a summary of whats been calculated and paid to the directors, so 
they can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold one aspect of the directors complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. To put 
that right, Lloyds should carry out the remedy Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the directors to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman