DRN-4034992
The complaint
Mr K complains about the response of MBNA Limited to his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. He says that he and his wife were misled about a timeshare 
arrangement and that, because he paid using his MBNA credit card, he has a claim against 
it in the same way as he would against the timeshare company. Mr K has been represented 
in bringing this complaint, and where I refer to his submissions and evidence, I include those 
made on his behalf.     
What happened
Mr K bought a timeshare in Florida in 2007. He says that he was led to believe that, should 
he wish to sell it, the process would be straightforward. When he decided to do so in 2009, 
however, the resort refused to buy back the timeshare units. Instead, Mr K was persuaded to 
exchange his timeshare for two different units. 
In 2011 Mr K again tried to sell his timeshare units. Again, he says that the resort refused to 
buy them back but instead advised him to exchange the units, which he did. 
In or around March 2018 Mr K contacted MBNA to say that he had a claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act. He said that the timeshare had been misrepresented to him. As 
well as being told that he would be able to sell the timeshare, he was led to believe that 
maintenance and other fees would be minimal, that holidays would be cheaper than booking 
holidays elsewhere, and that the purchase would be an investment. 
Mr K also said that the actions of the timeshare company meant that the credit facility he had 
with MBNA created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act. 
MBNA declined Mr Ks claim. It said that any claim against the timeshare company would be 
out of time. It had been brought more than six years after the contract or contracts had been 
made. 
Mr K complained about the response to the claim and referred the matter to this service. In 
doing so, he added that he did not think that MBNA had properly assessed whether he could 
afford to repay the money he had borrowed to finance the timeshare arrangements. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld. Mr K did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case  although he 
did not provide any additional evidence or arguments.  
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
MBNAs records indicate that Mr K made three credit card payments to the timeshare 
business  in August 2009, September 2009 and May 2011. The documentation evidencing 
Mr Ks dealings with the timeshare business is, however, very limited indeed. It appears that 
he was able to assign the timeshare units in 2014, but otherwise the evidence of what 
happened is largely limited to Mr Ks own recollection of events. That too is not very specific. 
For example, he says that he was told maintenance fees would be minimal but has provided 
no evidence of what they were. Similarly, he says he was told that holidays would be 
cheaper than the alternatives, but again there is no evidence of what he spent or any 
comparison with the cost of similar holidays.
 Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. It seems 
likely that such arrangements were in place here. I have therefore considered what the 
position might be if Mr K were to bring a claim against the timeshare company.  
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr K into contracts in 
August/September 2009 and May 2011 were made on or before the dates of those 
contracts. Since Mr K had owned a timeshare since 2007, its possible that he relied on what 
he had been told and his own experiences even before that. He did not however raise any 
claim under section 75 until March 2018, nearly seven years after the last card payment. I 
think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation 
was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
I have set out the position under English law, but it is likely that the contracts here were 
governed by the laws of Florida. If there is any material difference between the two, it is 
open to the parties to draw my attention to it in their responses to this provisional decision. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act or any similar rules in Florida. Rather, I must decide whether the response 
of MBNA to the claim under section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court 
would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether an agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can consider any linked agreement; that might include Mr Ks 
agreement or agreements with the timeshare company, to the extent that they were funded 
by a credit card payment.  
The credit agreement in this case was Mr Ks agreement under which MBNA provided him 
with a credit card. That agreement did not come about because of the timeshare agreement 
or agreements. It was already in existence, and Mr K continued to use it to make other 
payments. 
As I noted above, the information about the timeshare agreements is very limited. The initial 
purchase agreement in 2007 does not appear to have been funded by MBNA. In the 
circumstances, I am not persuaded that a court would conclude that the credit card 
agreement created an unfair relationship between MBNA and Mr K.
Only a court can decide if an agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A, 
and only a court can make an order under section 140B. I must however take those 
provisions into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I have done that but believe 
it is unlikely that a court would be minded to uphold a claim under section 140A in this case.       
Affordability
Mr K says that MBNA did not properly assess whether he could afford to repay the money 
he borrowed. He has cited CONC, the part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook 
that deals with consumer credit. That did not come into force until after the events 
complained of here, although credit providers were expected to carry out affordability 
assessments even before that. In the case of a credit card facility, however, that assessment 
is made when a credit provider sets or changes the credit limit. There is no information in 
this case about when that limit may have been set or changed. Further, Mr K has not 
explained when or if he found out that he was having difficulty making payments. Nor has he 
explained why he did not raise the issue with MBNA sooner. It is likely however that we have 
no power to consider this part of the complaint, since it was raised more than six years after 
Mr Ks credit limit was set at the level which applied in 2009 and 2011.   
I concluded, provisionally at least, that I should not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Neither MBNA nor Mr K had anything to add in response to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have been provided with no further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to reach a 
conclusion which differs from that set out above. 
I would add only one point to my comments on the assessments which MBNA carried out (or 
did not carry out) before setting Mr Ks credit limit. Even if I were to take the view that this is 
a matter which this service can consider (perhaps because Mr K was not aware at the time 
of the nature and extent of the checks required), I would not uphold this element of his 
complaint. As I indicated in my provisional decision, there is no evidence that Mr K was 
having difficulty making payments. That indicates either that proper checks were carried out 
or that, if they had been, the credit limit is likely to have been set at the same or a similar 
level in any event, such that Mr Ks position would not have been any different.      My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require MBNA Limited to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman