The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way FINSA Europe Ltd (trading as Core Spreads) opened her 
spread betting account. She says it ought to have made her trade using a demo account 
before risking her money. Shes also unhappy that it didnt disclose the relationship between 
it and the host of a trading workshop she attended.
What happened
Mrs W paid for and attended a trading workshop provided by an unregulated company Ill 
call A. At the conclusion of the workshop, she opened a spread betting account with Core 
Spreads. Mrs W proceeded to trade on her account, making losses of around £15,000.
Mrs W complained. She said she shouldnt have been allowed to open a live account and 
risk her money. She said shed been persuaded to open an account by A, and that as A 
received payments from Core Spreads there was a conflict of interest. She said the strategy 
A suggested she employ was doomed to failure. She further said that Core Spreads 
exploited a conflict of interest given it stood to profit from her losing trades.
Core Spreads didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it didnt pay commission to A 
for clients it referred. It said Mrs W had given it enough information to be satisfied a spread 
betting account was appropriate for her. And from then on she transacted with it on an 
execution only basis and was responsible for her own trading decisions. It said that as a 
matched principal spread betting firm, it took no market risk against its clients positions and 
therefore didnt profit from her losing bets.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She agreed that the spread betting 
account was appropriate for Mrs W, and that it was reasonable for Core Spreads to have 
allowed her to trade straight away without ensuring she use a demo account first. She found 
that there was a financial link between Core Spreads and A  it paid a fixed fee for marketing 
its platform  but didnt consider Core Spreads was responsible for Mrs Ws trading 
decisions, or her subsequent losses.
The investigator concluded that Core Spreads should have disclosed the payment it made to 
A when Mrs W asked, and recommended it pay her £250 to say sorry for the distress that 
caused. But she didnt think it was fair for Core Spreads to refund the cost of the workshop 
Mrs W attended, or any of her trading losses.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. She said we hadnt 
looked deeply enough into the relationship between Core Spreads and A, or how many 
clients A referred to Core Spreads. She maintained that she considered Core Spreads had 
an incentive for her to trade unsuccessfully and profited from her losses.
DRN-1688824What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two distinct parts to this complaint  the opening of Mrs Ws account, and the 
relationship between Core Spreads and A.
Core Spreads doesnt offer advice, and Mrs W approached it asking to carry out spread 
betting trading. Given the complex and high risk nature of spread betting, the regulator 
requires firms, before allowing someone to trade, to assess whether such trading is 
appropriate for them.
Specifically, Core Spreads needed to gather enough information about Mrs Ws relevant 
knowledge and experience to decide whether it considered she was able to understand the 
risks that spread betting would expose her to.
Ive looked at the application Mrs W filled out. She said shed traded forex or futures 
sometimes and spread betting sometimes. She also said shed attended a relevant 
training course. 
So Mrs W said she had some experience trading leveraged products and had attended a 
relevant course. Core Spreads says that this led it to conclude Mrs W had enough 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks of spread betting. I think it was 
reasonable for it to have reached this conclusion and therefore to have said the account was 
appropriate for Mrs W.
Given it had found the account to be appropriate, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
for it to let Mrs W trade straight away, either. As it was satisfied she was able to understand 
the risk, I see no reason Core Spreads should have prevented her trading a live account if 
thats what she had asked to do. 
Mrs W has questioned the relationship between Core Spreads and the company running the 
trading workshop she attended, A. Core Spreads says it pays A a fixed fee as a marketing 
consultant. It appears that A then promotes Core Spreads platform when those attending its 
courses choose to open spread betting accounts.
I dont think theres anything wrong in Core Spreads paying a company to promote its 
products. Im not persuaded that means Core Spreads accepts responsibility for everything 
that company does or the strategies it discusses with clients. Ive seen nothing to suggest A 
in any way held itself out as representing Core Spreads or acting with its authority.
So Im not persuaded this relationship is a reason to hold Core Spreads responsible for Mrs 
Ws losses. Anything A told her about trading or the strategies she should employ are a 
matter between Mrs W and A, not Core Spreads. Mrs W was clearly keen to trade. Had Core 
Spreads disclosed that it had a commercial relationship with A, then Mrs W might have 
chosen a different platform. But even if it had, Im not persuaded it would have resulted in 
her trading differently. So I dont think it would be fair for Core Spreads to refund her losses.
Core Spreads is a matched principal trading platform. This means it carries out hedging 
transactions when its clients trade, on a one-to-one basis. The nature of its FCA permissions 
at the time of Mrs Ws trading restricted it from trading on its own account. So Im satisfied 
that Core Spreads didnt stand to profit from Mrs Ws losses. Given its source of revenue 
was from the commission shed pay on each trade, if anything its incentive was for her to trade more. So overall Im not persuaded Core Spreads has exploited conflicts of interest in 
order to profit at Mrs Ws expense  in its own right or through its relationship with A.
However I agree with our investigator that Core Spreads was unclear and misleading when 
Mrs W asked about whether it paid A for referring her as a client. It said it didnt, and while 
strictly true (it paid a fixed fee rather than a per client referral commission) I think it was clear 
Mrs W was asking whether a relationship between the two companies existed. Im satisfied 
that pursuing answers to this and the doubt it cast in Mrs Ws mind about Core Spreads 
answers was troubling to her, and that £250 is fair compensation for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint. FINSA Europe Ltd (trading as Core 
Spreads) must pay Mrs W £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman