DRN-1166227
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the valuation Covea Insurance plc paid for his car when he 
made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R made a claim to his insurer. Covea in May 2019. Covea said it would settle Mr Rs 
claim by paying him the market value for his car as it wasnt economical to repair it. The final 
valuation was £12,640. 
Mr R said this wasnt enough to replace his car with a similar one. But Covea didnt uphold 
his complaint. It said it had correctly valued his car based on the policys definition of market 
value.
So Mr R asked us to look at things for him.
Our investigator thought Covea had reached its valuation in line with the policy and so he 
didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree. Hes unhappy with the method Covea has used in deciding a valuation for 
his car. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached is valuation in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mr Rs policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value for his car. 
Covea defines the term market value as; the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the 
same make, model, specification, year, mileage and condition.
Mr R says hes unhappy with the definition of what constitutes a market value. Having 
previously been in the motor trade, he said that the shortfall he had to find to buy a 
replacement car was around 20%. He said this is the difference he would find between the 
trade guide and the retail guide. 
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the most reliable way of 
deciding valuation is to look at the main motor trade guides. They provide retail transacted 
values as well as trade valuations. The retail transacted valuations are based on national 
research and provide likely selling prices for a similar car that Mr R  or anyone  might buy 
from a retail garage. This is the figure we rely on when we check the guides to see if an 
insurer has acted reasonably. 
We find advertised prices are generally less reliable. This is because they vary widely and 
tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the price down. 
Taking into account the guides Covea used, we were able to obtain a further valuation from 
an additional motor guide. The average retail transacted valuation figure from all of the 
available guides comes to £12,496 for a car like Mr Rs in the month of loss. 
As Coveas final settlement sum was £12,640, it was within the range of the guides and a 
little higher than the average. So I dont think Covea has acted unreasonably. 
I understand Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I think 
Covea dealt with his claim fairly and in line with the policy. This means Im not asking it to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman