DRN-3539353
The complaint
Mr P complains about a delay in transferring his Individual Savings Account (ISA) to 
Nationwide Building Society.
Mr P has also raised a complaint against the other business. This is considered in a 
separate decision.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr P attempted to transfer an ISA held with another building society (S) to 
Nationwide. He completed the paperwork, but the transfer didnt go through.
Nationwide says it presented the transfer request to S twice, but it was rejected under the 
reason account not found. After a third attempt, the transfer request was accepted, and the 
funds were moved to Nationwide in October 2021.
Mr P raised a complaint with Nationwide. He had received conflicting information from S and 
was unsure who was at fault.
Nationwide said it hadnt made an error with the ISA transfer. But it offered Mr P £125 as an 
apology for issues with the customer service it had provided, which Mr P accepted.
However, Mr P remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaints against 
both businesses.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaints but wasnt able to establish who was 
responsible for the error. He didnt think Mr P had lost out because Nationwide had 
backdated the transfer to April 2021 and had applied the interest that would have 
accumulated to the account. He thought the £125 Nationwide had paid Mr P for distress and 
inconvenience was fair. So, he didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything further.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He said the £125 was paid to his wife because 
Nationwide had accused her of filling out the forms wrong when shed been dealing with the 
issue on his behalf. He was unhappy that our investigator wasnt able to say which business 
was at fault for the error. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate Mr P would like to know who is responsible for the delay in his ISA transfer. 
Clearly, something went wrong. But I can only make a finding based on the information that 
is available to me. Ive considered what has been provided by both businesses and I havent 
seen anything that conclusively tells me who is responsible.
Nationwide has provided us with screenshots and notes which suggest that it previously sent 
the transfer request across to S and it was rejected. But the screenshots of Nationwides 
systems arent clear enough for me to conclusively say that Nationwide sent the request 
across correctly. So, I cant rule out something having gone wrong on Nationwides side. 
Our services role is to direct a business to put things right if we think its done something 
wrong. So, while I cant say with certainty that the error is with Nationwide, Ive considered 
the impact on Mr P.
Nationwide has backdated the transfer to April 2021 and has applied interest accordingly. I 
understand that S charged Mr P a penalty of around £21 because of the delay in transferring 
the funds. So, its possible that Nationwide is responsible for Mr P incurring a small financial 
loss.
However, Nationwide has paid Mr P compensation of £125 and I think this is a reasonable 
amount to put things right. Mr P has commented that Nationwides payment of £125 was to 
compensate his wife. However, Nationwides letter offering compensation is addressed to  
Mr P. While, it says it would also like to apologise to Mrs P for being told she was wrong, Im 
satisfied that the £125 was intended to compensate Mr P.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr P, but I dont require Nationwide to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman