DRN-3898656
The complaint
Mr W complains about the customer service he was given by Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited (AA) when trying to upgrade his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
On 31 August 2022 Mr W called AA to upgrade his roadside assistance policy. Mr W found 
there was a lot of background noise making it difficult for him to concentrate. He was asked 
to key in his debit card details to pay for the upgrade and was told by the Duty Manager hed 
entered his expiry date for his card when he said he hadnt. He says he was told to take a 
chance and enter his security code, but Mr W didnt feel that was financially responsible and 
that it was possibly deception, so he didnt. 
AA said it was clear from the outset of the conversation Mr W was having some difficulties 
hearing their customer services adviser and that he believed the background noise was 
excessive. They said she spoke slower and louder in an effort to help Mr W hear her. And, 
when it came to the payment he said he couldnt concentrate so asked to speak to a 
manager to log a complaint.
AA said the Duty Manager came on the phone and correctly told Mr W the adviser couldnt 
move to a quieter location because she needed to be in front of her computer which was 
fixed to the desk. He said sorry for the noise, but some noise was inevitable in a call centre. 
AA said Mr W found this explanation to be ridiculous and made some personal comments 
about the Duty Managers ability to do his job. Following this Mr W was told what he needed 
to do to upgrade the cover, and after inputting the long debit card number he was told to 
enter the expiry date. AA said Mr W did do this, as evidenced by the screen capture of the 
recording  but Mr W didnt believe he had entered the details. But because Mr W didnt 
enter his security code, his cover wasnt upgraded. Overall, AA didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr W asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
found AA had tried to help Mr W, so she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr W disagreed with this, and in summary said:
His personal financial security is important to him, and he wasnt going to allow AA to 
compromise it
He was poorly directed by two advisers which meant he couldnt carry out the 
transaction
The situation he found himself in wasnt conducive to good business practice  with 
the first adviser there was background noise, and the second said hed entered his 
card expiry date when he hadnt
He wasnt told that his policy became active by virtue of calling
On numerous occasions hes sought confirmation the policy is active, but the AA 
havent replied to his request
As there was a time limit of 14 days to do the upgrade, hes no longer able to do this
After receiving confirmation through our service the cover had been activated, Mr W also 
said as this formed part of the contract between him and AA, theyd broken the contract with 
him for not confirming the cover was active. AA also told our service, which we passed on to 
Mr W, that if he wanted to upgrade his cover he still could.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr W had with AA. At the start of the call Mr W does express 
concerns about background noise. In listening to the call I can hear the adviser saying sorry, 
explaining shes in a call centre and she cant do much about the noise. She does also 
speak slower, and louder, in an effort to help Mr W hear her. Its unclear why Mr W wasnt 
able to fully make out what she was saying, but in listening to the call I havent found she 
was unclear, that the background noise was excessive, or that AA did anything wrong on this 
point.
Its clear from the call Mr W isnt happy he cant conduct the call in a quieter environment. 
But I find the explanation he was given on the phone about this to be fair  to complete the 
transaction, the advisers needed access to their computer. And they said the computers 
couldnt be moved. Ive seen no reason to question this, so given that I think AA have 
provided a clear explanation for why the adviser couldnt move to a quieter area.
In relation to the expiry date, the call recording shows 16 beeps when Mr W entered the long 
debit card number on his phone keypad  the beeps indicating when Mr W has entered each 
number. After he entered these details, he was asked to enter the expiry date with just the 
four numbers, no slash, and there are four beeps. This suggests the expiry date was entered 
 and in listening to the call its clear the Duty Manager thinks the expiry date has been 
entered. Mr W disagrees and says he didnt do this. I dont know why hes said that, but the 
evidence I have on the call suggests he did enter his details. Following this, Mr W was asked 
by the Duty Manager to try entering his security code from the back of his card  but Mr W 
chose not to. I think though given the expiry date had been entered based on what Ive 
heard, the Duty Manager gave Mr W the right information. Ultimately, the only reason the 
upgrade wasnt completed is because Mr W chose not to enter the security code. 
Overall then, Ive seen nothing to say AA have acted unfairly, so I wont be asking them to 
upgrade Mr Ws cover free of charge as hes asked.
Other issues
Mr W has also raised the following concerns:
He wasnt told the policy was activated as a result of his call with them
Hes asked for confirmation the policy was active multiple times, but hasnt had a 
reply
By not telling him the cover was active, theyve broken the contract they had with him
The complaint handling rules dont allow our service to consider a complaint before the 
financial business involved has had a chance to do so. This rule can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook at DISP 2.8.1 (2). The FCA is the financial 
services regulator and sets out the rules financial businesses and our service must follow.The above issues Mr W has raised arent ones that formed part of his original complaint. 
Because of that, I cant consider them under this complaint. Mr W will need to raise a new 
complaint to AA if he wishes for these issues to be considered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman