DRN-4205470
The complaint
Mr L complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) declined his claim and
cancelled his commercial motor insurance policy, following a fire.
What happened
Mr L explains he is in a partnership with a Mr M. The policy in Mr Ls name is for a catering
van that he drove, but was owned by Mr M. The van was subject to an arson attack. This
severely damaged the engine bay and cab. Mr L says the rear was unaffected. He contacted
Haven to make a claim and was offered a settlement payment based on the van being a
total loss. He disagreed with the offer, and this was subsequently increased.
Haven subsequently declined Mr Ls claim. It says had it known the vehicle had been
modified for use as a catering van, it wouldnt have offered cover. It paid Mr L £325 in
respect of the salvage value of the vehicle but refused to pay to cover Mr Ls losses.
Mr L complained but Haven didnt change its position. So, Mr L referred the matter to our
service. Our investigator says Mr L hadnt given Haven a fair presentation of the risk when
he applied for the policy, as he is required to do under the Insurance Act 2015. He says
Haven had provided its underwriting criteria that shows it wouldnt have offered cover had it
known about the modifications to the van.
Our investigator says in these circumstances the Insurance Act 2015 allows Haven to avoid
the policy and refuse all claims. He didnt think Mr L had acted recklessly or deliberately
when failing to provide a clear presentation of the risk. This meant Haven should refund all
premiums paid. However, as Haven didnt avoid the policy but chose to cancel it after the
loss event, this meant cover was in place when the loss occurred. Because of this he
thought Haven should settle the claim based on its previous settlement offer.
Our investigator says Haven shouldnt have disposed of the vehicle as this wasnt its
property. He accepted the modifications in the rear hadnt been shown to be damaged and
there was a significant value associated to these items. He says Haven should pay
£9,769.62 minus the salvage value (£325) to acknowledge this loss.
Haven disagreed with this outcome. It says it followed the remedies applicable to the
Insurance Act 2015 and it can cancel the policy and refuse to deal with the claim as per its
policy terms and conditions. Our investigator didnt change his mind, so Haven asked for an
ombudsman to consider Mr Ls complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Let me explain.
Mr L has a commercial insurance policy with Haven. The relevant law here for me to
consider is the Insurance Act 2015. Haven says it wasnt provided with accurate information
by Mr L when he took out his policy. Had it been provided with accurate information it says it
wouldnt have offered cover.
Under the Act before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured must give a fair
presentation of the risk to the insurer. This is known as the duty of fair presentation. This
means:
(a) disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know, or
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those
material circumstances.
The information Mr L provided to Haven stated he was a housekeeper and that he worked in
the health care sector. This was confirmed in the policy documentation that was provided to
him. However, the insured van was being used as a catering business and had been
modified as such. Referring to the requirements of the Insurance Act 2015, I dont think Mr L
made a fair presentation of the risk when the policy was taken out.
I need to consider what Haven would have done differently had it known the insured vehicle
was being used as a catering van. The business has supplied its underwriting criteria, which
shows no cover wouldve been offered to Mr L had he provided accurate information about
the van, and its intended use. Havens underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. So, I
cant share it. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Haven wouldnt have offered cover.
In these circumstances the Insurance Act 2015 provides certain remedies. If the qualifying
breach was reckless or deliberate the insurer can avoid the policy, refuse all claims and
need not return the premiums. If it was neither deliberate nor reckless the insurer can avoid
the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return the premiums.
Haven confirms it has retained Mr Ls premiums. But it hasnt shown why it considers the
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. Mr L explains that he applied for insurance
online using a price comparison site. The van was registered in his business partners name.
But he only had a provisional licence, which is why Mr L was going to be driving the van.
From what hes said I think its more likely that Mr L failed to make a fair presentation of the
risk posed in error, rather than deliberately or recklessly.
An important point here is that Haven didnt avoid the policy in line with the remedies set out
in the Act. Instead, it says it cancelled it with immediate effect from when it became aware of
the misrepresentation. This was after the loss event had occurred. As discussed, this means
the policy was in force at the time of the loss. In light of this I dont think Haven has treated
Mr L fairly. And it should consider his claim under the terms and conditions of his policy.
For clarity my decision isnt that Haven needs to settle Mr Ls claim. But it does need to
consider it and explain whether it intends to settle the claim or not and provide its reasons for
this. If Mr L disagrees with Havens decision, he can of course raise a complaint. If he
remains dissatisfied with Havens response, he has the option of contacting our service.
Ive thought about Mr Ls comments that the vehicle contained a number of modifications inthe rear to allow it to be used as a catering van. He says the fire damage was contained to
the engine bay and the cab, with the rear section remaining undamaged. Mr L says the rear
of the van couldve been removed from the cab section. He also says the catering equipment
in the rear was worth £9,769.62.
Our investigator asked Haven to comment on Mr Ls concerns about the salvage value of the
vehicle. It responded to say the vehicle was badly damaged and judged to be a category B
total loss. It disposed of the salvage to mitigate costs. Haven says it wasnt in a position to
confirm the value of cooking equipment but indicated that fire damaged equipment wouldnt
be worth much.
Mr L has supplied information to show the equipment that was installed in the van and how
much this cost. In total this comes to £9,769.62.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage taken at the storage facility used by Haven. The
engine bay and cab of the van are severely damaged as a result of the fire. But I cant
identify any damage to the rear. No photos inside the rear of the van have been provided.
So, its not possible from this to determine if damage had occurred. Based on the available
information the interior of the rear section of the van wasnt inspected.
Given the extensive damage caused by the fire, I dont think Haven behaved unreasonably
when relying on its engineers assessment that the van was a category-B total loss. Where
an insurer has paid a claim, it will become the owner of the vehicle and seek to recover
some of its costs by selling the salvage. However, it didnt settle Mr Ls claim. Haven didnt
own the salvage and by disposing of it, its deprived Mr L and his business partner of the
opportunity to recover the equipment inside.
The vans salvage has been disposed of so this cannot be returned to Mr L. In these
circumstances I think its fair that Haven pays Mr L the value of this equipment based on the
costing he has supplied. For clarity my intention is that Haven should pay Mr L £9,769.62.
In summary I dont think Haven treated Mr L fairly. It should consider his claim and confirm
the outcome to him and pay £9,769.62 in relation to the salvageable equipment it disposed
of.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and Haven should:
consider Mr Ls claim; and
pay Mr L £9,769.62 for the equipment it disposed of.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr L responded to confirm he accepted my provisional decision. 
Haven responded to highlight the following endorsement from its policy:
Vehicle Modifications
Costs of any modifications from the manufacturers original model are excluded in the event 
of accident, total loss, vehicle theft and/or malicious damage.
Haven says this used when making the decision to reject the claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Havens reference to the vehicle modification endorsement. This doesnt 
impact on my decision that it should consider Mr Ls claim. Haven cancelled the policy after 
the loss occurred. As the policy was in force at the time of the loss it must consider the claim 
under its policy terms and conditions. 
I acknowledge the policy endorsement Haven has highlighted. This confirms the cost of any 
modifications are excluded in the event of a total loss. I dont disagree with what it says. But 
Haven disposed of equipment that wasnt its property. This resulted in a loss for Mr L and it 
should reimburse him for this. 
Having considered all of this, Im not persuaded by Havens further comments that a change 
to my provisional decision is warranted. This will now become my final decision, for the 
reasons set out here and in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should:
consider Mr Ls claim; and
pay Mr L £9,769.62 for the equipment it disposed of. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman