DRN-3073672
The complaint
Mr M complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG). His complaint relates to 
DGs rejection of a claim he made under his household warranty policy, relating to a TV.
References to DG include its agents who assess claims under the policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a TV in 2019 and took out an extended warranty policy with DG. The policy 
came into effect after the expiry of the manufacturers one-year warranty. The policy covered 
mechanical or electrical breakdown. In May 2021 Mr M contacted DG to make a claim under 
the policy, as a crack had appeared in the screen of his TV.
 
DG considered the claim but declined it. This was based on the view of their repair agent (A) 
that inspected the TV and said that the crack had been caused by the way the TV had been 
set up with the stand and brackets causing the TV to lean forward resulting in pressure on 
the screen (which led to the crack). There was some confusion between different DG call 
handlers which led Mr M to think that the damage would be covered under his policy, but DG 
subsequently reviewed the circumstances of the claim and confirmed their rejection.
Mr M was unhappy at his claim being rejected and complained to DG, who didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response, DG again referred to As view on the cause of the crack. 
As Mr Ms policy provided cover for mechanical and electrical breakdown only (accidental 
damage wasnt covered under the policy) DG confirmed the rejection of the claim because 
the crack didnt result from a mechanical or electrical breakdown of the TV itself.
 
Mr M was unhappy at DGs response and complained to this service. The main element of 
his complaint was that DG shouldnt have declined his claim, the crack hadnt been caused 
by accidental damage (as DG had implied).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator thought that on balance, based 
on the views of the repair agents, the crack in the TV was due to it leaning forward over time 
and the result of how it had been set up. He concluded that DG hadnt acted unreasonably in 
declining Mr Ms claim and theyd applied the terms of the policy fairly.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Mr M didnt agree that the way the TV had been set up led to the crack and that 
he had set it up correctly. He also disagreed that this was the view of the repair agents or 
DG, as in his view the crack was caused by a mechanical breakdown and a faulty 
component (not accidental damage) and therefore should be covered under his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DG has acted fairly towards Mr M.
The key issue in Mr Ms complaint is that DG have wrongly declined his claim for the crack in 
his TV screen. His view is that the crack was the result of a mechanical breakdown (or a 
faulty component) and therefore it should have been covered under his policy. He also 
maintains that the crack wasnt caused by an incorrect set up of the TV (he says he set it up 
correctly in accordance with the manufacturers instructions) nor the result of accidental 
damage. For their part, DG maintain that the crack wasnt the result of either mechanical or 
electrical breakdown, but from the TV leaning forward leading to pressure from the stand 
and brackets that caused the crack.
Its important to note that we arent engineers or claims assessors. We consider the 
evidence available, including from any relevant experts, in coming to a view on what has 
happened, based on the balance of probabilities. Ive carefully considered the evidence and 
views put forward by both Mr M and by DG. Ive also considered the views of the repair 
agent (A) about what they consider caused the crack. In an email from A to Mr M, they state:
We have closely examined this unit [the TV] and can see that the stand and stand 
brackets are required as well as the screen as they are causing the screen to lean 
forward which is putting stress onto the bottom of the screen especially in the corners 
which has caused the reported crack to appear.
Mr M maintains that he set up the TV correctly and the damage was caused by a mechanical 
breakdown or faulty component. However, given their experience of repairing TVs as well as 
the fact they examined the TV, then Im more persuaded by As view. While A provided their 
opinion as DGs repair agent, I also noted that the DG case notes include reference (as part 
of their consideration of Mr Ms claim) to views from two other technical contacts. While they 
didnt examine the TV, they did comment that in their experience the crack was likely to have 
arisen from either impact damage [to the screen] or from stress on the frame. The former 
would imply some form of accidental damage (which the policy didnt cover). The latter 
would be consistent with As view.
Ive also considered these points against the terms and conditions of the policy. While the 
policy refers to mechanical or electrical breakdown the terms isnt specifically defined. But 
given the views of A and the technical contacts about the most likely cause of the crack, I 
dont think that either could be considered mechanical or electrical breakdown as either term 
might reasonably be interpreted. Ive concluded they wouldnt be covered under the policy.
 
On the point about accidental damage perhaps being the cause, Mr M maintains that the TV 
suffered no accidental damage during the time that he had it and therefore wasnt the cause. 
For their part, DG refer to accidental damage being an exclusion under the policy and so 
wouldnt have been covered even had it been shown (or agreed) to be the cause. In the 
absence of any clear evidence to show accidental damage I havent considered this further.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that DG have acted reasonably and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy in declining Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman