DRN-2724062
The complaint
The estate of Mr H, represented here by Mrs H, complains that a number of annuities that 
her late husband took out with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
were mis sold. She says they were led to believe the annuities would pay her for five years 
after Mr Hs death but most of them ceased payments after he died in January 2020.
What happened
The late Mr H held a number of pensions with Prudential. In 1999 he wanted to encash one 
of his pensions but when he was told this wasnt possible and was provided with a quotation 
for an annuity, he chose to take the available tax free cash with a single life annuity 
guaranteed for 10 years. In 2002 a policy which had been set up to accept compensation 
from the original plan was also annuitised along the same lines.
 
Mr H made similar decisions in 2011 and 2012 after his other plans matured and he was 
contacted by Prudential with illustrations  although one of the plans was in respect of 
protected rights so it had to provide a 50% spouses pension guaranteed for five years. 
Unfortunately, Mr H died 20 January 2020. Mrs H then contacted Prudential to make it aware 
of his death and to ensure the pensions payments continued as she assumed they would be. 
However, Mrs H found that she didnt receive anything further from three of the annuities and 
the remaining annuity paid her around £25 per month. 
 
So on 2 March 2020 Mrs H spoke with Prudential again. She said she believed there was a 
facility within Mr Hs pensions which meant she would continue to be paid after she notified 
Prudential of his death. She said the policies had been mis sold as she wasnt receiving the 
benefits they both expected her to get. She said Mr H wouldnt have set up an annuity on a 
single life basis and she didnt think it was fair for the payments to simply stop on his death.
 
Prudential said it was unable to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about the annuities being mis sold 
 but it did accept it had provided poor service and paid £75 as compensation. It said that:
Three of four annuities that Mr H took out were up on a single life basis, so they 
didnt automatically pay Mrs H when Mr H died.
The fourth plan was in respect of protected rights benefits which automatically 
included a joint life option and is now being paid to Mrs H.
It didnt provide any financial advice to Mr H so theres no evidence to suggest it 
misled him.
The three single life annuities did include guarantee payment periods which 
unfortunately had ended before Mr H passed away. 
The guarantee period started when the annuities began not when Mr H died. There 
was no evidence to show Prudential had suggested otherwise.
It had delayed setting up Mrs Hs one remaining annuity for which it paid £75 
compensation.   
But Mrs H wasnt happy with the response, so she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter but said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that 
each annuity had been taken out by Mr H as a result of quotes being sent to him by 
Prudential setting out his options. So she didnt think Prudential had given Mr H any advice 
and that he was provided with the necessary information with which to make an informed 
choice. She also thought that Mr H had been given the option of including Mrs H as a joint 
life annuitant but hadnt chosen that option  except on the only plan that automatically 
included a joint life annuity and is now being paid to Mrs H.
  
She also thought the information that Mr H was provided with  specifically the key features 
document confirmed how the guarantee periods worked so she thought Mr H would have 
been aware of when they ended. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said the annuities were in her husbands name, so she was unsure 
where the remaining funds had gone following his death. And she said the annuities should 
have been paid to her for five or ten years after his death. She also questioned why 
Prudential couldnt pay the only existing annuity as a lump sum instead of a monthly amount 
 as it was affecting her entitlement to pension credits.
She was also unhappy about the length of time we had taken to provide an outcome and she 
said shed had to incur extra expense to provide documents to us that werent needed. She 
said this had caused her unnecessary stress and wanted her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
The investigator did however confirm that Prudential wasnt able to cancel the annuity and 
pay her a lump sum  which it was entitled to do as a legitimate commercial decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will disappoint Mrs H  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Were the annuities mis sold
Ive looked first at the circumstances in which the late Mr H took out the annuities with 
Prudential. Each were derived from personal type pensions where Mr H had a number of 
options when he came to draw his benefits. But if Mr H wanted to remain with Prudential, he 
had to convert the pensions to annuities after he withdrew any tax free cash he wanted. 
In each separate transaction I havent been presented with any evidence to suggest that 
Prudential gave Mr H any advice. It would seem that, on each occasion, he was sent 
illustrations which set out all the options available to him and asked him to return acceptance 
forms which indicated his choice. However, I do note that on the first occasion in 1999 Mr H 
approached Prudential to ask to encash his pension benefits. 
Unfortunately, at that time it wasnt possible to accommodate such a request and Prudential 
correctly advised Mr H that he needed to take his benefits as an income. However, I note 
that Mrs H has said that she and her late husband would have preferred to take the benefits 
as cash, so I can understand the approach Mr H was taking at that time. 
    
But Ive looked carefully at each document Prudential sent to Mr H and Im satisfied that his 
options were set out clearly. 
He was given a number of alternatives around how to draw his income, including tax free 
cash, and the option to transfer his benefits to another provider under the open market 
option. One of the other additional benefits was the opportunity to include a joint life option for a dependent and required him to complete the section to obtain further quotations. This 
was signposted within the quotation where it said, If you want to select a dependents 
pensionplease go to the your further pension options page of the form of selection.
So I think the option of a joint life annuity was highlighted clearly to Mr H and, while I know 
Mrs H has said he wouldnt have chosen a single life option under the circumstances, the 
evidence Ive seen shows that he did chose single life options in each case. And these 
options were confirmed by Prudential following Mr Hs response  as for example in 1999 it 
sent Mr H confirmation that hed chosen option 1, £559.27 tax free cash £96.96 income 
each year, payable half yearly in advance guaranteed for 10 years.
 
And in February 2012 Mr Hs choice was confirmed as £217.44 per annum- £1,090,61 tax 
free cash- guaranteed payment period 5 years- Dependents total yearly income noneif you 
die during this period your income will continue to be paid until the end of the guarantee 
period.
Within Prudentials Key Features Document (KFD) it confirmed one of its aims as being to 
give you the option to also provide a regular income for your spouse or dependents should 
you die before they do. So I think that Mr H was made aware, through references in a 
variety of literature, of the option of taking out a joint life annuity to ensure further protection 
for his wife in the event of his death. 
Unfortunately, I cant confirm why Mr H decided to tick the options that gave him single life 
pension. I note that the pensions were generally quite small, and it could have been that 
Mr H realised how much smaller a joint life pension would be and decided the better value lie 
in protecting his pension for a guaranteed period for a much smaller cost. And although I 
cant be sure of this, the pension that provided the greatest benefit already included a 50% 
spouses pension as it was derived from a protected rights fund.
 
But even if I am wrong with that thought, I cant reasonably say Prudential mis sold the 
policies as it would seem that its involvement was simply to make aware Mr H of his options 
and set the annuities up on the basis that he indicated in the application and acceptance 
forms.
But Mrs H says that the complaint about mis selling is also about the way the guarantee 
payment period worked. She said that it should have started from when Mr H died, not from 
when the annuity started  and thinks that isnt fair and that she and Mr H were misled. So 
Ive looked at the information that was provided about the guarantee payment period and 
how it worked.
The guarantee payment periods
The KFD set out how the guarantee period worked. It said your annuity can also include a 
guarantee that payment will be paid for a minimum period even if you were to die in the early 
years of the annuity. This can either be the payment of a lump sum or the continuation of 
your pension payments, following your death in the first 5 or, in some cases 10 years of the 
start of your annuity. 
 
So I think it was clear that, if included in the annuity, the guarantee period began from the 
date the annuity started. So, in Mr Hs case, five years and in one case 10 years after each 
different annuity came into force. This meant the end dates for the guarantees were 2009, 
2006 and 2016 which unfortunately were all before Mr H sadly died. 
So I dont think Prudential did anything wrong in ceasing payments on Mr Hs death because 
the guarantees had been included for the length of time Prudential said they would be. I know Mrs H says that she was led to believe that the guarantee period started at the date 
of Mr Hs death  but I havent been provided with any persuasive evidence to suggest that 
was the case. I have some sympathy for Mrs H in expecting payments to continue to be 
made to her for an extra five years, but I dont think Prudentials literature and general 
information has led to that expectation and I dont think it should have to extend the 
payments to Mrs H following her husbands death.
Payment of the existing monthly annuity as a lump sum
The KFD also set out how any annuity could be paid. It stated that your annuity can be paid 
monthly, quarterly, half yearly or annually and may be paid in arrears or in advance. It also 
said that you cant change your income options after youve chosen them at the start. So 
Prudential paid Mr H according to the instructions he gave it initially and has continued to 
pay Mrs H on that basis. This was further complicated because the one remaining annuity 
was based on a protected rights fund, which had different rules for providing a spouses 
pension. 
 
Unfortunately, there is no legislation which enforces a provider to substitute monthly 
payments for a lump sum alternative  no matter how beneficial it may seem for Mrs H in her 
current situation. So I cant reasonably tell Prudential to pay the remaining annuity to Mrs H 
as a lump sum  thats for Prudential to decide. I understand that Prudentials position is that 
it isnt going to substitute the annuity for a lump sum and thats a commercial decision its 
entitled to make. We wouldnt usually interfere in such decisions. 
Concerns with our service and the delays and costs 
  
Im satisfied that we followed our process to correctly establish eligibility to bring the 
complaint and eligibility to receive any compensation  if it were due. So, although I can 
understand Mrs Hs frustrations here, I think everything was done to ensure the complaint 
could be brought correctly and would be accepted by Prudential. 
I also note that Prudential has paid Mrs H £75 for the delay in setting up the one remaining 
annuity that she was entitled to receive payment from. In the circumstances that seems a fair 
and reasonable solution and within the range of what Id expect to see paid for a delay like 
that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman