DRN-2037483
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given misleading advice when he entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B was supplied with a caravan and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Mr B says that during his discussions with the Santander agent, he was advised that he 
could make a lump sum payment at any time to reduce the term of the agreement.
Mr B contacted Santander in July 2019 to enquire about making a lump sum payment. He 
sent a cheque for £5000 and requested that this was credited to his account with monthly 
payments to remain the same.
Santander wasnt able to action Mr Bs request because the partial settlement procedure 
under the agreement meant that the lump sum wouldnt reduce the term of the agreement 
but would instead reduce the monthly payments. It contacted Mr B to discuss the available 
options.
Mr B complained to Santander. He wasnt happy that his request hadnt been actioned. In 
response, Santander acknowledged that Mr B wanted to pay a lump sum. It explained that 
the effect of this would be to reduce the direct debit monthly payments, but that it wouldnt 
reduce the term of the agreement. Santander sad it should have explained to Mr B 
previously that he could cancel his direct debit and put a standing order in place to credit his 
desired monthly instalment amount, and that he could settle the agreement in full prior to the 
end of the term if he wanted to.
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
doesnt think the compensation offered by Santander is enough in view of the misleading 
advice he says she received.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the terms and conditions of the 
agreement included information on partial settlement and how this would impact the 
agreement. The investigator thought the compensation offered by Santander was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed been advised by Santanders agent that he could pay off a 
lump sum at any time and reduce the term. He said hed suffered financially as a result of 
the advice and wouldnt have entered into the agreement if hed known that lump sum 
payments wouldnt reduce the term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to say that the finance agreement was mis-sold to Mr B, I would need to be satisfied 
that the agent for Santander made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr B to enter 
into the agreement.
Mr B says he was told by the agent that he could pay a lump sum at any time to reduce the 
term of the agreement.
There arent any notes of the discussions which Mr B had with the agent. I wasnt present, 
so I cant be certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
available documents which came into existence at the time, as well as the wider 
circumstances of the case, to decide whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the finance agreement, including the terms and conditions. Theres nothing in 
the agreement to suggest that the terms can be reduced if a lump sum payment is made. 
The terms and conditions explain the partial settlement procedure and makes it clear that a 
partial settlement will reduce monthly payments but that the term will remain the same.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the agreement was 
mis-sold. I think the terms and conditions are clear about partial settlement.
Ive looked at how Santander handled things when Mr B tried to make a lump sum payment 
and requested to reduce the term of the agreement. I can see that when Santander received 
Santanders letter and cheque, where he stated his request to keep his monthly payments 
the same and reduce the term, it credited the cheque and reduced the monthly payments.
I dont think Santander did anything wrong here because it was following the partial 
settlement procedure as set out in the terms and conditions. However, I think Santander 
couldve explained things better to Mr B, because hed asked it to do something it wasnt 
possible to do. Santander has acknowledged that it couldve explained the effects of partial 
settlement in more detail and that its failure to do so led to confusion for Mr B.
I can see that Santander has since provided a full explanation of the effects of partial 
settlement to Mr B and has explained his options for making monthly payments and settling 
the agreement early. It has apologised for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B 
and has offered compensation of £50.
On balance, I think Santanders offer of compensation is fair. Taking all the circumstances of 
the complaint into account, Im unable to say that the agreement was mis-sold to Mr B. And 
although Santander could have provided better customer service when Mr B requested to 
make a lump sum payment, I think that Santander has responded fairly to the complaint. I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision.
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman