DRN-2887537
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Embark Investment Services Limited 
trading as Stocktrade, which he says has caused him financial loss and distress.
What happened
Mr M set up a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider, Standard Life 
(SL or the SIPP provider) in 2017. As part of the SIPP, Mr M could set up a Stocktrade 
trading account (the trading account) to trade in shares using funds from his SIPP. Mr Ms 
trading account was active from January 2018. Stocktrade was an execution only service, 
which meant Mr M received no advice from Stocktrade.
Prior to the trading account being set up in January 2018, Mr M was required to go through a 
concession process with SL. This process checked Mr Ms understanding and experience 
in the types of stocks and shares available to him using the trading account. Mr M went 
through this process with SL in August 2017 and again in December 2017.
From November 2019, Mr M bought and sold shares in a company, Ill refer to as N. On 
24 February 2020, he made a decision to sell all his other shares so that he could buy 
more shares in N. On 26 February 2020, Mr M bought a further 5,000 shares bringing his 
total shareholding in N to 15,000 with a total value of around £131,000. But on 27 February 
2020, Ns shares were suspended from the stock exchange. 
Mr M complained to Stocktrade. In summary, he made the following points:
The Stocktrade staff treated him with contempt and were intimidating;
Stocktrade failed to properly manage the stop loss and limit instructions he made;
Stocktrade authorised two additional trades whilst shares in N were suspended;
The Stocktrade dashboard wasnt accurate and was misleading;
He was unhappy about the fees which he didnt think had been fully explained.
Stocktrade rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said that as an execution only service, it would not 
have offered any advice to him. Stocktrade said that it no longer offered the stop loss service 
which had been withdrawn in 2019. Nonetheless, it said that it handled Mr Ms orders 
correctly and it found no evidence which supported the claim that it failed to accurately 
manage his instructions. It noted no order had been executed since the suspension of Ns 
shares with the last orders being executed on 26 February 2020. 
In terms of its dashboard information, Stocktrade didnt think the dealing balance had been 
incorrectly recorded. However, it said it incorrectly told Mr M he could contact the Registrar 
of Ns shares for his share certificates, when in fact, Stocktrade needed to do this. The error 
was corrected within a day and Stocktrade apologised to Mr M. Finally, Stocktrade said it 
was satisfied its staff had not treated Mr M inappropriately during calls with him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In terms of his main complaint about the trading 
issues with Ns shares, she didnt think Stocktrade had caused any losses to Mr M as it had 
acted on his instructions. Whilst our investigator noted Stocktrade no longer offered a stop 
loss service, she said that because the funds lost all value immediately upon the 
suspension, these orders couldnt be implemented in any event. Our investigator didnt think 
there was any evidence of the Stocktrades staff acting in an inappropriate way to Mr M. And 
she considered it had charged the correct fees in line with its terms.
Mr M disagreed and reiterated the points he made above. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I 
understand that both parties have provided a significant amount of information to support 
their respective cases. Although I may not mention every point theyve raised, Ive 
considered everything theyve said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the 
outcome of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what 
happened, I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities.
As a starting point, the service provided to Mr M by Stocktrade was an execution only 
service. This was made clear in the terms of the account where it says Stocktrade will 
provide you with an execution only telephone and online dealing service in a range of stocks 
and shares quoted on recognised stock exchanges, unit trusts, OEICs and other non-
complex investments. 
Mr M was sent a document by SL when setting up his SIPP and trading accounts called 
Execution-only stockbroking  An investors guide. Under Important information it said:
The service weve described are only available if youre a member of Standard Life 
Self Invested Personal Pension Scheme. Standard Life and Stocktrade cant offer 
advice about stocks and shares. By offering an execution-only service Stocktrade 
wont advise you about the merits of a transaction, so you need to be sure the 
investment is a suitable one. If youre not sure about this service you should speak 
to your financial adviser, who could charge for the advice.
This non-advised element was again emphasised in the Stocktrade terms and conditions. 
So, all in all, I think it was made reasonably clear to Mr M from the outset that Stocktrade 
was a non-advised service. As the service was provided on an execution only basis it was 
for Mr M to decide whether the investments he was buying or selling were suitable for him. 
In terms of the risks, Mr M was taken through a concession process with SL before it 
agreed to set up a trading account for him which worked in conjunction with his SIPP 
account. The purpose of this process was to check Mr M understood the types of 
investments he could buy/ sell on the trading platform and their associated risks. Mr M went 
through this process on two separate occasions with SL. In my view, his answers supported 
that he had the required understanding and experience relevant to the type of investing he 
wanted to do. And Im satisfied that he understood the risks associated with investing in 
stocks and shares.
Mr M says Stocktrade shouldve provided him with an operating manual that it provides to 
financial advisers. But Im satisfied that Mr M was provided with sufficient information about 
the Stocktrade account and how it worked through the paperwork he was given, both before 
and after setting up his account. The terms also made it clear that Mr M was being treated 
as a retail client not a professional client.Ill turn now to Mr Ms complaint about the stop loss and limit order functions. In terms of 
Limit Orders the terms and conditions say:
At our sole discretion we will accept limit orders by telephone or via the 
onlinedealing (sic) service on a 'best efforts' basis. This means that we will use 
all reasonable care and skill to execute the transaction within the limits imposed 
but this is subject to market conditions and other constraints described below.
And in terms of stop loss orders the terms said:
Stop loss orders are a type of limit order where you instruct us to sell a 
security when it reaches a certain price. At our sole discretion we will accept 
stop loss orders by telephone or via the online dealing service. We will place 
an order to sell the security as soon as reasonably practicable once it reaches 
the price you specified when instructing us. However, we cannot guarantee 
that we will be able to deal at that price and so you may get a higher or lower 
price than specified in the stop loss order, particularly in a fast moving or 
volatile market.
Stocktrade said this facility hadnt been available since 2019. But I can see evidence 
submitted by Mr M which showed a stop loss marker on his online account. So, I need to 
consider the impact of Mr M being able to add this order to his account.
From his trading dashboard I can see Mr M did appear to place a stop loss order as well as 
a limit order on 28 February 2020. But Ns shares had already been suspended, so there 
was no possibility of Mr Ms shares being sold at any price. I can also see from evidence 
submitted by Stocktrade which shows the activity on Mr Ms account, that stop loss orders 
and a limit order were placed on 26 February 2020. But I dont think these functions, even 
if operational, would have prevented Mr Ms losses. This is because when Ns shares were 
suspended, this meant the shares could no longer be traded. As our investigator said, the 
stop loss and limit functions, arent designed to prevent losses in this type of situation.
All in all, I dont think the evidence supports that Stocktrades failure to carry out Mr Ms 
stop loss and/ or limit orders, was the cause of Mr Ms losses. And despite what Mr M 
says, I think he was clearly told about the risks associated with these particular functions in 
the terms and conditions of the account which said, in summary, that these were 
discretionary and were subject to market conditions.
I know Mr M says that Stocktrade executed a sale of 5,000 of Ns shares after the 
suspension date, but I cant see any evidence of this. Ive reviewed his account statements 
and the last transaction in Ns shares was on 26 February 2020. As these transactions were 
carried out on the instructions of Mr M, I dont think Stocktrade did anything wrong. I also 
note he says Stocktrade shouldve offered him more advice about the issues around Ns 
shares. But as Ive noted above, this was an execution only service. So, Stocktrade wasnt 
under any obligation to provide advice to Mr M about his trading.
Mr M considers Stocktrade inaccurately reported the available cash balance he had for 
investing. But as Stocktrade has explained to him, the records on his account show that he 
has had a nil trading balance which was soon after Ns shares were suspended. I know the 
value of Ns shares was, for a time, still showing on Mr Ms account as having a book cost of 
£136,634, but this was the last recorded value.
It should be borne in mind, that Mr M was asking for information about his SL account from 
the Stocktrade call handlers. So, whilst Mr M complains that Stocktrade was giving him conflicting information, I think that some confusion came about as SL was a separate 
business. In any event, on balance, I cant fairly say that any differences in this information 
led to any financial loss to Mr M. I think the financial loss Mr M suffered was as a direct result 
of the suspension of Ns shares, which was outside of the control of Stocktrade. 
In terms of what Mr M has said about the fees, our investigator provided a detailed 
breakdown of the charges made by Stocktrade. I wont repeat this again here. Im satisfied 
that, on balance, all the fees Mr M has been charged are in line with the information which 
he had been sent by SL when he set up the trading account. In particular, Stocktrades fees 
and charges were set out in the Your investment choices and charges which was sent to 
Mr M when he set up his SIPP. I can also see that an update about an increase to 
Stocktrades fees was sent to SIPP members on 23 March 2018. I cant see that Stocktrade 
has charged Mr Ms account with anything outside of its agreement with him.
Mr M complains about the way Stocktrade staff spoke to him over the phone. Stocktrade has 
explained that its unable to provide the call recordings due to a change of ownership. 
Further, some of the calls made by Mr M were made abroad using an app or were made 
from a hotel telephone which meant these calls could not be located on its system. But Ive 
been provided with detailed call transcripts and other correspondence with Mr M. And 
looking at everything, on balance, I dont think theres any evidence of Stocktrade and its call 
handlers dealing with Mr M inappropriately in its contact with him.
I can, however, see that Stocktrade made a mistake when it emailed Mr M on 21 May 2020 
to say that he should contact Ns Share Registrar regarding his share certificates. But it 
corrected this the next day to say that this was something it had to do. Given this was 
resolved within a day and didnt result in any loss, Im satisfied, that Stocktrade has done 
enough to put this matter right.
So, whilst I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr M, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman