DRN-2738407
The complaint
Miss B is a sole trader, trading as A. She complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) 
unfairly declined a claim under her business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B holds a business protection insurance policy with Covea. She made a claim on that 
policy to cover her losses arising from her business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said she thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording 
for Infectious Diseases, meant that her claim should be covered.
Miss B complained to Covea but it explained that, although her policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain Infections Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Miss B wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Miss Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Miss Bs situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Miss B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B is looking to claim on her business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining her claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Miss B took out. 
Miss Bs policy included an extension which provided cover for infectious diseases. The 
policy states that it provides cover for business interruption in consequence of closure of the 
Premises  or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result ofany human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding 
Acquired -immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by 
any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for the term Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Miss Bs policy is not like this  rather 
it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might 
emerge.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same. So I dont think this Disease means that the policy should 
provide cover under the terms of the policy.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Miss B. But 
for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I 
dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman