DRN-3988566
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard blocked a transaction 
and then gave him conflicting information about the reason for doing so.
What happened
Mr G says he successfully used his Barclaycard for a transaction whilst abroad, but a 
second transaction was blocked. He says Barclaycard gave him untrue reasons why it 
blocked the transaction. Mr G would like a single truthful version as well as an apology. He 
says Barclaycard said it didnt receive his complaint when he sent it.
Barclaycard accepts it gave conflicting reasons why the transaction was blocked and 
accepts it didnt respond to Mr Gs complaint despite receiving his complaint letter. It has 
apologised and paid £50 compensation. It also says it can no longer say the exact reasons 
why the transaction was blocked but says its entitled to do so when its fraud systems 
flagged the transaction. Barclaycard says it would not reveal the exact reasons in any event 
due to security concerns.
Mr G had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclaycards terms and conditions allowed it to block a transaction or 
account and there was no requirement to provide the exact reasons. The investigator 
explained that complaint handling was not something we could look into.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and in summary says the delay has been ignored and as a 
result the reasons for the block havent been kept. He says Barclaycard should pay a good 
will amount that will deter it from similar future behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has fairly apologised for 
what took place and paid an appropriate compensation amount. I dont require it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr G will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
I am sure Mr G appreciates that fraud is a major problem for individuals and banks. And that 
banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in place to protect its 
and its customers money. That inevitably means on occasions that legitimate transactions 
and customers are made subject to anti-fraud measures. I accept that legitimate customers 
are caused inconvenience and frustrations in those circumstances but that doesnt mean a 
business has made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I have looked carefully at Mr Gs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. They make clear that Barclaycard may refuse 
or block a transaction if for example it appears unusual or if it reasonably suspects fraud. So, 
I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by blocking Mr Gs transaction in 
August 2022. I appreciate Mr G will question why the earlier transaction was authorised but 
that is not something that this decision can explain. I can see that Barclaycard wrote to Mr G 
and told him the transaction in question had been flagged up as possibly fraudulent.
So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard did tell Mr G in writing what had taken place and that it 
wished to speak to him to unblock the account. I dont think a business is obliged to provide 
customers with the exact reasons why its security systems blocked a transaction, as such 
information is likely to be commercially sensitive.
I have no reason to doubt Mr G was given conflicting information by Barclaycard about what 
took place. I dont know why that conflicting information was given but am satisfied that the 
important point is that Barclaycard has apologised. I also accept that Mr G went to the 
trouble of writing to Barclaycard at or around the time of the blocked transaction but didnt 
receive a response. Whilst complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so not 
something ordinarily this service can consider complaints about, I make clear that I 
appreciate Mr Gs frustrations and concern in those circumstances.
Im satisfied that not only has Barclaycard fairly apologised for how it dealt with aspects of 
this complaint, it has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £50. 
I have not seen any evidence that Mr G suffered any real financial loss and dont think the 
impact of what took place justifies further compensation. I make clear that its not our role to 
punish a business as Mr G suggests, to deter future similar behaviour.
I appreciate what Mr G says about Barclaycard not keeping a record of the exact reasons for 
the block, but I have made clear that I wouldnt have expected it to have provided that exact 
reason, as to do so would potentially reveal commercially sensitive material. So, I dont think 
that delay is likely to have changed the outcome here or provided Mr G with any additional 
information.
Overall, I accept Barclaycard could have dealt with this complaint more appropriately and 
ought to have responded to Mr Gs concerns when it received his letter. But Im also satisfied 
that Barclaycard has apologised and paid appropriate compensation. So, this now brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman