DRN-2244768
Complaint
Miss Y is unhappy that MBNA Limited didnt do more to help her when she was the victim of 
a scam.
Background
Miss Y has a credit card with MBNA. In September 2019, she used the credit card to make a 
payment of £1,550 to buy flight tickets. She made this purchase over the phone by providing 
her credit card details. She later discovered that the flights shed booked had been 
cancelled. The agent shed been in contact with was suddenly untraceable. She realised that 
she mustve been the victim of a scam and so she complained to MBNA and asked it to 
refund the payment.
She initially sought to rely on section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) which (in 
some circumstances) allows a customer who has paid for good and services on credit to 
seek redress for a breach of contract or misrepresentation from the credit provider, rather 
than the supplier. 
MBNA rejected her complaint. It said that she didnt have the right to bring a claim under s75 
because an important technical requirement hadnt been met. Shed made the payment 
directly to a money remittance firm, rather than the firm she contracted with for the tickets. 
That meant there was a no debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place.
MBNA also said that Miss Y shouldve recognised that the website she was buying the 
tickets from was unlikely to be legitimate and that she couldve checked whether this 
business was genuinely registered with ABTA or ATOL.
Miss Y wasnt happy with MBNAs conclusions and so she brought a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator said that:
Miss Y couldnt rely on s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as a basis for claiming 
compensation from MBNA because the requirement that there be a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement wasnt met.
MBNA could have raised a chargeback, but it wouldnt have succeeded. Strictly 
speaking, the service Miss Y had paid for (money remittance) had been provided.
Although MBNA would be expected to keep an eye out for unusual transactions, this 
particular transaction wouldnt have appeared out of character. 
MBNA could have attempted to recover the money from the money remittance firm. 
However, by the time Miss Y informed it that shed been a victim of fraud, the funds 
had been moved to a different account so recovery wasnt possible.
Miss Y was unhappy with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no question here that Miss Y has been the victim of a cruel scam and she was my 
complete sympathy. However, I must decide whether MBNA should reasonably have been 
expected to prevent Miss Y from falling victim to this scam and if there were any steps it 
ought to have taken to help her after the scam was uncovered.
Im satisfied that Miss Y authorised the transaction. She didnt intend for the funds to be 
transferred to scammers  she was tricked into doing so because she believed that theyd 
supply her with airline tickets in exchange. Nonetheless, the relevant rules that are 
applicable here make her liable for the transaction at first instance. 
However, good industry practice required MBNA to be mindful of the risk of fraud and to be 
on the lookout for potentially suspicious transactions. In certain circumstances, MBNA might 
be expected to question a payment with its customer before allowing it to be processed. 
Having said that, Ive looked at the statement history on Miss Ys account and Im not 
persuaded that MBNA wouldve had any reasonable basis for treating this payment as out of 
character and so I dont think it did anything wrong by not intervening.
When Miss Y originally brought her complaint to this service, she was looking to rely on s75 
to get a refund of the payment on the basis that the company that promised to provide her 
with airline tickets had breached the agreement it had with her. Unfortunately, s75 isnt 
applicable here. Ordinarily, where goods or services have been bought on credit and the 
consumer has a valid claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier, 
they can hold the provider of the credit jointly and severally liable for that breach of contract 
or misrepresentation.
However, this is subject to several technical conditions being met. One of those conditions is 
that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. This is fully defined in section 12 
of the CCA 1974 but, for the purposes of this complaint, it essentially means that there must 
be an unbroken link between Miss Y (the debtor), MBNA (the creditor) and the business she 
paid for tickets (the supplier). Unfortunately, in this case Miss Y didnt make a direct payment 
to the supplier  she made a payment to a third-party money remittance company. Because 
the payment wasnt made directly to the purported supplier of the goods, s75 doesnt apply 
to this transaction. I therefore think it was fair and reasonable for MBNA to decline her claim.
The investigator also considered whether MBNA could've raised a chargeback. This option 
is available in a range of circumstances where there's a dispute between a cardholder and a 
merchant. There's no automatic right to a chargeback. But as a general rule, we say it's fair 
to expect a card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there's a reasonable prospect that it will 
succeed. 
Unfortunately, I think it would've been unlikely to succeed here. In order to raise a 
chargeback, MBNA wouldve needed to cite one of the specific reasons set out in the 
scheme rules. The rules do provide for raising a dispute where someone has paid for a 
service that hasnt been provided and Miss Y clearly had an agreement to buy flight tickets.
However, there was no breach of any agreement by the counterparty to this payment 
transaction. Fundamentally, she did receive the service that she paid for (money remittance) 
albeit she was duped into doing so by a scammer.  The fact that Miss Y has a legitimate 
dispute with the eventual recipient of the funds doesnt bring mean that this transfer would 
be covered by the chargeback rules. For that reason, I dont think MBNA acted unreasonably 
by not raising a chargeback on this transaction.I fully recognise the strength of feeling Miss Y has regarding this case.  Thats 
understandable given that shes been the victim of such a cynical scam. But whilst Im sorry 
to have to disappoint her, Im not persuaded that MBNA has done anything wrong here and 
so I dont uphold her complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman