DRN-4139827
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money shes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
In January 2022, Mrs S applied for a £2,500 loan from a company Ill refer to as F. F 
approved Mrs S loan application, and she went on to make the following payments to F from 
her Monzo account in support of the application (the payments) (other fees were paid from 
other bank accounts too, including a £200 payment for insurance purposes which was made 
prior to the payments listed below).
Date of payment Amount of payment Reason for payment
19 January 2022 £250 To improve Mrs S credit 
score (refundable)
19 January 2022 £250 Tax due on the loan
19 January 2022 £300 Document charges/preparing 
affidavit/stamp papers 
(refundable)
21 January 2022 £350 Bank transfer fee payable in 
respect of transfer of loan 
funds (refundable)
Mrs S has explained that she believed she was dealing with a genuine loan company when 
she made the payments and had no reason to doubt Fs legitimacy. F appeared to have 
sophisticated knowledge of unsecured loans and sent her correspondence that looked 
professional and assured her. She only realised shed been scammed when F ceased 
contact with her, and she didnt receive the loan funds or the promised fee refunds.
Mrs S raised a fraud claim with Monzo. Shes explained that she didnt receive any warnings 
for transactions which were out of character and the bank shouldve been aware that shes 
vulnerable because English isnt her first language, and she is experiencing financial 
difficulties. 
Monzo couldnt recover Mrs S money from the receiving accounts and it declined to 
reimburse her under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) because it found that she made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
belief.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt think it was unfair of Monzo to decline to reimburse Mrs S under the 
CRM Code. 
Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, but its allowed us to apply the Codes 
principles to complaints we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
In summary, the CRM Code says that a customer who was vulnerable when they made an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam payment should receive a full refund of that 
payment, regardless of whether the firm knew about the customers vulnerability before the 
scam took place. The CRM Code states that:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Mrs S has said that English isnt her first language, and she is experiencing financial 
difficulties. Ive thought about what shes said in the context of the CRM Code, and Im not 
persuaded that she couldnt reasonably be expected to have protected herself from the 
scam because of those vulnerabilities or that they shouldve affected her decision-making 
capacity.
Nevertheless, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams, like the one Mrs S has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo has argued that one of the exceptions applies in this case. It says 
that Mrs S made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the 
person she was expecting to pay, the payments were for genuine goods or services and/or 
the business or person she was transacting with was legitimate.
In thinking about whether Mrs S had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what 
steps she took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the transactions, and whether it 
was reasonable for her to proceed with the payments. Ive noted that:
Mrs S didnt receive any loan documentation.
Mrs S doesnt appear to have carried out any checks on F.
F is not an FCA-authorised firm.
Fs website is not fully functioning.
The text messages Mrs S received from F do not look professional  they contain 
errors and do not address Mrs S by name.
It is not usual practice for a genuine loan provider to request payments in order to 
receive lending. Mrs S was asked to pay F £1,500 to receive a £2,500 loan, for 
dubious reasons, and I think this should reasonably have alerted her to the possibility 
that something was amiss.The payments went to accounts in the names of individuals, rather than an account 
held by F.
Overall, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mrs S had a reasonable basis for belief 
on this occasion. So, Im not persuaded that Monzo should have reimbursed Mrs S loss 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Given the nature and value of the payments, I wouldnt have expected the bank to have 
identified an APP scam risk. I appreciate that the payments were the highest value 
transactions on Mrs S account in recent times, but I still dont think they stood out as 
particularly unusual in consideration of normal account activity, and theres nothing else 
about the payments that I think is suspicious enough that the bank ought to have intervened. 
So, Im not persuaded that Monzo ought to have taken any further action to prevent the 
scam. 
Ive seen that Monzo didnt contact the receiving bank as quickly as I think it ought to have 
done after Mrs S reported the APP scam but, even if it had, there wouldve been no funds 
left in the beneficiary accounts to recover. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Monzo to reimburse some or all of Mrs S loss on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman