DRN-3651134
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK Plc. They are 
unhappy they couldnt have the new interest rate product they wanted in 2021. This was 
because the product was withdrawn before the application was accepted. They say that they 
werent told this could happen.
What happened
In the autumn of 2021 Mr and Mrs R had an existing mortgage with another lender. They 
wanted to re-mortgage to Barclays and started the process online before speaking to a 
mortgage adviser. Mr and Mrs R spoke to Barclays on 8 October 2021 about their mortgage 
requirements, including wanting to attach a two-year tracker interest rate product of 1.09% 
above Bank of England base rate to the mortgage. As Mr R was starting a new job a few 
days later, Barclays said that the application couldnt move ahead until Mr R could provide a 
payslip from his new employer to evidence his income.
Mr and Mrs R went back to Barclays once Mr R had received his first payslip. However, by 
that time, the 1.09% tracker product they had wanted was no longer available and the 
equivalent product had a tracker rate of 1.58% above Bank of England base rate attached to 
it. Mr and Mrs R complained, saying they werent told that this could happen. 
Barclays responded to the complaint in its letter of 11 November 2021. It explained that 
Mr and Mrs Rs application couldnt be progressed until they could provide proof of income in 
the form of a payslip from Mr Rs new employer. During the time it took for the payslip to 
become available, the interest rate product that Mr and Mrs R wanted had been withdrawn. 
While Barclays sympathised with the situation Mr and Mrs R had found themselves in, it 
didnt consider there had been an error on its part. 
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with Barclays response and referred their complaint to us. 
When doing so, they said that had they been told the product could be withdrawn, they 
would have had the option to look into re-mortgaging with another lender, as there were 
three they were aware of, that were offering comparable interest rate products in early 
October 2021. 
When we requested Barclays file relating to the complaint, it confirmed that its mortgage 
advisers were not aware of when interest rate products were going to be withdrawn or when 
new ones would be introduced.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the investigators opinion. They said that they thought the 
telephone conversations Mr R had with the mortgage adviser were misleading. They said 
that when theyd later approached another lender, it had told them rates were not 
guaranteed and could change, but Barclays hadnt done that and they were disadvantaged 
because of that.  Mr and Mrs R also said that given their circumstances, they believe that an 
alternative lender might not have required a payslip for Mr Rs new employment and so the 
investigators conclusion that it was likely that other lenders would have wanted sight of his 
payslip should carry no weight in the decision as to whether to uphold the complaint. They 
maintained that Barclays didnt treat them fairly. 
The investigator reiterated that an interest rate product wasnt guaranteed until a mortgage 
application had been accepted. He highlighted that in Mr and Mrs Rs case, an application 
wasnt actually submitted. He asked that, if Mr and Mrs R had been told something else, they 
should confirm it and we would request further evidence relating to that issue. Mr and Mrs R 
responded by saying that the adviser hadnt told them the product wasnt secured for the 
mortgage if they went ahead with the application. 
Barclays confirmed that the calls between Mr R and the mortgage adviser werent recorded. 
However, the mortgage adviser had stated that Mr R was told that the application couldnt be 
completed until Mr R could provide a payslip from his new employer. Also it had been 
agreed that Mr R would contact the adviser again once a payslip was available. The adviser 
also confirmed that she would have said that interest rate products could be withdrawn at 
any time.
The further comments and information were reviewed by another of our investigators. She 
didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly, as the application hadnt been submitted and 
nothing had been issued to Mr and Mrs R to confirm that they could have the rate they 
wanted. She didnt think theyd been misled. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R said that he considered he completed a full verbal 
application for a specific product, which he believes constituted a valid basis for a contract. 
Mr R also disputed the mortgage advisers comments that he had been aware that the 
application couldnt be submitted until hed provided his payslip and that he had been told 
that interest rate products could be withdrawn at any time. He said that it should be 
considered inequitable to accept the testimony of the mortgage adviser over the customer, 
when the adviser had failed in their duty of care to that customer. Mr and Mrs R asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review and clarified that their complaint was 
that they believed that their mortgage application had been completed and accepted, so they 
were guaranteed the interest rate product they wanted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the merits of the complaint, I would explain that in order to uphold a 
complaint I must be persuaded that the financial business did something wrong. Where there 
are differing accounts of events, in order to find that a financial business did something 
wrong, the evidence needs to establish that it is more likely that an error or omission 
occurred, not just as likely. When making a decision in such a situation, I must consider both 
the accounts of events, but I will also factor in what is required under regulation and what is 
good industry practice. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that when Mr R spoke to the mortgage adviser, he considered that 
the application had been submitted, accepted and they were guaranteed the interest rate 
product they wanted. The mortgage adviser has said that Mr R was told that the application 
couldnt progress until he could provide a payslip from his new employer evidencing his 
income from that employment. 
It is normal procedure for a lender to require proof of income and, for an employed 
individual, that proof will usually be required in the form of a payslip. This requirement is in 
place because a lender is required by the regulator to ensure a mortgage is affordable before offering it. Although Mr and Mrs R have said there is the possibility that other lenders 
wouldnt have required his payslip if theyd gone elsewhere, I think it unlikely as those 
lenders would also have had to assess affordability of any mortgage applied for. 
I dont doubt Mr R in what he says he believed following the conversation with the mortgage 
adviser. However, I find it highly unlikely that he would have been told that the application 
could even be progressed without proof of income from his new employment. Nor do I think 
it likely that he was told the application had been accepted and the rate guaranteed, as the 
adviser wouldnt have had the ability to do either of those things. I think the advisers account 
of events, that Mr R was told the application couldnt progress in early October due to the 
lack of proof of his new income, is more likely to be accurate. 
There is again a dispute about whether Mr R was told that interest rate products could be 
withdrawn at any time. It is something that is likely to be explained during a mortgage 
interview. However, even if it were not specifically mentioned, I dont think that Mr and Mrs R 
were disadvantaged. I say this as Mr and Mrs Rs application could only be made on the 
basis of what products were available at the time the application was submitted. 
Mr and Mrs R have suggested that, had they been told that the rate might not be available 
by the time they were in a position to submit their application, they would have gone 
elsewhere and obtained a mortgage without proof of income. As I have said above, I find it 
very unlikely they would have been granted a mortgage elsewhere without needing to 
provide evidence of Mr Rs income.
I can appreciate the disappointment Mr and Mrs R felt when they discovered the interest rate 
product theyd hoped access for their re-mortgage wasnt going to be available to them. 
However, I am not persuaded that the evidence indicates that Barclays made an error in its 
handling of their prospective application or that it treated them unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman