DRN-3427403
The complaint
Mr K complains that Al Rayan bank PLC (Al Rayan) made errors in opening a 24-month
fixed deposit.
What happened
On 24 June 2020, Mr K applied to Al Rayan to open a 24-month fixed deposit at a profit 
rate of 1.41%. He said he would deposit £50,000 in the account. The account was opened 
on 27 June 2020  with a zero balance, pending the receipt of funds into it. Al Rayan 
emailed him the confirmation, but the email didnt contain the account number for the new 
account. Al Rayan then sent the welcome letter to Mr Ks previous address  so he didnt 
get that. In August 2020, the account was closed as no funds had been paid into it.
Mr K complained. He said that Al Rayan hadnt given him the account number of the 
deposit account and therefore couldnt pay into it. He replied to the confirmation email to 
advise Al Rayan about the lack of an account number but this was sent to an unmonitored 
inbox  so it wasnt picked up by the bank. The welcome pack was also sent to his old 
address in error  even though he had told Al Rayan about his new address. And so  he 
was in the dark about what had happened, or how to fund the account. He therefore had no 
knowledge of the closure of the account due to the lack of funds. He said he wanted 
interest backdated to June 2020 at the rate then applicable, plus compensation of £150.
Al Rayan said there was an onus on Mr K to contact them if he didnt receive the account 
details. The email he responded to didnt contain the account number  this was their error. 
But - it did also state at its bottom that it shouldnt be replied to as the mailbox was 
unattended. So  that was Mr Ks error. Al Rayan accepted theyd sent the welcome pack 
to Mr Ks previous address. They said that Mr K couldve contacted them when he realised 
he didnt have the account number  and they could then have helped. They didnt agree to 
backdating interest on the account. They paid compensation of £150  which was in 
respect of this complaint in addition to another complaint about a different deposit (which is 
not the subject of this complaint).
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Al Rayan acted fairly in dealing with 
Mr Ks complaint. He said that Al Rayan had made some errors. And while on the balance 
of probabilities Mr K wouldve funded the account without the errors  he felt that Mr K 
couldve done more to contact Al Rayan to obtain the account number when he realised he 
didnt have it. He said the account was automatically closed in line with Al Rayans 
processes  and they couldnt be expected to contact every customer to chase them for 
their deposits  the onus was on Mr K to fund the account.
Mr K didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that:
- The email he received from Al Rayan didnt include the account number for the 
new 24-month deposit  so he couldnt pay into the account to fund it.
- He replied to the email to say this but he hadnt noticed that there was a reference 
at the bottom to say the mailbox was unattended and emails wouldnt be 
responded to.
- He didnt get a welcome pack  which gave more details about the account  as 
this was sent to his previous address.
- The 24-month deposit was closed after one month  in August 2020  without 
notice and because of the lack of funds paid into it.
There are two sides to my view of Mr Ks complaint. On the one hand:
- Al Rayan have admitted they were at fault in not including the account number in 
the email sent to Mr K. So  he didnt have all the information needed to enable 
him to pay into the account.
- Al Rayan have admitted that they sent the welcome pack to Mr Ks previous address
 even though hed told them of his move. Ive seen in Al Rayans account notes 
that they say this was their error. I can see that the welcome pack contained full 
details of how to pay into the account  including the account number. So  if Mr K 
had received this, he wouldve had all the information needed.
- Al Rayan say that they closed the account without any advice to Mr K because no 
funds had been received  and that was part of their process. I dont think thats a 
fair stance to take. I think it was reasonable for Al Rayan to have contacted Mr K to 
remind him that he'd not paid into it  and that it would be closed if he didnt. Thats 
the normal process most banks and deposit institutions take. If Al Rayan had done 
that, Mr K couldve taken action to pay in.
- We asked Al Rayan more about this  they told us that they dont generally advise 
customers at the outset of a deposit that it should be funded by a certain date. 
Thats their business decision to take  but I note that in the circumstances of Mr 
Ks complaint, if they had advised him of this at the outset, (for example, in the 
initial email or welcome pack), he could have taken appropriate action. Al Rayan 
told us that they dont have terms and conditions which cover this point.
On the other hand:
- It is the case that Al Rayans email to Mr K stated  Do not reply to this email as the 
mailbox is unattended. Please submit general enquiries at ou r contact us page. 
So  Mr K should have seen this and not replied to the email.
- Mr K couldve been more proactive and contacted Al Rayan  as the email also 
suggested. I havent seen that he did so or tried to pay into the account. It would 
have been reasonable for him to realise that he hadnt been able to make a 
deposit and do something about it. If hed called Al Rayan, they couldve sorted 
things out.
- Its normal process for a bank to close a fixed deposit if no funds are received into 
it  it looks like Mr K was an experienced investor who might reasonably have 
known this.
And so  there are two sides to this complaint and I must balance this when making a 
provisional decision. For me, Al Rayan were at fault in not advising Mr K of the account number; for sending the welcome pack to the wrong address; and for not acting fairly in 
advising Mr K that his account hadnt been funded and would be closed by a certain date.
But equally, Mr K couldve been more proactive in contacting Al Rayan to ask for the 
information he needed. So  I dont think its fair to ask Al Rayan to pay Mr K interest from 
the date of the opening of the account in June 2020. But I do think that Al Rayan couldve 
done more to provide Mr K with more information both at the opening of the account and 
about its impending and subsequent closure. I can appreciate this has been a source of 
frustration for Mr K and for that, I propose the payment of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Our service has set out criteria for how much should be paid in circumstances such as this. 
This says An award between £100 and £300 might be suitable where there have been 
repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out.
Typically, the businesss actions could have resulted in some acute stress lasting hours at 
the lower end  or a have had a milder impact across a few days, or even weeks. In this 
range youll usually see either some inconvenience has been caused, or lower levels of 
distress, disappointment and loss of expectation. I think that what happened here falls 
within that definition  and I propose an amount of compensation in the middle of that 
range - £150. Al Rayan have already paid compensation of £150 for this and another 
unrelated complaint  the split is not clear. But my recommended amount of £150 is in 
addition to that.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Al Rayan said they agreed but contested the amount of compensation, they said theyd 
paid £50 for the related complaint and £100 for this complaint. So, they proposed additional 
compensation of £100  a total of £200.
Mr K asked that we consider:
- That he was abroad at the time of the fixed deposit application and so couldnt 
beproactive. And he had to call Al Rayan from abroad and incurred call costs of 
45 minutes @£1.44 per minute in contacting Al Rayan from abroad. He said hed 
told Al Rayan he was to be abroad.
- He said that Al Rayan repeated the error again on 4 January 2021  when they 
emailed him with a fixed rate deposit confirmation without an account number on it. 
This also went to his junk folder. He therefore said interest should be paid from that 
date.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.On Al Rayans point, I acknowledge the points theyve made. I had looked at the breakdown 
of the prior compensation in the papers they sent to us  and couldnt find anything. So  in 
summary, it was always my intention to award Mr K a further £150 compensation, and I think 
thats the right sum for what happened. So  I am sticking with that.
On Mr Ks points:
- It was unfortunate that he was abroad at the time, but in all fairness, we cant hold Al 
Rayan responsible for the fact that he found communications hindered by that  
event though hed told them so.
- On his second point  we had raised this with Al Rayan during our investigation. And 
they confirmed to us that the email Mr K refers to was in connection with his related 
complaint (about a 12-month fixed rate ISA). This isnt the subject of this complaint  
and so I cant consider this point.
And so  in summary, my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Al Rayan Bank PLC must:
- Pay compensation of £150 to Mr K for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman