DRN-1334103
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt properly 
repair his front wall after he made a claim on his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr D knocked into his front wall, causing damage. He made a claim on his buildings 
insurance policy. LV accepted the claim and appointed its contractor to carry out the repairs 
to the damaged area. The contractor gave Mr D a 24-month warranty in case of further 
issues with the wall. This warranty was dated 27 October 2016.
In 2017, Mr D noticed a crack in part of the wall thatd recently been rebuilt. In May 2017, 
another one of LVs contractors went out to inspect Mr Ds wall. He thought the damage was 
down to the failure of the foundations. So he didnt think this was a workmanship issue or 
covered by the warranty. Mr D thought the crack had been fixed by the contractor.
In January 2019, Mr D noticed further cracking to the wall and got back in touch with LV. LV 
told Mr D he was now outside of the warranty period. It said again that it thought the cracking 
was down to a problem with the walls construction. Mr D wasnt happy and complained to 
LV about the cracking to his wall.
While Mr Ds complaint was ongoing, he hit the wall again with his car. His new insurer 
agreed to cover the costs of repairing the areas of new damage. It said this was the limit of 
its liability. But it didnt agree to the full costs of rebuilding the wall. Thats because it said 
during its inspection it had noticed the wall hadnt been properly built. It suggested Mr D 
should approach LV to ask it to reassess the condition of the wall.
LV said itd looked at the photos of the repairs its contractors had carried out and it thought 
the works looked fine. It said there was no sign faulty materials had been used. One of LVs 
claims controllers had reviewed Mr Ds file and thought the cracking was due to a pre-
existing defect in the wall, which wouldnt be covered. But it did tell Mr D if he got an 
independent report which proved in detail that faulty materials had been used in the rebuild 
of the wall, it would consider this further.
Mr D remained unhappy and asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator didnt think 
Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He didnt think LV had treated Mr D unfairly and he didnt 
think Mr Ds wall repairs were still covered by the warranty. He said he couldnt see a reason 
to say LV should honour the warranty outside of this period.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator. He didnt think the investigator had looked at all the 
information hed provided. He didnt think the rebuilt wall had been fit for purpose and so the 
warranty end date would be overridden in general law. He didnt think LV had acted 
reasonably because it hadnt come out to inspect the wall. He said it was clear from the 
photos that the mortar didnt adhere to the bricks.  The new insurer and two independent 
contractors all indicated the wall repair in 2016 was poor.The complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think LV is 
responsible for putting right the damage to Mr Ds wall. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly that LVs contractors did a poor job in 2016 and thats 
caused the further cracking to the wall. But I have to look at the expert evidence Ive been 
provided with and decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Mr Ds new insurer suggested he should approach LV so it could assess the section of wall it 
wasnt covering. The new insurer covered only the section of damaged wall caused by Mr 
Ds impact with it in June 2019. Ive looked carefully at its contractors scope of works to see 
if it mentioned the cracked section of wall or established this had been down to LVs  poor 
workmanship in 2016. I cant see the contractor made this finding, although I acknowledge I 
havent seen the full report.
Ive then turned to look at the quotes Mr Ds independent contractors provided, to see if 
these establish LVs workmanship as a cause of the cracking. The first states that the wall is 
cracked throughout length and is not plumb so complete demolition and rebuild is required. 
This quote refers to the cracks in the wall, but it doesnt suggest whatd caused those cracks 
or that there was evidence of poor workmanship by LV. The fact it says the wall isnt plumb 
would also tend to support that thered been movement in the foundations, as LV suggested.
The second quote states that the wall has very large cracks through out it from the impact 
and has unfortunately weakened it making it unsafe. Again, while theres a clear reference 
to the cracks in the wall, this contractor didnt suggest those cracks were caused by faulty 
workmanship or the use of poor materials. In fact, this report suggests the impact damage 
was the main cause of the cracking.
Ive carefully considered the photos Mr D has provided and all hes said. But Im not 
persuaded the evidence hes given me shows me its most likely that LVs contractors failed 
to properly repair the wall in 2016.
LV seems to have carried out a full review of Mr Ds whole claims file while looking into his 
complaint. It said it had originally assumed the cracks were down the first impact in 2016. 
This seems to have been a reasonable assumption to make. And it acknowledges that 
based on this assumption, it only took the wall down to floor level when it first did the works, 
so it didnt inspect the foundations at that point. If it had, it said it couldve perhaps arranged 
for Mr D to pay for the cost of replacing the wall footings. 
It also seems to me that if LV had been aware at that point that the cracking was likely due 
to defective foundations, it might not have agreed to cover the costs of rebuilding this part of 
the wall. Thats because his policy didnt cover faulty design. So I dont think Mr D is worse 
off because LV didnt investigate further in 2016.
When Mr D noticed further cracking in 2017, LVs contractor inspected the wall. They found 
that due to the crack being in the same location, it was now likely that the cracking was due 
to a pre-existing issue with the foundations. The contractor said Damage to wall is caused 
by failure of foundation, probably attributed to the large bush growing directly behind the 
wall. This is not related to workmanship and would not be covered by warranty.It doesnt seem that LV let Mr D know about its findings at this point, which is unfortunate. 
But I dont think it makes any material difference here. Thats because a pre-existing fault 
with the original foundations of the wall wouldnt have been covered by either the warranty or 
original policy. Mr D would always have needed to bear the costs of getting new foundations, 
or the wall rebuilt. He simply wouldve incurred these costs at an earlier point in time.
Following its review, LV said the only issues that couldve been put down to poor 
workmanship would be the quality of the mortar, the bricks and how the wall was built. Its 
contractors inspection in 2017 didnt find any issues with these things (if the contractor had, 
these wouldve been put right under the warranty). It agreed that the cause of the cracking 
was likely down to defective original foundations. Taking into account the photos Ive seen 
and the contractors report, I think this was a reasonable conclusion for LV to come to. And 
as Ive explained above, I dont think the quotes Mr D provided are sufficient evidence to 
counter LVs decision.
LV did say it would consider an independent expert report which supported Mr Ds position if 
he got one. I think this was a reasonable response from LV and it was open to Mr D to get 
this evidence had he chosen to do so.
Based on all Ive seen, I think it was fair for LV to decline to pay the costs of getting the rest 
of Mr Ds wall rebuilt. His warranty ended on 27 October 2018, so by the time he noticed the 
cracking in January 2019, he was out of time under the warranty. I havent seen enough to 
make me think the warranty ought to be extended or that the further cracking was down to 
faulty workmanship. So I think that even if the warranty had been extended, the works still 
wouldnt have been covered.
While I sympathise with Mr Ds position, I think LV has treated him fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman