DRN-3415637
The complaint
H, a registered charity, complains that The Co-Operative Bank PLC (The Co-Op) failed to tell 
H when its savings account interest rates dropped and failed to tell H that an account with a 
better interest rate was available. H is also unhappy at the lack of detail in Co-ops reply to 
its complaint.
H is represented by one of its trustees, Mr H.
What happened
On 1 June 2021, Mr H wrote to The Co-Op asking why Hs interest payments had 
decreased. The Co-Op replied on 1 July 2021 saying the rates had reduced in line with the 
Bank of England base rate and included a copy of an insert it said it had sent to its 
customers confirming the change in March 2020.
Mr H wasnt happy with The Co-Ops reply, so he complained. He said H hadnt received 
notice of the change in interest rates and that The Co-Op should have told it about a 95-day 
account that carried a superior interest rate. The Co-Op issued its final response to Hs 
complaint on 25 September 2021. It didnt uphold Hs complaint, saying the interest rates on 
Hs account were in line with the banks terms and conditions.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said he wasnt 
happy that The Co-Op had failed to advise H of the 95-day account, that it hadnt given 
notice of reduced interest payments and that it hadnt answered Hs complaint letter in full. 
Mr H said The Co-Op had violated the banking code and that he wanted it to convert Hs 
account to a 95-day account and pay back-dated interest along with compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Hs complaint. He didnt think The Co-Op was obliged to tell H 
about new accounts available, he was satisfied it had notified H of the interest rate changes 
and he said he couldnt look into Hs complaint about The Co-Ops response to Hs 
complaint, because it was out of our jurisdiction.
Mr H didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to start by clarifying the basis on which our Service assesses complaints. Our Service 
looks at various rules and regulations, industry guidance and standard practices, and 
ultimately whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of each individual complaint. 
And Ive based my decision on the matters I think are relevant to Hs complaint, including 
what I believe to be fair and reasonable.
The 95-day account
I recognise Mr H feels strongly about this complaint. Hes bringing it on behalf of a charity 
and its admirable for trustees of a charity to take steps to protect and maximise any income. 
With that being said, I cant reasonably say The Co-Op made a mistake by failing to offer the 
95-day account to H. Banks offer a number of different products and update their offerings 
from time to time. And theres no formal obligation for a bank to update its customers when a 
new product becomes available.
There are times when a new product might be beneficial for certain of a banks customers. 
But choosing how a bank advertises such products to existing customers is a commercial 
decision for each bank to make, and as such not a decision our service would interfere with. 
Our Services role is to check if a bank has complied with the applicable rules and 
regulations, applied its own procedures correctly, and treated its customers fairly. On this 
occasion, Im satisfied The Co-Op was entitled to make its own decision about how to 
market its products, and I cant say it broke any rules or treated H unfairly. 
Notification of interest rates
The terms and conditions of Hs account allow The Co-Op to increase and decrease the 
interest it pays on savings accounts in certain circumstances. The Co-Op made such a 
change when the Bank of England base rate dropped to 0.1% in March 2020. Mr H says The 
Co-Op didnt tell H about the interest change, but The Co-Op says it sent H an insert 
detailing the changes with Hs March account statement. 
When Mr H replied to our investigators outcome, he said The Co-Op hadnt produced hard 
evidence to prove it had sent the statement insert. And I agree that we cant say with 
certainty that The Co-Op did send the insert. However, I have to decide complaints before 
me on the balance of probabilities, i.e. what I think more likely than not happened, and not to 
a higher standard of proof than that. 
The Co-Op has sent our Service a copy of the insert it says it sent, along with a screenshot 
that it says shows it sent Hs March statement on 31 March 2020 as part of a forced 
statement run. And, having looked at the evidence both parties have provided, Im satisfied 
The Co-Op did confirm the new interest rates to H. 
It's entirely possible that either Mr H didnt notice or pay any attention to the insert, or that it 
simply wasnt delivered to H in the post. But on balance, Im persuaded that The Co-Op sent 
the insert it says it sent, in the manner it says it sent it. And Im satisfied that doing so was 
sufficient to discharge its duties in the circumstances of this complaint.
Even if The Co-Op hadnt sent the insert, I note that H didnt transfer the account balance 
elsewhere in pursuit of improved interest, so I couldnt say it lost out financially. That is to 
say that H would have been in the same position regardless of whether or not it was notified 
of the interest changes, because The Co-Op applied the correct level of interest, and 
because Hs actions suggest it would have kept the funds in the same account regardless of 
whether or not it knew about the rate change.
The Co-Ops final response
Our investigator took the view that he couldnt look at Mr Hs complaint that The Co-Op didnt 
respond to all of Hs complaint points. That is based on the fact that our Service can only 
look at activities carried out by banks that are regulated, and that complaint-handling isnt 
regulated. Our Service can look at complaints about complaint-handling if such a complaint 
is ancillary to a regulated activity. But regardless, Hs complaint on this point is not one our 
service would uphold in these circumstances. 
While I accept The Co-Op didnt reply to Mr Hs complaint point about the 95-day account, it did reply to his complaint overall and it said what H could do if it remained unhappy with its 
answer (i.e. refer his complaint to our Service). I take the view that Mr H would still have 
brought Hs complaint to our Service even if The Co-Op had expressly stated it didnt uphold 
that part of Hs complaint, and of course I havent upheld that part of Hs complaint. So Im 
not persuaded The Co-Op failed in its duty to H or that it suffered any loss or harm as a 
result.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed by my outcome and that this wasnt the answer hed 
hoped for. But for the reasons Ive set out, I wont ask The Co-Op to do anything to put 
things right for H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman