DRN-2745321
The complaint
Miss J complains that a car acquired with finance from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss J was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF.
Miss J experienced several issues with the car within the first three months and reported 
these to the supplying dealer. The supplying dealer offered to insect and repair the car but 
due to Miss J being unhappy with the courtesy car she was offered the repairs didnt take 
place.
Miss J says she tried to re-book the repairs but didnt hear back from the dealership.
In June 2020 Miss J obtained a diagnostic report on the car. She then complained to SMF 
and said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that she wanted to reject it.
SMF declined Miss Js request to reject. It said the supplying dealer was allowed one 
opportunity to repair the car.
Miss J wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants to reject 
the car and for SMF to amend her credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although he was satisfied that 
there was a fault with the car which the business had a responsibility to put right, the remedy 
under the relevant legislation was to allow the business an opportunity to repair the fault. 
The investigator said that because the supplying dealer had offered to repair the fault, this 
was a reasonable resolution to the complaint.
Miss J didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF supplied the car under a fire purchase agreement, theres an implied term that 
it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as  
amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first six months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. 
After six months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
car isnt of satisfactory quality.
An experts report can help to decide whether a car is of satisfactory quality. In this case, 
Miss J obtained a diagnostic report in June 2020. The report identifies issues with the seat 
belt and boost pressure sensor. It says that the faults have been logged for 7-8 months, 
which means the faults were present at the point of supply.
The diagnostic report isnt as detailed as an independent inspection report. However, based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the diagnostic report shows that there are faults with the 
car which were present at the point of supply.
I can see that the supplying dealer previously offered to repair the car. Miss J accepts that a 
repair was offered and acknowledges that she initially refused repairs because the courtesy 
car offered to her wasnt acceptable. Miss J says she later realised she made a mistake and 
tried to re-book the repairs but didnt hear back from the supplying dealer.
Theres no evidence to show whether or not Miss J made a further attempt to book a repair. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to ask SMF to allow Miss J to reject the 
car. The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think the supplying dealer should be given this opportunity.
Because the supplying dealer has offered to repair the car, I wont be asking SMF to do 
anything further. However, I would like to clarify that SMF should contact Miss J to arrange 
for the car to be repaired as soon as possible. The repairs should address all of the issues 
identified in the diagnostic report, as well as any issues found on inspection which are 
deemed to be point of supply faults.
I wont be asking SMF to amend Miss Js credit file. This is because she has failed to 
maintain her monthly payments under the agreement, against a background of an offer to 
repair the car which was made in March 2020, which I have found to be a reasonable 
resolution.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman