DRN-2201584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for impact damage 
to their roof by a tree was dealt with by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
What happened
In March 2019 a tree fell on Mr and Mrs Ps neighbours home, and partly on their home 
causing considerable damage to the neighbours flat roof. Mr and Mrs Ps home also 
suffered damage to their main flat roof and to a lower conservatory roof. When it rained, 
water came in the property. They made a claim to Lloyds, who assessed it. It said initially 
that there was no damage to Mr and Mrs Ps roof, speculating that the internal damage may 
have been caused by water coming in through the broken hopper at the top of their guttering 
or via the neighbours roof.
Mr and Mrs P insisted there was damage to their roof and that water was getting in through 
it, making the internal damage worse. Lloyds carried out another survey of the damage in 
May 2019. That identified damage to the roof structures of both the main and conservatory 
roofs. It recognised that there was water coming in directly through the roof. 
Lloyds advised that it couldnt carry out the repairs to Mr and Mr s Ps roof until the 
neighbour had their roof repaired. But Mr and Mrs P were anxious that in the meantime the 
damage was getting worse and no effective temporary repair had been carried out. The 
upstairs electrics were turned off as they were unsafe to use. And Mr P suffers from ill health 
which was aggravated by damp.
Lloyds attempted to find a contractor to carry out temporary repair to the roof but eventually 
left this to Mr P to arrange through his own contractor in early July 2019.
The neighbours roof was eventually repaired by early August and Lloyds contractor came 
out to repair Mr and Mrs Ps roof., But it would only carry out a patch repair since it said the 
rest of the main roof wasnt damaged except for some wear and tear issues.
Mr and Mrs P complained about the long time they had been left with an unrepaired roof and 
felt that Lloyds should have done more to chase the neighbours insurers. The neighbour 
had scaffolding up with a tin hat for two months before the repairs were done but Lloyds 
wouldnt agree to share the cost to cover their property. They also felt that they had been 
forced to make a claim against their neighbour under their legal expenses insurance which 
caused difficulties with the neighbour.
Lloyds agreed that its customer service fell short and offered £150 compensation, but it 
insisted that the patch repair was sufficient.
Mr and Mrs P advised that water was still coming in despite the patch repair. They got 
quotes from local contractors, who identified that both the roofs needed complete 
replacement.
On referral to this service our investigator proposed that Lloyds pay Mr and Mrs P a cash 
settlement to cover the replacement of both roofs, for alternative accommodation while the 
repairs were carried out, for the increased cost of utilities and extra costs incurred while they 
were out of the house. He proposed that Lloyds increase its compensation offer to £350.
Lloyds agreed to the investigators proposals and to pay Mr and Mrs P a cash settlement for 
the lower of their two quotes. It reconsidered the compensation and offered to increase this 
to £1,200. Mr and Mrs P were happy with the offer but not with the proposed compensation 
which they didnt feel adequately reflected what they had gone through. 
I understand that since then the repairs have been carried out and Mr and Mrs P have 
received satisfactory payments from Lloyds to cover that and their other expenses, so only 
the compensation is now an issue.    
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.                                
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the claim has now been settled satisfactorily, this decision concerns only the amount of 
compensation that should be paid. I should point out that I havent taken account of Mr Ps 
dealings over the legal expenses part of his policy, and the pursuing of the neighbour as that 
was dealt with by a different insurer. 
Mr and Mrs Ps major complaint is about the length of time this matter took to be dealt with 
and the fact that during that time they were forced to live in a damp home with no electricity 
to the first floor. Mr P says he had to spend all his time chasing matters up and trying to 
persuade Lloyds to carry out work and co-operate with the neighbours insurer.
I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs P  it must have been very frustrating for them. But whilst 
they undoubtedly suffered a great deal of stress and inconvenience because of the tree 
failing onto their home, I can only award compensation to the extent that this was 
aggravated by Lloyds actions, or failure to act. Mr and Mrs P refer to having had to cancel a 
birthday party for Mrs P and having to rearrange the celebration of their sons birthday. Since 
those events took place early in the claim, there was little that Lloyds could have done about 
it, and they were in my view an unfortunate result of the claim itself.
I think Lloyds first assessment of the damage to the roof was rather dismissive - it said no 
damage was caused to the flat roof. It couldnt explain the fact that rain was coming into 
Mr and Mrs Ps property and surmised that it must have come through the hopper or through 
the neighbours flat roof. Mr P contacted Lloyds several times insisting that the damage was 
getting worse. Lloyds eventually sent out contractors who assessed that the roof needed 
repair. They came out in late May to start the repairs, but then advised that these couldnt be 
done until the neighbours roof was repaired.
I think Lloyds position in this respect was reasonable, but I dont think that, knowing Mr Ps 
health problems, it took enough steps to ensure that the roof was at least not leaking any 
more. Ive seen references to the loss adjusters trying to get a roof contractor but without 
success and leaving it to Mr P to arrange. Given that the damage was likely to get worse I 
think Lloyds, with its access to a network of repairers, could have taken more action whilst 
waiting for the neighbours roof to be repaired. 
As for whether Lloyds could have taken more action to chase up the neighbours insurer, it took a number of phone calls and Mr P chasing matters, before Lloyds approached that 
insurer who regrettably couldnt or wouldnt discuss any details. I believe there was an 
approach to share the cost of the scaffolding with the neighbours insurer, but, as Mr and 
Mrs Ps roof was deemed to need only a patch repair, Lloyds wouldnt agree to that. My view 
is that Lloyds could have been more responsive to Mr P, but ultimately there was little they 
could do to chase things up.
Mr P had temporary repairs done in early July. I understand that he property dried out 
naturally by the end of August when the initial roof repairs were done. I dont think that 
Lloyds communicated with Mr and Mrs P adequately about this  it appears that they didnt 
know only a patch repair was to be done until the contractors arrived. Lloyds then advised 
Mr P that any other damage to the roof was the result of general wear and tear, despite it 
being just ten years old.
After the repair was done Mr and Mrs P noticed damp coming through again. And when they 
obtained quotes from local contractors the patch repair was seen to be faulty. The report 
Lloyds obtained in May 2019 advised that the structure of both roofs was affected by the tree 
impact so its difficult to understand why only a patch repair was deemed necessary. When 
this was put to Lloyds, it did to its credit pay for the full repairs to the roofs, for alternative 
accommodation whilst the repairs were done and for Mr and Mrs Ps expenses whilst out of 
their home and excess gas and electricity payments.
Ive taken account generally of the effects on Mr Ps health, though I havent seen any 
specific medical reports. I do think that Mr and Mrs P were made to live in uncomfortable 
conditions for longer than was necessary, that Mr P had to a lot more chasing up than he 
should have had to and that the roof repairs werent assessed properly. I think Lloyds should 
be given credit for acting as it did to resolve the claim. Overall I think a payment of £1,200 is 
a fair and reasonable award of compensation. It takes into account the seriousness of the 
position and is in line with awards we have made in similar cases. If Lloyds hadnt offered 
that amount I wouldnt have awarded a higher figure. 
Putting things right
Lloyds has already put things right following the investigators view so far as the claim is 
concerned. I think Lloyds should now make a payment of £1,200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to Mr and 
Mrs P £1,200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman