The complaint
Miss S says Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about 4 payday loans Quidmarket provided to Miss S between November 
2018 and May 2019. Details of the 4 loans are as follows:
Loan Date started Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment
1 10/11/2018 28/12/2018 5 300 98.18
2 02/01/2019 25/01/2019 3 400 193.56
3 29/01/2019 26/04/2019 6 500 162.29
4 07/05/2019 26/06/2019 2 400 253.69
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ss complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. Quidmarket disagrees with this assessment. It says the adjudicator made their 
decision on the simplistic basis that the 4th loan was not affordable simply because it was 
the 4th loan. It says there is no evidence to show Miss S was struggling to repay her loans. It 
also adds that Miss Ss overall unsecured borrowing reduced from loan 1 to loan 4. 
So as Miss S and Quidmarket still cannot agree, the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1740922the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidmarket was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate Quidmarket needed to do 
more when it approved loans 1-3. This was early on in the lending relationship between the 
two parties. The repayments for the 3 loans also would have seemed affordable based on 
what Miss S had told Quidmarket. So I dont think at this stage, Quidmarket was wrong to 
give these three loans to Miss S.
However as our adjudicator explained, by loan 4 the pattern of Miss Ss borrowing showed 
that she was showing signs that she was struggling to repay her borrowing: 
Loan 4 was for £400. This amount was more than the first loan Miss S took out with 
Quidmarket and the amounts she had borrowed up to this point had not decreased. 
Miss S had not made any inroads into the amount she was borrowing from 
Quidmarket having paid back 3 loans over a 6 month period, and she was now 
asking for a 4th.Miss S was borrowing again shortly after she repaid her loans. She asked for loan 2
only 5 days after repaying loan 1. She asked for loan 3 only 4 days after repaying
loan 2. And now she was asking for loan 4, only 12 days after she had repaid loan 3.
This shows me that at this point, she was most likely unable to repay her previous
loan without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in her
finances.
I think when I consider all of these two points together, it shows that there was a significant 
risk that Miss S would be unable to meet her repayments for loan 4 because she was 
showing signs that she was struggling to repay in a sustainable way. She has not making 
any inroads in repaying the capital she kept asking for and was asking for it shortly after she 
had repaid her previous loan and this pattern was repeated a number of times as I have 
explained above. So I think Quidmarket was wrong to approve loan 4 and it needs to put 
things right. 
I acknowledge Quidmarkets comments about Miss Ss overall short term lending reducing 
but these comments dont change my decision that I partially uphold Miss Ss complaint 
about loan 4.
putting things right  what Quidmarket needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Miss Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to take off tax from this interest. Quidmarket 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. Stagemount Limited 
(trading as Quidmarket) should pay Miss S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman