DRN-2766990
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy that Soteria Insurance Limited gave them incorrect information 
when they claimed under their contents insurance, resulting in a premium increase. Mr G 
and Mrs G had home insurance in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr G.
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his contents insurance following the theft from his car of items 
valued at £2500. Soteria accepted the claim. Later, a claims handler called Mr G to say that 
as his car was unattended at the time of the theft, his claim limit was £1,000. He said that, 
before progressing with the claim, he checked that his no claims discount (NCD) and future 
premiums would be unaffected by his claim, and that an excess wouldnt be deducted. Mr G 
said Soterias claim handler confirmed all three points, so he went ahead with the claim.
Soteria settled the claim for £1,000 and Mr G asked for confirmation of the points hed 
previously raised. At this point, Soteria confirmed that it had incorrectly told Mr G that his 
NCD and premiums would be unaffected. Mr G complained to Soteria because it had given 
him incorrect information and, since then, his premium more than doubled. He said he 
wouldve withdrawn his claim if hed known. Soteria apologised for giving incorrect 
information about his NCD and sent him £150 compensation in recognition of its error. But it 
said it hadnt told him his premiums wouldnt change. Mr G remained unhappy because he 
would be paying more in premiums over the next five years than he had received in 
settlement for his claim. Soteria offered to accept repayment of the settlement amount and 
withdraw the claim, but it said that it would still be registered as a notification on the 
database. Mr G declined its offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Soteria had paid a fair amount 
in compensation for the error it made, and she didnt think it was responsible for the 
subsequent increase to Mr Gs premiums. 
Mr G disagreed, making three simple points: Soteria made a mistake; it admitted making a 
mistake, and it upheld his complaint. To put this right, Mr G wanted Soteria to cover his loss 
for the five years his claim would affect his premiums. He didnt think Soterias suggestion to 
repay the settlement and withdraw the claim was reasonable. Thats because if Soteria 
hadnt given incorrect information, hed likely have made a claim on his car insurance 
instead, and his home insurance premiums wouldnt have been affected.  
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that the theft occurred, or that Soteria incorrectly told Mr G his NCD 
would be unaffected by his claim. The main issue is that Mr Gs premiums increased after he 
made a claim under his contents insurance, and he thinks Soteria is directly responsible for 
that.
As both parties agree incorrect information was given about the NCD, Ill focus on the issue 
of the premiums change. Although Mr G says Soteria told him his premiums wouldnt be 
affected, after listening to the claims call, Soteria confirmed in its final response to him that 
the premium wasnt discussed. The call isnt available for me to listen to and as Mr G hasnt 
challenged Soteria on that point, Im satisfied that only the NCD issue was discussed.
Mr G said that he wouldnt have gone ahead with his claim if hed known that his NCD would 
be affected. I accept what hes said because it seems he did have the option to claim under 
his car insurance. So, Ive looked at whether Soterias incorrect advice caused him any loss. 
When Mr G contacted Soteria about his claim initially, it wouldve recorded it on the 
database. If hed decided to withdraw the claim and go through his car insurer, Soteria 
wouldve registered it as an incident notification on the database. So, either way, there 
wouldve been a record of the theft.
Before offering a policy, an insurer checks the database and then prices the policy according 
to its assessment of the overall risk. So, even if hed withdrawn the claim, and his NCD 
hadnt been affected, insurers would still have taken the theft into consideration. So, I cant 
reasonably say that Soterias mistake in telling Mr G that his NCD wouldnt be affected 
caused the increase in premiums.
It may help if I explain that the NCD doesnt stop premiums from rising. A NCD doesnt mean 
a claim is ignored when pricing a policy - it provides for a discount on the policyholders 
premiums. A policyholders risk level is calculated taking into consideration any claim or 
incident notification before the NCD is applied. If the base risk is higher, the discount will 
simply be applied to a higher premium. So, the premiums may increase, even after 
withdrawing a claim. For this reason, I cant say that Soteria caused Mr Gs premiums to 
increase. 
That said, its possible that the higher premiums other insurers offered was because of the 
claim he made. If hed known that his NCD would be affected, its likely he wouldve claimed 
under his car insurance. If that had been the case, Soteria wouldve recorded an incident 
notification and his NCD wouldnt have been affected for his home insurance. But it also 
means he wouldnt have received the £1,000 settlement. To put this right, Soteria has 
offered to accept repayment of the £1,000 settlement and to withdraw the claim from the 
database. That would mean Mr G can ask for his premiums to be rerated in light of the 
updated information. Ive thought carefully about its offer and I think its fair. Thats because 
it would put Mr G in the position hed have been in had he withdrawn the claim from the start 
 the database would show an incident, but his NCD wouldnt have been affected. And any 
change in premiums would be based on the record of the theft rather than a claim.
If he were to accept Soterias offer, I do recognise that Mr G may have lost the opportunity to 
make a claim under his car insurance. But the same issues regarding any NCD and 
premiums increase would apply, so I cant fairly say Mr G wouldve been any better off. 
Ive thought about Mr Gs request for Soteria to cover the difference in the cost of his policy 
for the next five years, based on a claim-free status. I see why he thinks thats an option that 
should be available to him based on his assumption that being claim-free would keep his 
premiums down. But its not fair to ask Soteria to compensate him for future premiums over 
which it has no control or responsibility. Circumstances and risk assessment criteria change, and it wouldnt be possible to determine what, if any, part of the claim had a direct effect on 
his premiums. Mr G declined Soterias offer to amend his record on the database on return 
of the £1,000 settlement, so I dont think its fair to expect Soteria to also pay any additional 
cost as if he hadnt made the claim.
Mr G summarised his complaint as Soteria admitting it made a mistake and I see that it paid 
him £150 for the shortfall. Im satisfied that the payment is fair in recognition of the mistake it 
made, because I cant see that it caused Mr G any loss. Im not asking Soteria to pay any 
more. 
In summary, Mr G made a claim for the theft of items from his car. While he may have 
decided to claim through another policy had Soteria given him correct information, the fact is 
that the theft occurred, and it wouldve been reported in some way on the database for other 
insurers to consider when calculating risk. I cant fairly say that making a claim on another 
policy wouldve given him a different outcome, and I think Soteria has handled his complaint 
fairly by compensating him for the mistake it made and offering to remove the claim from the 
database on return of the settlement. Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and Im not 
asking Soteria to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman