DRN-3467683
The complaint
W is a limited company of which Mr C is a director. He brings the complaint on Ws behalf.
The complaint is that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has debited the company 
account without the proper authority to do so. 
What happened
A cheque for £8,336.62 was issued on behalf of W in December 2019 for the purpose of 
paying off a debt held at a different bank (which Ill refer to as B). Theres no dispute as to 
whether this cheque was properly issued and authorised at the time.
The cheque was received by B and the balance of the account was recorded as settled. The 
account continued to operate as normal from there on.
NatWest wrote to Mr C, in his capacity as director of W, in September 2020 to say there had 
been a problem with the cheque. It said:
Because of a technical issue, B havent yet been able to debit the cheque you sent from 
your account detailed on the back of this letter, however the payee did receive the funds.
The letter went on to confirm the funds would be taken from the NatWest account between 
5 and 9 October 2020. It asked Mr C to contact NatWest if there were any issues and 
advised it was important to ensure there was enough money in the account to cover the 
value of the cheque.
Mr C got in touch with the bank right away to question what was happening. He says he 
asked for the cheque to be stopped. But the money debited the NatWest account on 
8 October 2020.
Mr C then complained on behalf of W. He said the money had been taken without proper 
authority. He said that B had confirmed it had received the money, evidenced by the cleared 
balance, and so it was clear that NatWest ought not have debited Ws account.
Mr C spoke to and corresponded with NatWest several times but didnt receive an 
explanation he was satisfied with. And NatWest ultimately said it hadnt done anything wrong 
in debiting Ws account when it did. Unhappy with that response, Mr C brought Ws 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought NatWest ought to have given 
a clearer explanation of what had happened and so said W ought to receive £50 in 
compensation. But he found it was right for NatWest to have debited the account as the 
funds hadnt been removed at the time the cheque was paid to B.
The investigator obtained evidence that he was satisfied demonstrated the debt with B was 
cleared by way of the cheque sent by W. That evidence included matching the cheque 
reference number recorded across the accounts and to the original cheque itself.
NatWest accepted the findings, but Mr C disagreed and maintained that because B had 
shown the debt as settled there was no reason or right to debit Ws account. The complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
I contacted Mr C before issuing this decision to request some further evidence from him. I 
explained that I could only see one debit of the £8,336.62 on Ws account, albeit in 
October 2020 and much later than one might expect, in respect of the cheque. And there 
was only one corresponding credit of that sum to the account with B. On that basis I asked 
Mr C to show hed settled the account with B another way. That was because hed said hed 
paid the debt by other means as the cheque wasnt going through at the time.
Mr C did respond but without comment on this point and he provided no further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ws complaint as I dont find NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in debiting Ws account when it did. Ill explain why.
Theres no doubt that the timeline for the payment of the cheque has been unusual. It is 
reasonably expected that a cheque will be paid without delay, once its been through the 
appropriate clearing process. Generally speaking, that means such a payment debits the 
paying account and credits the payee account within around a week. That didnt happen 
here. The reasons why are unclear. Neither NatWest nor B have been able to clearly explain 
what happened, other than to say there was a technical issue. But it isnt necessary for me 
to determine exactly what went wrong. Instead, Im considering whether W has suffered a 
loss as a result of any error and, if it has, what should be done to put things right.
Ive been through historic statements for Ws NatWest account and for the account held with 
B. Its evident that B registered the debt as having been paid in December 2019 following 
receipt of the cheque. Thats to be expected, given its when the cheque was issued. There 
is no other corresponding or like-for-like credit to the account at any point, including when 
NatWest debit Ws account in October 2020. So the money hasnt credited the account at, or 
been sent to, B twice. Its also worth saying here that B has never made any further claim for 
the money, or pursued Mr C for an outstanding debt linked to the cheque or balance it was 
to settle.
Ws NatWest statements show the cheque didnt debit the account when it was received by 
B, despite the debt being recorded as paid. There is no debit from Ws account in 
December 2019. Nor is there a debit at any other time, until October 2020, after NatWest 
wrote to Mr C about the technical issues. 
NatWests letter clearly explained that the payee had received the funds, but that the cheque 
hadnt debited the account. And so NatWests letter accurately reflects what is evidenced by 
the statements. There has only ever been one debit and one corresponding credit in relation 
to the cheque. And the payment at both banks is clearly tied to the cheque issued on behalf 
of W, given the matching cheque reference number.
The fact that B may have recorded the payment received and the debt settled in 
December 2019 doesnt change things here. Im satisfied that Ws account wasnt debited 
when it ought to have been. Whilst unusual, it is only fair that those funds be properly 
debited from Ws account to reflect the payment from NatWest to B. Otherwise the debt with 
B will have been cleared despite no funds debiting any other account. 
Mr C, on behalf of W, hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show the balance with B 
was settled in any other way, or from any other account. This isnt surprising given that it is 
evident the debt was settled by way of the cheque issued in December 2019. 
This means there has been no double payment of the debt to B. There has been no 
duplicated debiting of Ws account. And there has been no financial loss to W. Its only a 
case of the credit to one account and the corresponding debit form another being much 
further apart than one would expect.I know Mr C feels that NatWest should have stopped the cheque when he got in touch 
following the September 2020 letter. Indeed, the letter did say that Mr C should let the bank 
know if there was reason for the cheque to be stopped. But given my finding that it was right 
for NatWest to debit the account when it did, it follows that it was right that it didnt attempt to 
stop the cheque. That remains true regardless of what instruction Mr C may have given at 
the time.
Our investigator recommended NatWest pay W £50 in compensation and the bank agreed 
with this. Its important to remember that the complainant here is W, and not Mr C. W is a 
limited company and so cant suffer distress, only inconvenience. I dont doubt that some 
inconvenience has been caused to W here and it has been necessary for Mr C to seek 
clarification on its behalf. But as I cant see that the bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
I make no further award of compensation and leave it for Ws agents to decide whether it 
wishes to accept the existing offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold the main part of Ws complaint. Its now for Mr C to decide if he wishes to 
accept the £50 compensation on behalf of W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman