DRN-3313524
The complaint
Mr R complains that Better Retirement Group Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to transfer two  
defined benefit occupational pension schemes (OPSs) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP).
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint. She set out the background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why she thought it should be upheld in her 
assessment, which she sent to both parties.
In summary, she said Mr Rs financial advising firm (which I will refer to as firm A) engaged a 
pension transfer specialist, Better Retirement Group, (BRG) to provide advice to Mr R on his 
two deferred benefit OPSs.
In May 2016 Firm As adviser completed a fact find which noted the following about Mr
R:
He was married and in his mid-fifties
He had a mortgage of £94,000 and additional debt of £9,000. He had a surplus 
monthly income of £1,200 per month
His attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed as Medium
He wanted to retire fully at age 65 on an income of approximately £20,000 per year
He expected this income to be made up of his existing pensions, along with his wifes 
income and both of their state pensions
His other financial goals were recorded as paying off some of his mortgage and debt, 
and to ensure his wife was provided with an income in the event of his death.
Mr R had two defined benefit OPSs (which I will refer to as OPS1 and OPS 2), and a small 
personal pension plan.
OPS1 had a transfer value of just over £160,000 at the point of the advice. It provided a 
deferred pension of approximately £5,500. Mr R had the option to take tax-free cash and a 
reduced income, and it also provided a spouses pension of £2,700 a year.
OPS2 entitled Mr R to a pension of £2,800 from age 65. It included contracted out benefits 
which gave rise to a Guaranteed Minimum Pension. The transfer value was approximately 
£65,000 which included an enhancement.
BRG completed a Transfer Value Analysis report (TVAS). And a recommendation report was 
sent to Mr R advising him to transfer both OPSs to a SIPP.  
Firm A completed the SIPP application process. OPS 2 was transferred into the SIPP and 
invested through a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) in December 2016. There were some 
delays with completing the required paperwork for OPS1. It was finally transferred into the 
SIPP and then with the DFM in June 2017. An updated transfer report was completed 
because of the delay, based on the same information and with the same recommendation.
Mr R took tax-free lump sums from the SIPP of £19,000 in February 2017, and a further 
£43,000 in July 2017. No income was initially taken, but he started making withdrawals in 
2019, before the DFM went into administration.
The investigator said that the main issue for her to determine was whether the advice to 
transfer the OPSs was suitable for Mr R. She noted that the industry regulator had a specific 
rule that advisers needed to take into account when giving advice about transferring out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme. This was COBS 19.1.6 which provided:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. 
The investigator said the starting point was therefore to assume a transfer wasnt suitable, 
unless it could be clearly demonstrated it was in Mr Rs best interests. She also noted that 
the FCA issued an alert for firms advising on transfers from defined benefit schemes in 
January 2013. This alert clearly said firms must not make generic comparisons and must 
consider where the funds would be invested and the likely expected returns of the assets. 
She said as the transfer specialist, the regulator clearly put responsibility for both areas on 
BRG.
The benefits Mr R had accrued with the two OPSs were relatively secure and accounted for 
more than half of the retirement income Mr R was aiming for. The investigator said it 
appeared that Mr R was also relying on his wifes income in retirement. However there were 
no details recorded of how old she was or what that income might be. So she didnt know 
when the benefits would be available to Mr R and if they matched his needs.
The investigator said that the OPSs would have provided spouses pensions and death 
benefits to Mr Rs wife. Mr R was also relying on his state pension in retirement, however he 
could not draw this until he was 66. As he wanted to retire fully at age 65 this left a shortfall.
The investigator said that the benefits Mr R already had in place were valuable. She said as 
the OPSs formed such a large part of Mr Rs income in retirement there needed to be a 
significant chance of improving on those benefits to demonstrate the transfer was in his best 
interests.
The critical yields required on the transfer values at the time of advice showed Mr R would 
need annual investment growth of 11.06% in relation to OPS1 and 6.91% in relation to 
OPS2 simply to match the existing scheme benefits at age 65. The updated critical yield for 
OPS 1 referred to in the April 2017 report was 10.01%.
The investigator said the advice was given during the period for which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' for use in loss assessments resulting 
from the industry-wide Pensions Review. She said whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, she thought they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
when the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate was 3.5%; so the rates required on the transfer values from the OPSs 
were significantly above it. 
The investigator said the yields required to simply match the benefits from the OPSs were 
too high. She said in order to make a transfer financially worthwhile the expected returns 
would need to be in excess of that required to match the OPS benefits, otherwise there 
would be no point in transferring. The investigator thought the opportunity to improve on the 
benefits that would otherwise have been provided by the OPSs was limited.  
She said she didnt think the yields required were achievable bearing in mind Mr Rs time to 
retirement, his noted medium attitude to risk and the target investment return from his 
intended DFM portfolio of 5% per annum. She said that in order to obtain a return greater 
than the critical yields each year, a higher risk would have needed to have been taken. She 
said given he was noted as a medium risk investor, with reference to a specific model (and 
his individual answers seemed to suggest he had less appetite for risk than that), Mr R 
wasnt willing to take the degree of risk required. And she said that in any event, Mr R didnt 
have the capacity to accept the risks involved. Mr R had specifically confirmed his capacity 
for loss was none or very limited, i.e. 0-5%, which would not sensibly support this 
recommendation.
The investigator went onto consider other reasons why the transfer could have been in Mr 
Rs best interests. She said the goal of paying off some of Mr Rs mortgage with a tax-free 
cash withdrawal was prioritised. However she said his income and expenditure statement 
showed his monthly mortgage payment to be well within his affordability. There were no 
further details recorded to show why it needed to be paid off at that particular time. The 
investigator said the adviser should have fully considered the alternatives available to deal 
with the mortgage.
The investigator said the benefits on death had also featured as a justification for transfer. 
However she said it was noted that Mr R was in good health and he had declined to take a 
whole of life policy.
She also noted that the recommendation report had referred to the enhanced transfer value 
as a significant reason for transferring. However she said the enhancement had been 
taken into account in the critical yield, and she didnt think a client should be advised to 
transfer if the risk involved was greater than the client should have been expected to take.
Overall the investigator didnt think the transfer value represented good value for money 
based on the investment returns required or Mr Rs objectives. She didnt think there were 
good reasons for Mr R to transfer and give up the guaranteed benefits hed been entitlement 
to.
The investigator said she didnt think BRG should have recommended Mr R transfer his 
pensions as it wasnt in his best interest. So she thought that Mr Rs complaint should be 
upheld.
BRG didnt agree with the investigators findings. It provided a full explanation of its policies 
and processes regarding advising on transfers from defined benefit pension schemes, in 
particular when it was dealing with clients from Firm 1. 
It said the adviser had completed full due diligence on the DFM and the asset allocation of 
its portfolios. Information about the DFMs behaviour wasnt available at that time. It said the 
FCA had confirmed there were valid reasons for some clients transferring out of defined benefit schemes. Its adviser had started from the assumption that a transfer wasnt suitable, 
but on reviewing all the circumstances deemed a transfer to be in Mr Rs best interest.
It said Mr R had stated a desire for a yearly income of £20,000 in retirement.  So ignoring the 
transferred funds, Mr R and his wife were each entitled to a full state pension Mr R had a 
small defined contribution scheme and his wife had some other small defined benefit 
(approx. £2,000). It said as Mr Rs wife was still working there were a number of ways of 
addressing the 12-month shortfall between Mr Rs intended retirement age and his state 
pension being payable. 
BRG said the COBS rules required it to demonstrate that the transfer was in the clients best 
interests. It said this wasnt the same a significant chance of improving the benefits. It said 
the critical yield reflected the cost of buying the OPS benefits in todays economic 
conditions. This included ultra-low interest rates which might change when conditions 
returned to the long term norm. It said if the critical yield reflected the target investment 
return required then a higher risk would have needed to be taken. But it said it did not. It said 
the critical yield didnt inform or allow clients to understand the risks they were taking  
whereas the income drawdown cash flow reports which it provided to Mr R did; they 
provided a like for like comparison.
BRG said the pension review discount rate the investigator had referred to (of 3.5%) was a 
net figure after charges. Its cashflow modelling used a 5% gross return  which reasonably 
related to the 3.5% net figure. It said Mr R wasnt necessarily looking for a higher income as 
shown by his stated desired retirement income. It said its modelling showed the same 
benefits that were payable from OPS 1 and 2 could be paid from the personal pension 
following transfer until age 88 and 99 (assuming a 5% yearly return). And it could be seen 
from the drawdown report that with a 5% gross return (similar to the discount rate) Mr R 
would achieve greater value. It said the significant losses suffered by Mr R were as a result 
of the fraudulent actions of the DFM.
BRG said it thought the transfers passed the mathematical criteria which allowed it to go 
onto consider the soft facts; Mr Rs financial planning desires and objectives and decide if a 
transfer was suitable. It said although Mr R had a medium attitude to risk his stated capacity 
for loss was relatively small. However it said this was more his attitude to it rather than a 
reflection of his retirement income need; his desire for £20,000 was largely covered by his 
and his wifes state pensions and his wifes small defined benefit scheme. It said Mr R 
wanted to utilise his tax-free cash as soon as possible but not take any income until 
retirement. Mr R was clear about his objective to reduce his mortgage. 
Mr R, through his representative, said he agreed with the investigators assessment.
The investigator considered what BRG had said but wasnt persuaded to change her view 
that the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, that although BRG had 
discounted the critical yield as a measure of suitability, she thought it was a valuable 
benchmark that could be used to see whether the transfer value offered value for money. 
She said in this case the yield clearly showed it did not. 
She said the DFM was a complex solution that carried inherent additional risks which werent 
compatible with Mr Rs agreed attitude to investment risk, his lack of investment experience, 
and his express lack of appetite and capacity to take that risk. The investigator accepted 
there may have been later developments in the relationship with the DFM that may not have 
been foreseeable. However the investigator said BRG had specifically endorsed the 
investment choice in its recommendation. And she said if the transfer hadnt been 
recommended Mr R wouldnt have been in the position he was.The investigator said although the main rational for the transfer was to access the tax-free 
lump sum, this didnt appear to be an immediate need. The lump sum was to be used to 
repay some or all of Mr Rs mortgage. Yet the fact-find recorded that Mr R had a significant 
amount of disposable income and his mortgage repayments only represented just over 11% 
of his income. The investigator said that the mortgage was comfortably affordable, and no 
evidence had been recorded about its term or whether there was an immediate need to 
repay it. The investigator didnt think the evidence showed Mr R needed to pay off his 
mortgage, or that there was the level of evidence required to demonstrate that a transfer was 
in Mr Rs best interest as required by the regulator. 
The investigator also thought there was a lack of information about Mr Rs wifes finances. 
Although the recommendation to transfer placed reliance on some of her guaranteed 
benefits no information had been recorded at to what that income would be or when it would 
become available. The investigator said it wasnt therefore possible to say what the overall 
income position would be in retirement if Mr R transferred his OPS benefits. 
The investigator didnt think the evidence showed Mr R needed to pay off his mortgage, or 
that there was the level of evidence required to demonstrate that a transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interest as required by the regulator. So she didnt think the contemporaneous evidence 
clearly demonstrated that a transfer was in Mr Rs best interest. 
As the parties couldnt agree Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld, and largely for the same reasons.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
As the investigator said, the upshot of COBS 19.1.6 is that the advisers starting position 
should have been to assume that a transfer wouldnt be suitable for Mr R. There would then 
need to be good reasons to decide that a transfer was in Mr Rs best interest. 
The pension accrued in the two OPSs represented approximately 20 years of service Mr R 
had accrued in those two schemes. They were estimated to provide a total pension of over 
£11,000 a year at retirement date, with annual increases on that starting figure. So this was 
a significant and largely guaranteed yearly income. 
BRG said Mr R had indicated he wanted a joint annual income of £20,000 in retirement, and 
that this was already largely met by Mr and Mrs Rs State pension provision along with some 
other small defined benefit pension that Mrs R had accrued. I also understand Mr R had a 
small defined contribution pension. 
So the position before BRGs advice was that Mr R was a deferred member of both OPSs, 
and if he had done nothing and stayed in those two schemes, he and his wife could have 
expected an income of around £30,000 in total once all their pensions were in payment. The 
vast majority of this income would have had yearly increases. Therefore Mr R was seemingly 
in a very healthy position in terms of his expected income throughout his lifetime in 
retirement.So I think the obvious question is why transfer? Mr R already appeared to be in a good 
position. He was set up to enjoy a comfortable retirement. I think there would need to be a 
very good reason to do something that put that position at risk and it be in Mr Rs best 
interest  as reflected in the COBS rules. 
BRG has said Mr R wanted to obtain access to the tax-free lump sum from his pension to 
pay off some of his mortgage. Whilst I accept that Mr R may have gained some comfort in 
having paid off (or largely paid off) his mortgage, the cost was putting a significant 
proportion of his retirement provision at risk. Transferring could have a major impact on his 
standard of living throughout retirement.
The recommendation letter said that alternative sources of capital raising had been explored 
but discounted. But as the investigator said, there were no reasons given as to why the 
mortgage needed repaying immediately other than Mr R had indicated he would like to pay it 
off. Mr R had a significant monthly disposable income and theres no evidence on file to 
show monthly overpayments to the mortgage were explored or how this income could help 
pay of the other debts. 
The other reason put forward for the transfer was to improve the capital death benefits and 
to leave any remaining funds to Mr Rs wife and his family on his death. The fact find 
completed didnt provide any details of what provision Mr Rs wife had in terms of life cover 
either privately or though her employment. Neither did it provide details of what cover Mr R 
had, again including through his employment. I accept such cover may have ended when 
ceasing employment. But Mr R could have remained in his OPSs until near to retirement 
date and then considered the transfer options at that point, without being exposed to several 
years of investment risk.
I accept that the death benefits from a personal pension can appear attractive against the 
spouses benefits provided by the OPS.  But that has to be balanced against the costs of a 
transfer and giving up the largely guaranteed benefits that would otherwise be provided by 
the OPSs. If this was one of the main reasons for recommending a transfer, I think Mr and 
Mrs Rs existing life cover provision needed to be considered in detail. Im not satisfied on 
the evidence provided that it was. I accept that BRG was only advising on a transfer. But 
there were significant risks and consequences associated with transferring out of the OPSs. 
BRG was required to obtain such information as was necessary to understand the essential 
facts about Mr Rs circumstances and enable it to have a reasonable basis for believing its 
recommendation to transfer was suitable. In my view BRG failed to obtain sufficient 
information about Mr R and his wifes circumstances to conclude that taking on the risks 
associated with the transfer was suitable on death benefit grounds.
Both OPSs provided spouses pensions for life. The death benefits from the SIPP would 
depend on its value on Mr Rs death, and whilst they may initially have appeared superior 
following a transfer ultimately they depended on the subsequent investment performance of 
the funds and Mr and Mrs Rs longevity.
BRG has said the risks of the transfer were aligned to Mr Rs medium attitude to risk and his 
capacity to accept risk. Its said that the 5% gross return as shown in its cashflow modelling 
showed that Mr R could match the benefits from the OPS. It said with charges this was 
comparable to the 3.5% discount figure. And effectively this was a better indication of the 
return required than the critical yield calculated by the TVAS.
I accept that the validity of whatever tool is used to compare the comparative benefits of an 
OPS with a personal pension will depend on the appropriateness of the assumptions behind 
it. However, in my view the critical yields provided a good indication of whether the transfer values offered good value for money relative to the value of all the benefits being given up in 
the OPSs. They reflected the rates of return required to replace those guaranteed benefits 
on a like for like basis outside of the schemes. I accept that the firm considers they are 
unrepresentative given in part to the historically low annuity rates prevailing. However, in my 
view they, in effect, show the intrinsic value of benefits that are guaranteed, and for life. The 
critical yields showed it was highly unlikely the transfer values would be able to match the 
value of the OPSs benefits on an ongoing basis. The regulator thought critical yields were 
relevant at the time and I agree.
BRGs cashflow modelling projections showed that if investment returns were 5% the SIPP 
could match the income from the OPS until Mr R reached his late 80s in one scheme and 
late 90s in the other. It also showed that if investment returns were 2% then it could match 
the two OPSs income until age 82 and 88. But then the funds would be depleted and the 
income run out. 
So even if I accepted BRGs view that the 5% cash flow modelling figure was a better 
representation of the investment risk involved, Mr R was still subject to that investment risk 
and only matching the OPSs benefits. And there was the risk that Mr R (and his wife) would 
live longer than assumed in the modelling and again the income run out. 
However, the feasibility of achieving a particular rate of return alone wouldnt in any case be 
sufficient in itself to indicate suitability. The rate of return has to be considered in the context 
of all the circumstances, and consideration given to the effects of accepting that risk against 
the benefits of a transfer. 
Mr R was recorded as a medium risk investor. However, in the risk questionnaire that Mr R 
completed he said he agreed with the statement that he would rather know he was getting a 
guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about his investments. He also agreed that 
compared to the average person he took lower financial risks and that he did not feel 
comfortable with financial uncertainty. In answer to the question How much of this 
investment could you stand to lose without having a significant impact on your future 
standard of living he indicated None or very limited losses (0 -5%). 
BRG has said Mr Rs statement about capacity for loss was his attitude to it rather than a 
reflection of his retirement income need. However, his statement appears to be consistent 
with his responses to the other questions on the risk questionnaire  he wasnt comfortable 
accepting significant risks. Although Mr R had said he wanted an income of approximately 
£20,000, that would still only be a modest income by the time Mr R reached retirement age. I 
dont think that meant he had the capacity to lose the additional £11,000 that would 
otherwise have provided him with a healthy and guaranteed income for life. Why take that 
risk unless there was a real need or significant benefit in doing so? 
As I explained above, Mr Rs starting position was that he could expect a largely guaranteed 
starting income of around £30,000 which would increase throughout his retirement and be 
payable for his lifetime. His wife would also receive a guaranteed and increasing income 
throughout her lifetime if Mr R pre-deceased her. Mr R would also have been able to take 
tax-free cash from the OPSs when he wanted to take benefits from them. 
So in my view transferring and exposing his pension benefits throughout his retirement to 
investment risk presented significant risk in itself. The critical yield showed that it was highly 
unlikely the value of the SIPP would match the value of the OPSs benefits. Mr R could have 
left his benefits in his OPSs until he had a real need for them and then considered whether a 
transfer was suitable at that time. Im not persuaded that there was an urgent need to access 
the tax-free cash from the pensions. In my view the risks of the transfer to Mr Rs exiting position far outweighed its benefits. Accordingly, I dont think the recommendation to transfer 
was suitable in the circumstances.
BRG has referred to the actions of the DFM and its role in the losses suffered by Mr R. The 
DFM was also a regulated party with its own regulatory responsibilities and obligations. 
There may have been shortcomings in the management of the DFMs portfolio. However, 
BRG were asked to advise Mr R on the merits or otherwise of a transfer. In my view the 
advice was clearly unsuitable given his circumstances. Im satisfied Mr Rs losses flow from 
the unsuitable advice given by BRG to transfer. But for the unsuitable advice to transfer Mr R 
would still have been a member of his defined benefit schemes and his losses would never 
have happened. So, Ive found no break in the chain of causation due to the actions of the 
DFM.
BRG said the COBS rules required it to demonstrate that the transfer was in the clients best 
interests. In my view, for the reasons outlined above, the recommendation to transfer wasnt 
suitable and a transfer wasnt in Mr Rs best interest. 
Putting things right
fair compensation
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr R, as far as possible, back into
the position he would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider he would have
remained a member of OPS1 and OPS2 if given suitable advice to do so.
Better Retirement Group Ltd should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as taxfree cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification ofthe acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. So any period
of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from
DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I understand Mr Rs SIPP may include illiquid investments, meaning they cant be readily
sold on the open market. This means it can be complicated to establish its value.
If this is the case, to calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the
SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs,
and take ownership of the investments.
If BRG is unable to buy the investments, they should give it a nil value for the purposes of
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include
anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the
SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, BRG may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mr R to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement
Group Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman