DRN-2802099
The complaint
Mrs P complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) refusal to consider her claim under 
her contents insurance policy. She wants AXA to settle her claim. 
  
What happened
Mrs P says she lost her wedding and engagement ring while placing her daughters car seat 
into her brothers car. Around two weeks later, Mrs P reported the loss to AXA. The claim 
was investigated by AXA who explained they had concerns about differing accounts of 
events given by Mrs P. They felt Mrs P hadnt provided a reasonable explanation for the 
discrepancies. They said, as they were unable to confirm which, if any, of the events 
described was correct, they were unable to consider the claim further. 
Mrs P complained and said she felt she had provided a reasonable explanation for AXAs 
areas of concern. AXA responded and said the claim had been declined because of 
conflicting information they had received. They said they hadnt received a satisfactory 
explanation for the discrepancies identified so they couldnt overturn the decision to decline 
her claim.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs P. She thought AXA had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim and should reconsider Mrs Ps claim. AXA disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important for me to point out my role isnt to determine the outcome of the claim - 
that responsibility rests with AXA. My role is to determine whether AXA have considered Mrs 
Ps claim fairly and reasonably. My starting point is Mrs Ps home insurance policy, this sets 
out the terms and conditions. The policy describes the process for making a claim and says, 
for lost items, Mrs P must call the police and get a reference number. 
The policy says Mrs P should also take all reasonable steps to recover missing property. 
And, to contact AXA to report the incident. The policy then goes on to describe the steps Mrs 
P must take after she has made a claim. This says she must hand over receipts, invoices 
and photographs to help prove her claim. And, to assist AXA with any enquiries they have 
regarding the claim. 
I can see from the information provided, Mrs P did contact the police and provides AXA with 
the reference number. I think she also took reasonable steps to recover her lost rings by 
going back home to search for them, and by contacting her mum and brother to find out 
whether they had seen them. After further searches of her home proving unsuccessful, Mrs 
P reported her lost rings to AXA and provided receipts and photographs. And, throughout 
AXAs investigation, Mrs P has provided answers to AXAs queries. Taking this all into 
account, I think Mrs P has acted in line with the terms and conditions for making a claim. 
The issue here though is that AXA believe there are discrepancies in the version of events 
given by Mrs P. They say they have refused further consideration of the claim on the 
grounds that Mrs P has not satisfactorily allayed their concerns, and that means they cant 
confirm whether the loss is something covered under the policy. 
When a claim is made, an insurer is entitled to investigate the loss, and ask questions to 
ensure there is cover under the policy for the situation being claimed for. So, I accept that in 
this case, AXA acted fairly by considering Mrs Ps explanation of what happened and asked 
further questions to clarify what happened. 
Mrs P did respond to AXAs further questions. But AXA hasnt moved forward with the claim 
after receiving these. So, Ive thought about whether this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And having done so, I dont think it is.
After being provided with Mrs Ps explanations, Im satisfied AXA should either have 
accepted these explanations, and continued to consider the claim in light of the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, to confirm whether cover was in place. Or, made a 
decision on the claim, based on any terms or conditions they considered meant the claim 
couldnt be accepted under the policy.
At this stage, AXA has said they just arent satisfied the discrepancies have been adequately 
answered. Mrs P doesnt agree and feels the claim should be moved forward. So, Ive 
considered the discrepancies made, and whether Mrs P has provided reasonable answers to 
these, to enable AXA to move forward. 
Mrs Ps brothers involvement    
AXA have said Mrs P didnt say it was her brothers car when she explained what had 
happened to her rings, until the incident had been discussed on a number of occasions. AXA 
say the omission of the brothers involvement is pertinent information as this may be relevant 
to how or where the rings may have been lost. And they have questioned why Mrs P referred 
to the car and her car, rather than noting it was her brothers car when she initially spoke 
to AXA. From the information I can see, AXA didnt ask Mrs P who owned the car, and 
therefore I dont think it was made clear that this was useful and important information. But, 
as above, AXA are entitled to investigate and validate a claim. And so, Im satisfied it was 
fair for AXA to seek clarification on this point, so they could fully understand what had 
happened. 
I agree Mrs P doesnt make reference to her brothers involvement on three occasions while 
describing her account of the event. Ive listened to two calls between Mrs P and AXA. The 
first is the initial notification call during which Mrs P describes the circumstances leading to 
her rings being lost. She says she was leaving her house and going to my car. There is 
then a more detailed call to discuss the circumstances. During this call Mrs P explains she 
was wearing her rings and then walked to the car with her daughters car seat. There are 
further occasions during the call where Mrs P makes reference to the car. Mrs P then 
completes a statement of fact which says she was wearing the rings in the afternoon when 
she put her daughter in her car seat and carried her to the car. 
AXA then instruct a field investigator to prepare a witness statement for Mrs P. This is a 
more detailed account of the circumstances and Mrs P says she carried her daughters car 
seat to her brothers car. But Im satisfied Mrs P has provided AXA with an explanation as to why she didnt mention 
that the car was her brothers and referred to the vehicle in other ways. Mrs P explains she 
has Aspergers Syndrome, and finds speaking on the phone to be overwhelming and 
stressful. And so, this meant that during the call she found it harder to explain what had 
happened  leading her to mention her car and the car instead of highlighting that the 
vehicle was her brothers.
Mrs P has said that when she was able to have a face to face conversation with the field 
investigator, she was less overwhelmed, and was able to go into more detail about the loss, 
and explain it was her brothers car she was putting her daughter in to.
 
From looking at the evidence provided, Im satisfied Mrs P has provided an explanation as to 
why there was conflicting information as to who owned the car. So, at that point, AXA should 
have either accepted this explanation  or referred to a term and condition in the policy they 
had evidence for, to show the claim wasnt covered under the terms of the policy.  
Mrs Ps communication following discovery of her lost rings
AXA has said Mrs P told them she had called her mum and brother on discovering her rings 
were gone. But that when they asked for evidence, Mrs P had actually sent a text message 
instead. And they have questioned this discrepancy. 
Ive looked at the witness statement Mrs P gave. And I can see it says Mrs P couldnt find 
her rings so I rang my brother to see if they had come off in his car and I rang my mum 
to tell her that my rings were missing So, Im aware she did say she had called her family 
members about the matter.
But Im aware that when asked for evidence of these calls, Mrs P provided phone bills, which 
showed no calls were made to her mum and brother following the incident  calls were only 
made before. And I can see that Mrs P then provided AXA with information that it was a text 
message she had sent. AXA have questioned why Mrs P said she phoned her family, but in 
fact the evidence suggests this wasnt the case, and a text message was sent instead. Mrs P 
says her witness statement was two months after the event so, while it does refer to her 
phoning her mum and brother, that was her recollection at the time of the statement. She 
says she knew she had contacted them and assumed it was by phone. She says she only 
realised it was by text message when AXA asked for supporting evidence. 
I understand why AXA have questioned this and asked for clarification on this point. But
Mrs P has explained why she initially said she made a call, when she had in fact sent text 
messages. And I think this explanation was enough for AXA to progress with the claim. 
Mrs Ps testimony is consistent in explaining that she did contact her mum and brother.
And there is contemporaneous evidence which shows there was contact to attempt to find 
her rings. And I think whether this was via the medium of a phone call or a text message is 
immaterial. Both methods achieve the same aim of attempting to find the rings. 
AXA have also questioned the timeline of when Mrs P was said to have contacted her family 
about her missing rings  with AXA appearing to have assumed she immediately made 
contact after she realised the rings were missing. But I cant see Mrs P ever says she 
immediately contacted her mum and brother  the witness statement doesnt describe when 
contact was made. 
Mrs P says she searched for her rings and then contacted her mum and brother. Mrs P says 
she and her friend carried out a thorough search and when they couldnt find the rings, she 
then contacted her mum and brother. Given this, I dont think its unreasonable for it to have taken Mrs P a couple of hours to contact her mum and brother. And Im satisfied Mrs P has 
assisted AXA by providing further information to clarify what happened, and when. 
Mrs Ps rings 
AXA have questioned how Mrs Ps rings were able to come off of her hand. It noted that Mrs 
Ps witness statement says she wears her wedding ring first and then the engagement ring 
as the former is loose and the engagement ring, which fits snuggly, keeps it in place. They 
have asked how the rings would have been able to come off, without Mrs P noticing, with 
them being held into place by a ring fitting snuggly. 
Mrs P says whilst the engagement ring did fit snuggly on her finger, and was tighter than her 
wedding band, she had lost weight since the engagement ring was last re-sized. And 
although it did still fit her well, both rings were able to turn on her finger. So, it would have 
been possible for the rings to come off. 
Given Mrs P did respond to AXAs question about how the rings could have come off, I think 
she has fairly answered AXAs questions. And I cant see there remains conflicting 
information on this. And so, I dont think it was fair for AXA to decline the claim on the basis 
of there being conflicting information about how the rings came off. 
In summary, there are discrepancies in Mrs Ps account, so I dont think it was unreasonable 
for AXA to have sought clarity on the points they did. But Mrs P has provided a reasonable 
explanation for those points. 
I dont think its unreasonable to expect there to be some slight variation between an account 
when given on different dates, and in light of Mrs Ps explanations. But I think Mrs P has 
provided reasonable and satisfactory responses to the discrepancies identified by AXA.
Mrs P did report the loss to the police, and has provided a crime reference number for this, 
in addition to contemporaneous evidence of her trying to recover the items. As well as proof 
of ownership of the items. With this in mind, I think AXA should consider the claim further
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AXA have acted unreasonably in refusing to reconsider Mrs Ps 
claim further in light of the responses she has provided. I consider that Mrs P has provided 
explanations for the above discrepancies. And I cant see AXA has provided any evidence to 
show these explanations werent reasonable, or that the information given showed the loss 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
So, AXA should now reconsider Mrs Ps claim further, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make any other further enquiries they 
feel are necessary but I dont think its reasonable for them to use the arguments they have 
to justify a refusal to consider the claim further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should reconsider 
Mrs Ps claim in light of the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman