DRN-4031338
The complaint
Mr K complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim 
he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mr K reported a claim to LV. Hed been driving with a passenger when he 
crashed into the car in front of him at a roundabout.
LV assessed the damage to Mr Ks car and initially made an offer for its value because it 
said it was a total loss. 
But LV then did further investigations and decided to decline the claim around six months 
after it had been reported. It said there were inconsistencies between the damage to the car 
and the circumstances of the incident. It was also concerned with the lack of detail provided 
by Mr Ks passenger, and that Mr Ks relative (who Mr K said had attended the scene after 
the accident) hadnt been available for interview. 
Mr K complained, but as LV didnt agree to change its position, a complaint was brought to 
this service. 
Our investigator thought LV had acted unfairly in declining the claim. He said Mr K wasnt 
interviewed until around four months after the accident and he wasnt persuaded there had 
been inconsistencies that justified declining the claim. He recommended LV reassess the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms. He also said it should pay £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delay in responding to the claim. 
LV didnt accept that outcome. It said Mr Ks passenger had almost no recollection of the 
surrounding scene of the accident. It also thought it significant that the other driver involved 
in the accident had withdrawn his non-fault claim for damage to their car. It accepted there 
had been delays, but didnt accept any compensation was justified given its concerns.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim under an insurance policy, it is for the insured (so in this case Mr K) to 
show hes suffered a loss that is covered under the policy. If he can do so, then the insurer 
needs to meet the claim, unless any of its policys exclusions apply. In this case, LV has said 
Mr K hasnt shown hes suffered a loss covered by the policy. It isnt persuaded the accident 
has happened in the way Mr K has described.
Having reviewed the matter, Im not persuaded LV has acted fairly in declining the claim. Ive 
explained why below. 
I accept there are some inconsistencies between what Mr K has said, and the third-party 
driver (who Ill refer to as A). But I consider these to be relatively minor details. For 
example, Mr K says he wrote his insurance details down on paper as As phone was out of 
battery. Whereas A said he wrote down Mr Ks details. But they were both consistent in 
saying As phone battery had run out. And as Mr Ks interview took place around four 
months after the incident happened, I think its reasonable that such a minor detail as to who 
wrote down Mr Ks details, may be forgotten. 
LV has also noted Mr K initially said he intended to go straight on at the roundabout, but 
from reviewing Google maps, it actually looks like Mr K took a different exit after the accident 
happened. It says this is inconsistent. Im not persuaded this means Mr K has 
misrepresented how the accident took place. He said after the accident he tried to drive his 
car a short distance but decided it was too damaged, so sought a lift from a relative. This 
doesnt seem unreasonable. 
There are other issues raised by LV, it is concerned that Mr Ks passenger had little 
recollection of the scene of the accident. And that Mr Ks relative didnt want to be formally 
interviewed (although he had spoken to LV). These two factors dont persuade me, in the 
absence of anything else, that the accident didnt happen the way Mr K described. Mr Ks 
passenger said it was late and she wasnt looking at the road when the accident happened 
and that she was also in an unfamiliar area. I think thats plausible.  Mr Ks relative wasnt 
there when the accident happened, he came later, so he wouldnt have any testimony about 
the incident itself anyway. 
LV also has concerns about the actions of A. It says A withdrew his non-fault claim a number 
of months after the accident and it found that suspicious. But that doesnt persuade me that 
Mr K has misled LV. LV hasnt been able to show any link between Mr K and A. So, I 
consider it unfair to link As actions to those of Mr K. Mr Ks claim cant be declined simply 
because A decided not to pursue his. 
I find that there are parts of the statements that are consistent. And the engineers report 
concludes that the damage is consistent with the type of collision reported in this case. The 
report says it doesnt appear Mr Ks car was braking at the time of collision. Mr K says in his 
statement he didnt know what had happened and or how he ended up going into the back of 
the vehicle in front. This suggests to me he wasnt using his brake at the time of collision, so 
I find this is consistent with what the engineers report says. 
Having considered all of the evidence, Im persuaded Mr K has done enough to show hes 
suffered damage to his vehicle which is covered under the policy. So, I consider LV has 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. To put things right it will need to reconsider Mr Ks 
claim, in line with the policy terms. 
LV did provide a hire car to Mr K whilst it investigated the claim, but I still consider it has 
caused Mr K unnecessary distress and inconvenience in unfairly declining the claim at this 
stage. So it will need to pay £150 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited needs to reconsider 
the claim in line with the policy terms. 
It also needs to pay Mr K £150 compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman