DRN-4291157
The complaint
Mr L complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) unilaterally changed the terms of the 
Growth Protector Plan (the plan). He is unhappy about this and feels Zurich has provided 
misinformation about the changes and, despite what it says, that the changes made to the 
plan leave him poorer as a result.
To put things right, Mr L wants Zurich to sort things out if there were errors in the way the 
plan operated and revert to the previous arrangements that had been in place for 50 years.
What happened
Mr L started investing in the plan in 1973. From his point of view, one of the most important 
plan features had always been that the net investment income in the capital unit fund was 
redistributed each December by removing it from the fund and (after deduction of charges) 
adding it to his plan via an allocation of units.
Following a review of the plan, Zurich identified that historically the annual income 
distribution process hadn't always operated as intended and in December 2021 it took 
immediate steps to prevent what it described as the offending process. 
Mr L found out about this when he phoned Zurich on 14 December 2021 to enquire about his 
additional units for 2021. This was followed by an exchange of correspondence between 
Zurich and Mr L. When Zurich was unable to address Mr Ls concerns about the changes to 
the way the plan operated, he complained about what Zurich had done and expressed 
concern that he had been misinformed about why units had been removed from his fund.    
Zurich explained the reasons behind the changes to the plan terms and conditions and the 
effect this would have on the plan in future. Zurich said the value of the plan was unaffected, 
there would be no difference in the amount of charges taken and no change in the amount of 
any underlying investment growth  the difference was simply where and how any 
investment growth would now be recorded. Zurich recognised however that its actions, 
including the length of time it had taken to explain the situation, had resulted in trouble and 
upset for Mr L and paid him £100 compensation.
When our investigator looked into what happened, he explained his role was to look at 
whether Zurich had acted unfairly. Whilst the investigator appreciated that Mr L didnt want 
the plan to change, he didnt feel that Zurich had done anything wrong when making 
changes to the plan.  
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and I have briefly summarised the main concerns he 
has mentioned, as follows:
Mr L says he can never be satisfied until Zurich provides him with detailed 
information showing how the fund performed over 2021, 2022 and 2023 so he can 
calculate and understand whats been happening to his investment in the absence 
of any understandable explanation having been provided
he feels he has been misled by Zurich since he raised his concerns in December 
2021, in particular:
- being told that the reason units were removed from his plan was that the 
fund had had a bad year  Mr L wants to see evidence of this as he says: 
the fund had had its second best performance over the previous ten 
years, and the general level of dividends being paid out was the highest 
ever.
- despite being told there would be no impact on the value of his plan, 
comparable values showed a reduction in the value of his investment since 
December 2021 even though he had continued to pay in around £200 each 
month and all dividends had been transferred to the fund 
Zurich failed to communicate the changes it made in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way as required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
he would like proof to show that Zurich has referred itself to the FCA and he has 
questions about the FCAs role in the matter.
As Mr Ls complaint hasnt been resolved between the parties, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I appreciate how strongly Mr L feels about this complaint. We provide an informal service for 
resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers and this is reflected in 
the way Ive approached the complaint. Whilst Ive summarised some of Mr Ls concerns in 
my own words, Ive carefully read and considered everything both parties have said. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to provide answers to all Mr Ls questions or address all the 
points raised so I wont necessarily mention everything Mr L has brought to my attention. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its my understanding 
that a key part of Mr Ls complaint is that he objects to the changes Zurich made to the way 
it assigns plan dividends, so I've considered this first.  
When thinking about the changes Zurich made to the plan terms and conditions and whether 
Zurich was entitled to make these changes, Ive kept in mind guidance issued by the FCA. 
This says that plan terms and conditions must allow for the change and firms should ensure 
that variation terms in their contracts are transparent and not unfair. There needs to be a 
good reason for the change and Mr L needed to be told about it. He was entitled to expect 
reasonable notice of the change before it was implemented.  
I havent seen anything that suggests to me that Zurich wasnt permitted to change the plan 
terms and conditions as it did. The Growth Protector Plan terms and conditions allow Zurich 
to adjust the basis of determining the plan benefits in certain circumstances. Its review 
showed that the way it was making the annual income distribution meant that the plan had 
grown at a lower rate than should have been the case. So it was reasonable for Zurich to 
take the steps necessary to enable it to make fairer annual distributions  and in its clients 
interests that it did so.  I cant see that Mr L was given any proper notice about this before the changes were made  
but Zurich seems to have already accepted this was a failing on its part when it apologised 
to Mr L and paid him £100 in respect of the shortcomings there had been in the service it 
provided to him on this occasion.  
I appreciate that the changes made by Zurich impact on a plan feature that was particularly 
important to Mr L. But Zurich corrected the historical error by adding units to Mr Ls plan  
boosting his investment. It also explained that the amount of charges taken wont increase 
and the value of the underlying investment will not be affected. Zurich says the only change 
in future will be where and how any investment income is recorded. The value of Mr Ls 
investment might still go up and down as a consequence of market fluctuations. But the 
changes Zurich made to the terms of the plan shouldnt cause Mr L any financial 
detriment in future. I say this because:
Funds often have income units and accumulation units. Any cash produced through 
dividends and interest on underlying holdings will be distributed to unitholders directly 
in the former case, and held within the fund in the latter case.
The way Mr Ls holding in the plan previously worked was similar to having income 
units with an automatic reinvestment function. The amount of income on the 
underlying holdings proportional to Mr Ls unitholding was taken out. After relevant 
charges were deducted, the balance was used to buy more units, as opposed to Mr L 
getting the net income in cash.
As a result of the changes Zurich has made, his holding operates like accumulation 
units. The same charges are deducted but income is never released from the fund.
Given Zurichs admission that it had calculated things wrongly for some time, I can 
understand Mr Ls concern about his investment. But I am satisfied these changes 
dont have any impact on the value of his investment or its ability to grow.
In case it might be helpful, heres another way to look at this. The fund itself contains 
investments, property etc., and cash. That cash grows when investments pay 
dividends or other income. The sum of all those things is the overall value of the fund 
 commonly called the Net Asset Value or NAV. Mr Ls plan, represented by a 
number of units, is a proportion of that overall NAV. 
This isnt something Zurich can manipulate  its a factual valuation of the fund 
assets set by an actuary. Zurich has explained how the unit value changes when 
income is taken out (as was previously the case) but doesnt when the income is 
retained in the fund. This is because when income comes out, the overall NAV is 
lower and so each unit is worth slightly less. When that income is returned to the 
fund, new units are created and so the overall value of the holding remains the same, 
but with more units held at a lower price. This is materially the same as the income 
remaining in the fund throughout, and retaining a lower number of units but at a 
higher unit price (and this is exactly what Zurich has changed).
This can be difficult to see when there are so many other variables and reasons for 
the unit price to change. But I am satisfied that the new treatment of investment 
income hasnt disadvantaged or caused a financial loss to Mr L (or any other 
investor).
Ive also thought about some of Mr Ls other concerns.  After Zurich made changes in December 2021, investment income remained within the 
capital unit fund. This meant the unit price was higher than it would have otherwise been so 
Mr Ls plan didnt lose value because of Zurichs actions. This also explains why there was 
no addition of units to Mr Ls plan in December 2021 as had happened in previous years. 
Zurich publishes information annually about fund performance which investors are able to 
see. I appreciate that Mr L wants to see a lot more detailed information about how the fund 
has performed in recent years, but how businesses choose to operate and the services they 
offer are matters that come under the oversight of the regulator. The regulator sets out the 
type of information funds have to make available to investors and there are rules and 
guidance about this in the FCA Handbook. I havent seen anything to suggest Zurich failed 
here to provide the information it should have done. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to expect Zurich to provide more bespoke detail to individual investors and in 
these circumstances, I cant require Zurich to provide the more detailed performance figures 
that Mr L wants to see here.  
I appreciate that Mr L isnt happy about information he was told over the phone in December 
2021, but being given incorrect information isnt enough of a reason to show that Zurich 
intended to mislead him. There was a further phone call on 27 January 2022 followed by a 
letter from Zurich a few days later explaining why no units were added to Mr Ls plan in 
December 2021, which clarified that fund performance wasnt the underlying reason. 
Zurich also said in 2021 that it introduced annual statements for the Growth Protector Plan 
but these did not confirm the correct details and incorrectly stated a charge of 1.5% on the 
capital unit fund taken daily in the fund prices. It said it would be correcting and improving 
the information shown in the annual statements which seems fair and reasonable to me.
I also asked Zurich for more information about its contact with the FCA. Zurich sent me 
details of its communications with the regulator about this matter and I am satisfied that it 
referred itself to the FCA. So I hope this puts Mr Ls mind at rest on this point. The FCA has 
its own website if Mr L wants to find out more about its role.
To sum up, I find:
Zurich was entitled to make the changes to the plan and correct the information 
reported about the plan on annual statements 
the reasons Zurich has given for making changes to plan and annual statements are 
fair and reasonable 
Zurich has explained the changes and the impact on Mr L reasonably clearly it 
should have done so sooner and explained things better, but the £100 it has paid 
already covers these service failings and I am satisfied that the payment Zurich has 
already made to Mr L is fair compensation overall. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman