DRN-3709501
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Metro Bank PLC, including that they 
didnt complete his request to make a transfer from his account.
What happened
Mr M called Metro Bank to instruct a transfer from his account and request a password to 
enable him to set up internet banking on a new device. Before being able to speak with an 
agent, Mr M was on hold for 40 minutes. When Mr M was able to speak with an agent, he 
instructed the transfer and requested that a password be sent to him. 
Mr M then wanted to end the call as he had to return to work. But Metros agent insisted that 
he remain on the line until the actions hed requested could be inputted and confirmed back 
to him. Mr M therefore left the line open on his phone so that he could work while Metros 
agent inputted his requests. But when he went back to the line, he found that Metros agent 
had disconnected the call. Mr M then learned that Metro hadnt completed the transfer or 
sent the password as instructed. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Metro looked at Mr Ms complaint. They noted their agent had attempted to discuss Mr Ms 
requests with him, but that Mr M hadnt responded. And when Mr M continued to not 
respond, their agent terminated the call and didnt action the requests  and Metro didnt feel 
their agent had acted unfairly towards Mr M by doing so. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Metros 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Metro had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it would be frustrating for Mr M to have had to wait for 40 minutes 
before Metro was able to take his call. However, I dont feel it can be reasonably said that 
Metro acted unfairly towards him regarding this point. This is because Metro cant control 
how many people try to contact them at any one time, and therefore cant control how long 
callers might have to wait until their call can be answered. Additionally, Im also satisfied that 
Metro answered Mr Ms call in the order in which it was received, therefore treating Mr M in 
the same manner as all the other people who were trying to call them, which I feel is fair. 
When Mr M did speak with Metro, he asked them to complete a transfer from his account 
and send a password to him to for internet banking on a new device. Metro have confirmed 
their process in such instances is that the customer must remain active on the line while their 
agent inputs their requests so that any questions the agent may have can be answered and 
in order to confirm the information the agent has inputted before any requests are actioned. 
This process seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Metros requirement that Mr M 
had to stay active on the call is unfair. One reason for this is because Im satisfied that this 
process is designed to avoid the possibility that, for instance, an agent might process a 
transfer with a wrong amount or using incorrect or invalid recipient account details.
But Mr M didnt stay active on the telephone call, and instead returned to work while leaving 
the line open. Ive listened to a recording of this telephone call, and when Mr M asked 
Metros agent if he could leave the line open and return to work, the agent confirmed that 
this wouldnt be acceptable and that Mr M needed to remain active on the line. Mr M then 
said something to the agent which cant be heard on the recording and which the agent also 
advised Mr M they didnt hear. Mr M then says that hell keep the line open, thanks the 
agent, and says goodbye  leaving the line open while returning to work.
Mr M may argue that hed given Metros agent all the information needed to complete the 
transfer and that hed also already requested the password form them. But as explained, it 
was Metros process that Mr M had to remain active on the telephone line if he wanted his 
instructions to be actioned. And Im satisfied that it was incumbent on Mr M to have worked 
within Metros requirements in this regard  which I feel were reasonable  rather than 
expecting Metro to act outside of their process at his request. 
So, when Mr M didnt respond, and then continued to not respond, to Metros agent following 
his leaving the line open and returning to work, I dont feel that Metros agent acted unfairly 
towards him by following Metros process  terminating the call and not actioning Mr Ms 
requests because Mr M hadnt been able to confirm the information inputted by Metros 
agent regarding those requests. And I also dont feel that it should reasonably be expected 
that Metros agent would have waited on the line indefinitely for Mr M to return to the call.
Finally, Ive considered whether Metros agent might have sent the password to Mr M as he 
requested, in the circumstances described above. But its notable that when Mr M began the 
call with Metros agent, he gave an incorrect reason as to why he was calling, advising that 
he needed to know his account balance when this wasnt actually the case. 
Metro have confirmed the level of security questioning they conduct on a call can be 
dependent on what an account holder is calling to request. Metro have also confirmed that 
because Mr M gave the incorrect reason as to why he was calling that he did, he wasnt 
asked security questions sufficient for him to be able to request a password as he wanted, 
and that further security questions would need to be asked before that request could be 
actioned. But when Mr M stopped responding to Metros agent, having effectively left the 
call, the opportunity for those further questions to be asked of Mr M was no longer available, 
meaning the password couldnt be sent. Again, this seems reasonable to me.
All of which means that Im satisfied Metro havent acted unfairly towards Mr M as he 
contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Metro to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I 
trust hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman