DRN-2236797
The complaint
Mr B complains that Coutts Finance Company failed to advise him of improved options to 
earn interest on an extremely large cash deposit he held with it. He says Coutts has 
benefitted from this, and he wants a share of the money he thinks it has earned.
What happened
Mr B received an extremely large amount of money, in dollars, some years ago. He wanted 
to keep the money in dollars, so he placed it in a dollar account with Coutts. The balance of 
that account has remained extremely high ever since. He said he asked Coutts at the time 
whether there was an option to earn interest on the money, and was told interest rates were 
particularly low, so he concluded there was no meaningful interest available. He said he had 
also asked at various times since, between 2013 and 2105, and been told that there were 
still no options to earn greater amounts of interest on the money. At that time, interest rates 
remained low. 
Mr B said he didnt ask again after this. Interest rates for dollars then began to rise in mid-
2015. Mr B apparently wasnt aware of that at the time. In summer 2019, he asked again 
about investing his money, and was told there were options to earn interest that he did want 
to take up. He put the money into an interest bearing account straight away. 
Mr B said that Coutts advertises itself as offering a very high quality and personalised 
banking service. So he thought that Coutts should have contacted him once dollar interest 
rates started to rise, to let him know about opportunities to earn interest on this money. He 
wanted Coutts to compensate him for the very substantial amount of interest he had lost. 
Coutts said that when Mr B first paid in the dollar amount, interest rates were very low 
indeed, and it was aware Mr B wouldnt want to invest, so it hadnt discussed that with him. 
But it was disappointed to find that it had not discussed this with him once those rates 
started to rise. However, it said that Mr B was aware that he was earning no interest on the 
deposit. And it said it was not obliged to discuss the best rates, and how money can be 
deposited in different ways to maximise its potential.
To balance out that Coutts didnt raise this with Mr B, but that Mr B also knew he was not 
earning interest, Coutts offered Mr B £1,000. It said it wouldnt pay Mr B compensation 
based on what he may have earned if the money had been held in an interest-bearing 
account. 
Mr B didnt want to accept that offer. He said that Coutts had had a windfall, by being able to 
invest his money. He wanted it to work out what he could have earned if the money was on 
rolling three-monthly deposits, and then pay him half of that sum. Coutts wouldnt do that, 
and wouldnt increase its offer, so Mr B worked this out, and said he thought $90,000 had 
been lost.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr B was aware that 
Coutts offered low interest dollar accounts, and that his dollar account wasnt earning 
interest. Coutts had sent Mr B details of money market accounts which were available in this 
currency. And Coutts wasnt obliged to do what Mr B wanted, to alert him to better 
investment options. Our investigator didnt think Coutts had to compensate for lost interest. 
He didnt think it was fair to hold Coutts accountable for that. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he accepted this was partly his fault, and partly that of Coutts. But 
he repeated that Coutts had received a windfall of $90,000 because it hadnt told him there 
were opportunities to earn meaningful interest on his money. He was concerned that we 
hadnt referred to this amount. He said he wanted a share of that, and suggested this should 
be mediated between him and Coutts, perhaps involving our service. 
Our investigator said that our service couldnt be involved in a mediation between Mr B and 
Coutts, as he thought its existing offer was fair. He said that the next stage in our process 
was for an ombudsman to reach a final decision. Mr B decided to go ahead with that, and 
the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr B also told us that he chose not to invest this money between 2013 and 2015, because 
interest rates werent high enough for him to consider it was worth it. Mr B says Coutts 
shouldve been proactive, in contacting him about this account, once he was able to earn a 
reasonable amount of interest on the money. I can see that Coutts has previously contacted 
Mr B when he received a large cash payment, to suggest investments for that money. So I 
can understand why that may have created the expectation that Coutts would do the same 
for this account, once interest rates for dollar accounts started to rise. 
Mr B says that Coutts prides itself on offering more than an average bank. But I cant see 
that it has promised Mr B that it will provide him with a proactive investment advice service. 
So I dont think Coutts was obliged to contact Mr B, to suggest that he invest his money. 
Despite not being obliged to provide advice, Coutts has recognised that it could have done 
this, and has offered £1,000 in compensation to Mr B, as an apology for not having done so. 
Mr B says that isnt enough, because Coutts has had a windfall of around $90,000 by having 
his money on deposit. He has expressed his disappointment that we hadnt commented on 
this, so I will do so, although I dont think this affects the main point at issue in this complaint. 
Mr B bases his calculation of loss on a rolling three-month deposit, in place since early 2016. 
But Mr B hasnt tied up his money in this way. Its remained in a current account, and, as 
such, instantly accessible to him. Because of that, I dont think its likely that Coutts was able 
to invest all of that money in a way that would tie it up for three months at a time. So I dont 
think its likely that Coutts has had the windfall that Mr B suggests. 
But even if it had, that wouldnt change the fact that what Mr B wanted Coutts to do isnt a 
service it has agreed with him to provide. And I dont think that it would be reasonable for me 
to infer, from the communications that Ive seen, that Coutts really did have a duty to inform 
him of better investment opportunities, or that its fair and reasonable to hold Coutts 
responsible if Mr B isnt aware of such opportunities. I do understand that Coutts said something broadly similar to Mr B at one point, as it said 
that its service was disappointing, and it could have considered his wider financial position. 
But even then, Coutts was at pains to be clear that it has no obligation to inform Mr B of 
better interest rates. I think thats right, and because of that, I think that the offer Coutts has 
made is fair. It represents compensation for what Coutts considers to be a lapse in service, 
which it does think its responsible for. This payment doesnt represent compensation for lost 
interest, which Coutts doesnt think its responsible for. I think that is a fair and reasonable 
approach in the circumstances of this case.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but because I think Coutts has already made a fair 
offer, I dont think it has to do more than this. I understand that this offer hasnt yet been 
paid, because Mr B didnt want to accept it, so Ill award that now. It will then be up to Mr B 
to decide whether he wishes to accept this, or pursue this matter through other means.
My final decision
My final decision is that Coutts Finance Company must pay Mr B £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman