DRN-3214232
The complaint
Mr B complains Arch Insurance (UK) Limited handled his property insurance claim 
poorly.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B made a claim on his Arch property owners insurance policy. A vehicle 
damaged his building by crashing into it. He had to close the ground floor shop. It also left a 
first floor flat unsafe for Mr Bs tenant to reside in.
There is quite a long and detailed background to the claim and complaint. As the details are 
known to those involved, Ill only summarise matters here. In May 2021 Mr B referred his 
complaint to this service. He was unhappy with progress of the claim and how Arch had 
managed it. Our investigator considered the matter. Neither Mr B nor Arch agreed with his 
recommendations entirely. 
Arch agreed to his recommendation that it pay Mr B for loss of shop income between 1 May 
2020 and September 2020  deducting an amount equivalent to any state funded pandemic 
income replacement received. Mr B felt the loss of income should be paid from an earlier 
date. Arch also agreed to pay Mr B three months simple interest at 8% on costs he incurred 
for emergency repairs. 
 
Arch didnt accept the investigators recommendations that it:
redo repairs to provide the building with a wider door opening of 915mm with 
matching shutter,
arrange for flooring on the first floor of the property to be levelled and 
redo repairs to the propertys gable end wall to remove a bow in the brickwork.  
The investigator didnt think it would be reasonable to ask, as Mr B had, for Arch to cover 
advertising costs, loss of goodwill and redecoration costs.  
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view that Arch wasnt responsible for any significant 
unnecessary delay until about February 2020. Neither did he accept £500 as sufficient 
compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Arch had caused 
him during the claim.  
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. For reasons 
of practicality Ive only commented on the issues that are still clearly in dispute. Ive taken a 
lack of direct response, from Mr B or Arch, to any of the investigators findings as 
acceptance of his position. So I havent commented on those issues. Where there were no 
objections to one of the investigators recommendations, Ive taken it as acceptance by both 
parties and included it in my intended direction to Arch.
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I intended to require 
Arch to take various steps to put things right for Mr B. These included redoing repairs to 
some brickwork, working with suppliers to adjust security shutters, paying Mr B lost income 
and £750 compensation. I also said why I didnt plan on requiring Arch to level the first-floor 
flooring or rebuild the door opening.
My reasoning in the provisional decision forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it in 
below. I also invited Mr B and Arch to provide any further information they would like me to 
consider before I issue a final decision. Arch didnt respond by the deadline. Mr B accepted 
my provisional decision on all points, except for the door opening issue.  He asked that I 
reconsider this  and provided some comments. 
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service I havent addressed here every comment and piece of 
evidence. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. But I would 
like to reassure Mr B and Arch that Ive considered everything provided. 
I dont intend to require Arch to create a wider door opening. Mr B says the original 
door opening was 915mm, but has been rebuilt at 870mm. He says this has caused 
access problems for customers carrying larger loads. Hes provided some pre and 
post-repair photos with a A4 poster to illustrate his point.  
Arch say the original door opening was 896mm  it says its been rebuilt to the same 
dimension. It feels a perception of a smaller opening is created by the different 
design and position of railings for the doors shutters. 
A sketch, by Archs structural engineer, produced after the collision, but pre-repair, 
shows an opening of 896mm. Unfortunately Mr B hasnt provided anything to confirm 
915mm was the true original dimension. There are various sketches and plans of the 
door and opening with differing dimensions. However neither side has provided, as 
far as Ive seen, anything to confirm either the exact pre-loss dimensions or post-
repair width (for example a photo with a tape measure).
Having considered everything Im currently more persuaded by what Arch has 
provided and said. I think its most likely the door opening has been rebuilt to the 
original width. Photos do support the position of the shutter railings as being a 
potential issue. They do appear to overhang the door, rather than sitting flush to the 
edge as originally. 
However, the end impact is likely to be the same for Mr B - a smaller width for 
access. I can see Arch previously offered to liaise with the shutter company to find a 
remedy for this. It said if that failed it could look to appoint an independent shutter 
company to provide a solution. That seems a reasonable approach to me. So I intend 
to require Arch to work with suppliers to adjust the shutters or install new ones that 
provide access through the full width of the door opening. 
Its worth noting that if I was persuaded the door had been rebuilt narrower than its 
original design, I wouldnt automatically require Arch to rebuild it. I accept a narrower 
doorway might provide an inconvenience, but Id need to be persuaded a complete 
rebuild would be a proportionate resolution.   
Our investigator recommended Arch level the flooring on the propertys first floor. 
However, I dont intend to require the insurer to do that. The only expert evidence or 
opinion Ive seen for this issue is provided by Archs structural engineer. He said sloping to the front corner of the floor is probably a legacy of previous subsidence. 
Theres no other expert opinion or pre-incident photos to counter this. So on balance 
I cant say the floor is most likely sloping because of the collision. That means I cant 
reasonably say Arch should repair it as part of this claim. 
Ive considered various photos of the gable end wall. The paint had already 
deteriorated prior to the claim incident. Im satisfied its condition isnt related to the 
collision. I can see Arch repainted the front brickwork, so the two areas dont match. 
However they didnt match before the incident. So I dont intend to require Arch to 
repaint the gable end wall. 
Mr B says repairs have resulted in a bow in the wall. Post repair photos do suggest 
an outward curve towards the bottom of the corner brickwork. I accept theres no 
photo to show this wasnt already there before the collision. However, looking at a 
pre-repair, post-collision photo Im persuaded its most likely the result of the repair. It 
shows brickwork damaged in the relevant area. It seems this has been repaired 
without sufficient focus on creating a straight line vertically. Mr B feels this may cause 
him problems when coming to sell the property. Rectification of this problem seems 
unlikely to involve significant cost, time or inconvenience. So I intend to require Arch 
to redo the corner brickwork with a vertical straight line.     
Mr Bs also unhappy with the mortar work on the gable end wall. I accept its 
application for the repair is liberal in places. But looking at the photos I cant say its 
out of keeping with other historically applied areas of mortar. Unfortunately it can take 
time until mortar matches the tone of that applied much earlier. Overall, on the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to require Arch 
to redo the mortar. 
A focus of Mr Bs frustration is the time Arch took to complete repairs. Hes of the 
opinion it failed to progress the claim efficiently, with jobs being repeated, for 
example, due to poor workmanship.
Our investigator was of the opinion the repairs should have been completed, to allow 
Mr B to reopen his business, around 1 May 2020. As a result he recommended Arch 
step in and compensate him for loss of income from then until the date he did open - 
1 September 2020. Mr B had asked for loss of income to be awarded from 23 March 
2020  the date the third-party insurer stopped covering the loss. 
Its difficult for me to say exactly how long it should have taken Arch to repair the 
property to   a standard allowing Mr Bs business to reopen. But Ive seen enough to 
persuade me that if the claim had been managed reasonably efficiently it probably 
would have happened before late March 2020. Ive considered the processes and 
requirements involved in achieving that  but Im not persuaded it was reasonable 
that repair work didnt start until late November 2019. After that there seems to have 
been other delays including with fitting windows. That caused a knock-on effect on 
the internal refit. There were also some continued problems with the shutters.
So I intend to require Arch to pay loss of income for the period from 23 March 2020 
to 1 September 2020. For simplicity this should be at the same rate paid by the third-
party insurer. I agree with Archs point that any pandemic related subsidy for loss of 
income for the same period should be deducted. As far as Ive seen Mr B was 
awarded a total of £3,212 for that period. I ask Mr B to let me know, in response to 
this provisional decision, if he received anything for the period 23 March 2020 to 30 
April 2022.  Mr Bs asked that Arch fund advertising costs. He says a campaign is necessary to 
rebuild his customer base after the prolonged closure of the business. Ive accepted 
Arch did cause it to be closed longer than might have otherwise been expected. 
However, even if the claim had been managed perfectly it would have been out of 
action for a reasonably long spell. On top of that the pandemic may have influenced 
custom. So I think, unfortunately, its Mr Bs custom would have been negatively 
affected, and advertising costs incurred, even without Archs errors.  
Arch has agreed to reimburse electric costs from the repair works. That seems fair to 
me. So I intend to require it to pay Mr B for this on receipt of evidence of those costs.  
Arch agreed to the investigators distress and inconvenience compensation award of 
£500. Mr Bs indicated thats an inadequate amount. Its important to note that I can 
only fairly award compensation for any unnecessary distress and inconvenience Arch 
is responsible for. With a claim of this sort, by its very nature there, theres likely to be 
a certain amount of unavoidable distress and inconvenience for the policyholder.   
Ive considered Mr Bs comments about the impact, on his health and personality, of 
Archs management of the claim. Ive looked at timeline of the claim. As Ive said 
Arch does seem to have made various mistakes during the claim, some of these 
have delayed progress and no doubt caused Mr B some unnecessary frustration and 
inconvenience. There does seem to have been a significant impact on him. Theres 
been the inconvenience of having to deal with the mistakes. In addition I think its 
likely the delay and errors have caused him several months of unnecessary distress 
about his business and future income. To recognise this I intend to require Arch to 
pay him £750. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says he doesnt recall claiming the original door opening width was 915mm. He thinks 
Archs contractor first introduced that measurement  but still feels the opening has been 
rebuilt narrower than it was originally. He referred to the photos featuring an A4 poster that 
he feels illustrate the new pillar being wider than the original. He calculated, using the 
photos, that its an additional 11.5cm. Id already considered those photos before issuing my 
provisional decision. I explained why I wasnt persuaded by them. Unfortunately Mr B still 
hasnt provided anything to confirm the actual original or rebuilt measurements. 
Ive considered the rest of Mr Bs recent comments on the door opening issue  including his 
description of Archs drawings and record keeping. But I havent changed my mind. For the 
reasons given in my provisional decision I still think its most likely the door was rebuilt to its 
original width  with the shutters narrowing the accessible space. So I will require Arch to 
work with suppliers to adjust the shutters or install new ones that provide access through the 
full width of the door opening.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to:
work with suppliers to adjust the shutters or install new ones providing access 
through the full width of the door opening, 
redo repairs to the corner brickwork so that it follows a vertical straight line,     
pay simple interest at 8% for three months on the amount Mr B paid for emergency 
works,
pay Mr B loss of income for his retail business from 23 March 2020 to 1 September 
2020 (minus the total covid related income he received for this period. Simple interest 
at 8% should be added from 1 September 2020 to the date of settlement),
reimburse Mr Bs (on receipt of evidence) electric costs incurred during the repairs 
(simple interest should be added from the date of the bills until the date of settlement)
and pay him £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman