DRN-2869738
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wouldnt continue to provide cover 
under her employers group private medical insurance policy for treatment she was receiving 
for her varicose veins.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs C contacted AXA to explain her GP had referred her to a vascular 
specialist to investigate symptoms of black marks and pain in her legs. AXA authorised her 
to see a consultant and undergo investigations.
In September 2019, Mrs C told AXA she had been diagnosed with complex venous disease 
with possible pelvic source. Her consultant wanted to refer her on to another consultant and 
said she may need pelvic vein embolization along with lower leg vein treatment. AXA agreed 
for her to see a new consultant (who Ill call Dr A).
In October 2019, Mrs C contacted AXA to explain that rather than undergo a pelvic vein 
embolization, Dr A had recommended she instead undergo sclerotherapy on her varicose 
veins. AXA agreed to provide cover for this procedure.
Ten days later, Mrs C called AXA again. She said shed undergone the sclerotherapy 
procedure but Dr A had decided she would need at least two further sessions to complete 
the treatment, the first of which was planned for the next day. AXA said that the policy 
provided cover for only one such procedure on each leg, plus one follow up consultation and 
simple procedure to deal with residual veins. It said it couldnt therefore provide cover for 
further sclerotherapy procedures on the same leg.
Mrs C complained to AXA but it wouldnt change its position. Mrs C therefore paid the fees 
herself to continue with her treatment and referred her complaint to us. She considered that 
AXA had misled her into believing more than one treatment session per leg would be 
covered.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy has a special section dealing with cover for varicose veins. This states:
We do cover treatment of varicose veins, but only in certain circumstances.
What is covered?
We will cover one surgical procedure per leg to treat varicose veins, for the lifetime of 
your membership with us. This may be foam injection (sclerotherapy), ablation or 
other surgery.
We will cover one follow up consultation with your specialist and one simple injection 
sclerotherapy per leg to treat residual or remaining veins when it is carried out in the 
6 months after youve had the main surgical procedure.
What is not covered
We do not cover more than one surgical procedure per leg, regardless of how long 
you stay a member with us.
There is no cover for the treatment of recurrent varicose veins under your plan.
There is no cover for the treatment of thread veins or superficial veins.
Im satisfied that the policy is clear on what is covered. I note Mrs C said she didnt have a 
copy of the policy but, as the investigator has explained, this is a matter she should take up 
with her employer through whom the cover was offered.
AXA has clarified that the main sclerotherapy treatment for which it will allow cover for one 
procedure per leg is a different procedure (code L8620) to the simple injection sclerotherapy 
to treat residual veins (L8600 or L8660).
There are a number of calls which Mrs C had with AXA during the course of her treatment. 
However, I consider the critical call for the purposes of this complaint is that which took place 
on 14 October 2019.
In this call, Mrs C told AXA that Dr A had advised her against undergoing a pelvic vein 
embolization at this stage. Instead, he wanted to treat her legs and see how she got on 
following this. She said Dr A had advised he may want to treat the legs again and so it might 
involve two sessions. She wasnt sure if Dr A intended to treat both legs or just the right leg.
AXA agreed to provide cover for the procedure, which was guided sclerotherapy for varicose 
veins, and for both legs. However, it explained that the policy had restricted cover for 
treatment of varicose veins and so it would only cover one procedure per leg.
Mrs C asked whether this meant that if Dr A had to call her back to carry out the procedure 
again, it wouldnt be covered and AXA confirmed that was the case.
Mrs C explained she had an unusual pattern of veins from the pelvic area and so she might 
have to re-undergo the treatment if they didnt get everything the first time. AXA then said 
that this would probably be covered on the grounds it was treating residual veins provided 
that this treatment was carried out within six months of the original procedure.
Ten days later, Mrs C called AXA. She explained shed just undergone the first treatment 
session but Dr A now believed it would take at least three sessions in total to complete the 
treatment. The second was planned for a few days time and the third was planned for in two 
or three months time. After making further enquiries, AXA learned that the further treatment 
was again the main sclerotherapy procedure (L8620). It therefore said it could not provide 
cover beyond one procedure per leg.
I consider that in the telephone call of 14 October 2019, AXA initially described the cover 
available under the policy correctly. However, it then told Mrs C that if she were to require a 
second treatment session on a particular leg this was likely to be simply treating residual 
veins and thus would be covered under the policy. AXA shouldnt have said this because it 
was not in a position to know this. AXA furthermore didnt explain that the treatment of 
residual veins was a different procedure to the main sclerotherapy treatment. I consider that it should have clearly explained that it allowed cover for one L8620 procedure and one either 
L8600 or L8660 procedure per leg, and encouraged Mrs C to seek clarification from Dr A as 
to what treatment he was planning to undertake. Instead, it effectively assured Mrs C that 
her planned treatment was likely to be covered by the policy even though it was to be carried 
out across more than one treatment session.
I cant be sure what would have happened if AXA had been clearer in its advice to Mrs S. If 
she had known the true situation, I dont know whether Mrs S would have acted differently or 
whether she would have simply decided to go ahead with the treatment in any case and to 
self-fund any further L8620 procedures she required.
However, while I dont know exactly what difference it might have made if AXA had given 
clearer advice, I consider the fair outcome is that it provides cover for two L8620 procedures 
on Mrs Cs right leg (though it is not required to provide cover for any further procedures in 
respect of this leg).
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mrs C accepted my provisional decision.
AXA didnt accept my provisional decision. It considered that during the phone call of 
14 October 2019 it had advised Mrs C clearly and correctly on the cover which was available 
under the policy. It said it had told Mrs C that only one L8620 procedure was authorised and 
that she should call back if further treatment was required.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened again to the telephone call of 14 October 2019. 
Im satisfied, as I previously explained, that AXA initially described the cover under the policy 
correctly and that Mrs C confirmed her understanding that only one procedure would be 
covered on each leg. However, when Mrs C said that her specialist had told her he might 
have to spread the treatment on her right leg over two sessions if he was unable to deal with 
all the veins first time round, AXA said that this was probably treatment of residual veins. 
The adviser said: We will be able to help with that. The adviser didnt explain that the 
procedure for which cover was provided under the policy to treat residual veins was different 
to the L8620 procedure. And Mrs C isnt a medical expert so I wouldnt expect her to know 
this. I consider that the conversation left Mrs C with the impression that she would indeed be 
covered even if her consultant needed two sessions to deal with all the veins in her right leg.
AXA has pointed out that it told Mrs C within this call that she should call back if she needed 
treatment beyond the initial procedure. This is true, and Mrs C followed this advice. 
However, by then Mrs C had already embarked on the treatment having been told by the 
adviser that if she required a second session of treatment this was likely to be of residual 
veins and therefore covered under the policy.
In summary, I acknowledge that this is a finely balanced case. However, I consider that AXA 
wasnt as precise as it should have been in describing the cover available under the policy 
and made a wrong assumption about Mrs Cs treatment which led her to believe she would 
certainly be covered if she needed to undergo a second session of treatment on her right 
leg.In view of the above, I remain of the opinion that the fair outcome is for AXA to cover the 
cost of the second procedure on Mrs Cs right leg.  
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint.
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay for the second L8620 procedure which Mrs C 
underwent on her right leg. If Mrs C has already paid this cost herself, AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited should reimburse her and add interest at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated 
from the date Mrs C paid the invoice to the date of settlement.* AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
is not required to pay for any further procedures to treat varicose veins in this leg.
*If AXA PPP Healthcare Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman