DRN-2655011
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the claim settlement offered by Assurant General Insurance Limited 
after his laptop was stolen under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim after his laptop was stolen abroad. Assurant asked for documentation to 
validate the claim which Mr S provided. The claim was accepted, and Mr S paid the £75 
excess. But Assurant said it couldnt offer a replacement and instead offered £1899.97 in 
cash. It said this was the replacement cost through an online second hand retailer. Mr S 
didnt accept this. He said the appropriate equivalent was in the region of £3,500.00 and that 
was roughly how much hed paid for the laptop when he bought it new. Mr S backed this up 
by explaining the specific functionality, software and hardware that his laptop had when hed 
originally bought it.
At this point Assurant reviewed the details again and made a revised offer of £2,599.00. It 
also offered £100 compensation for the delays Mr S had encountered. Mr S didnt accept 
this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Initially shed considered Assurants offer to be 
reasonable. But on further consideration decided that it wasnt fair, and that Assurant 
needed to do more. She said Assurants offer was for a different keyboard layout to the one 
Mr S had and so hed been right to point out that it wasnt like for like. After extensive 
research our investigator found models that she felt were comparable with what Mr S had 
and asked Assurant to pay £3,009.00. This was the cost of the closest available model.
Mr S accepted this. Assurant didnt so the complaint was passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The most important consideration for me when looking at such a claim is what the policy 
says. In this case:
If your gadget is lost or stolen we will replace it with a gadget of the same make, model and 
memory size. If we cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent 
specification.
Based on the details provided to this service by the parties the initial offer from Assurant 
wasnt enough to allow Mr S to replace his laptop. In fairness to Assurant once Mr S had 
provided further details it did make a revised offer. However, I dont think the revised offer 
was in line with what the policy wording said, and the details provided by Mr S.
Assurants revised offer was for the higher of two sale prices it found at £2599.00. But it was 
clear from the details of what Mr S had bought and the current replacement costs that this 
offer wasnt for like for like in terms of the functionality, software and hardware. Indeed, Mr S 
had given this service evidence of the extra costs involved with his purchase due to the 
revised specifications hed purchased originally.
Assurant said the laptop didnt need to be bought from the manufacturer and that most 
sellers would give a warranty. It also suggested the different keyboard layout didnt make a 
difference and that the software would still work. But Im not sure in this case that would be 
fair as Mr S should be back in the position he was before the loss. In his case he had been 
able to go back to the manufacturer before the laptop was stolen if there were any issues 
under the warranty so I dont see why that should change. Assurant also questioned how 
much Mr S had spent on the replacement he bought at the time and confirmed that at 
todays current prices he could get a suitable replacement for less than £1,000. But I feel 
that all rather misses the point about what the policy says and what Mr S could expect to 
happen in the event of a claim. Also, prices now arent the point, this was about how his 
claim was dealt with at the time he made it.
I think Mr S was measured and clear in the details that he provided along with reasons why 
the offers werent putting him back in the position he was prior to the loss. So, the fairest and 
most reasonable outcome would be in line with the policy wording to give him the value of a 
model with an equivalent specification. Mr S had highlighted how even the second offer 
wasnt going to return him to the position he was in before the claim.
The £3009.00 our investigator decided isnt the amount Mr S paid for the original equipment 
or the amount he said he should be paid in settlement. Its quite a bit less. But I can see that 
our investigator did carry out detailed backdated enquiries across numerous different 
retailers. She has shown that a suitable replacement could be bought at the time for this 
price. And when she explained this to Mr S, he was willing to accept this figure to conclude 
his complaint. So, I think £3009.00 is a fair and reasonable settlement amount for Mr Ss 
replacement laptop.
In terms of compensation, Assurant had accepted that it had delayed matters for Mr S and to 
rectify that it offered him £100 compensation. In the circumstances and based on the efforts 
made by Assurant I think that is a fair and reasonable amount. If it hasnt yet been paid it this 
amount it should be added to the claim settlement amount.
Putting things right
Pay Mr S a cash settlement of £3009.00 for his claim.
Pay £100 compensation for delays if it hasnt already.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr S a cash settlement of £3009.00 for his claim;
pay the £100 compensation for delays if it hasnt already.If it hasnt already paid the compensation Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman