DRN-2796630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) 
handled their mobile phone insurance claim for a lost phone. They complain Assurant kept 
moving the goalposts in relation to the information it needed, causing unnecessary delays.
Any reference to Assurant also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a summary of 
what happened.
Mr and Mrs A have mobile phone insurance as part of a package of benefits with 
their bank account. The policy is underwritten by Assurant.
On 26 November 2020, Mrs A made a loss claim on the policy when her phone fell 
into a canal. She told Assurant shed notified the network provider and it had blocked 
her phone and SIM card. Assurant asked for proof of purchase and proof of usage 
along with the claim form. Mr and Mrs A provided the requested information in the 
days that followed, with the proof of usage being submitted on 1 December.
On 2 December, Assurant contacted Mr A and said the database it shared with 
network providers didnt show the phone as being blocked. It also said the 
documentation from the network provider didnt show any barring (or blocking) 
information. Assurant asked Mr A to obtain confirmation of the block from the network 
provider. Mr and Mrs A submitted an email first, and later a text message, from the 
network provider in response to Assurants request. But it said these werent 
acceptable.
Mr and Mrs A complained and said Assurant was being pedantic and changing the 
goalpost. They submitted the required document they received from the network 
provider to Assurant on 6 December. Assurant then said it needed to carry out further 
checks and couldnt confirm how long this would take. Mr and Mrs A complained 
about this as they were unhappy it couldnt provide any timescales. 
Assurant accepted Mr and Mrs As claim on 15 December and informed them of this 
the following day. A replacement phone was sent out shortly afterwards. In response 
to their complaint, Assurant said it believed its request to ask for evidence of barring 
was reasonable. It also said it relied on information from third parties to complete 
further checks and couldnt determine a timescale to complete its assessment. 
Our investigator concluded it was reasonable of Assurant to ask for information to 
validate the claim. And it wasnt unreasonable for further checks to be completed. 
She thought Assurant couldnt have given a timeframe if it was reliant on third 
parties, so it hadnt acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
In summary, theyve said: Assurant has breached the terms and conditions as the 
policy only requires blocking the SIM card, not the phone; it continually moved the 
goalposts in relation to what it considered acceptable evidence of the phone being 
blocked; its unfair and unreasonable to expect a customer to wait indefinitely 
because the insurer is reliant on information from third parties.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about their complaint and I appreciate being 
without a phone for nearly three weeks has been difficult for them, especially Mrs A. 
Although Ive only provided a summary of what happened, Id like to reassure them, and 
Assurant, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. That I concentrate on the crux 
of the issue in my decision isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and informal 
service we provide.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided Im not upholding this complaint for 
these reasons:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say insurers have a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
So, the starting point here is the contract between Mr and Mrs A and Assurant  the 
policy terms and conditions. Step three of the claims process  Section B: How to 
make a claim  states, We will walk you through the simple claims process and tell 
you what information you will need to provide for us to assess your claim. 
Ive listened to the initial call Mrs A made to Assurant and the agent can be heard 
telling her to submit proof of purchase and proof of usage along with the claim form. 
Im satisfied Assurant made it sufficiently clear what information it needed. I accept it 
didnt ask for proof of barring at the time. But this is because it had been advised by 
Mrs A the network provider had already placed a block on her phone. So, Assurant 
expected this to be electronically confirmed via the shared database during its 
checks. I dont consider it unreasonable for it not to have asked Mrs A for information 
it believed it didnt need from her at that stage. 
Mr and Mrs A make a good argument that the policy states its important the 
policyholder bars the SIM card with the network as soon as possible, and that 
Assurant will blacklist the phone once it has settled the claim. Theyve questioned 
why then Assurant insisted on confirmation that Mrs As phone had been blocked. 
Given theyd informed Assurant during the notification call as well as on the claim 
form that the network provider had blocked the phone, I dont consider it unfair or 
unreasonable of Assurant to have sought confirmation to support this statement. 
Especially, when its checks indicated otherwise. In any event, Assurant has said the 
checks also showed the SIM card hadnt been barred either. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs A were advised differently by the network provider, but in my judgement, it was 
fair of Assurant to request further information before proceeding further. 
Ive also thought carefully about Mr and Mrs As concerns that Assurant kept moving 
the goalposts in relation to the information it wanted. I can see they forwarded an 
email from the network provider to Assurant which said, ... weve blocked your 
device from being used. blocked all services on your SIM. But Ive also listened 
to a call between Mr A and Assurant that took place before this email was forwarded. 
Mr A read out the contents of the email and checked if it was enough, and the agent advised it wasnt as the email didnt confirm the identification details  IMEI number  
of the device it referred to. The agent told Mr A that a confirmation of the block on the 
database would suffice, but he could also provide a further document from the 
network provider setting out the IMEI number of the phone that had been blocked. 
There was no discussion about providing this confirmation via a text message in this 
call or in any of the subsequent calls Ive listened to. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider Assurant moved the goalposts  it had been clear from the outset it either 
needed the database to show the phone was blocked, or for Mr and Mrs A to provide 
documentation from the network provider setting out the IMEI number of the phone it 
had blocked.
Having listened to the calls, its clear Mr and Mrs A experienced significant issues 
with the network provider in obtaining the information Assurant had requested. 
I understand it blocked the wrong phone in the first instance, and there were issues 
with activating the replacement SIM. I dont doubt this must have been quite 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs A. But I dont consider Assurant is at fault for any delays 
they experienced in obtaining the information it requested. 
It was around ten days after the initial claim notification that Assurant received all the 
information it required. It took a further ten days for it to assess the claim. I can 
understand why this would have caused further frustration to Mr and Mrs A. But 
Assurant is entitled to carry out further checks to satisfy itself the claim is valid. I 
acknowledge their feelings on Assurants inability to confirm how long additional 
checks could take. I also appreciate Mr and Mrs A feel Assurant could have settled 
the claim first and then continued with its checks in the background. I can see why 
that would have been considerably more convenient for them. But Assurant has to 
strike a balance between causing inconvenience to its customer and the risk of 
paying out on a claim that isnt covered. As the phone in question is, in my opinion, 
relatively expensive, I dont consider Assurant acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
carrying out additional checks to satisfy itself the claim was covered. Especially, 
when there were some initial inconsistencies that Ive mentioned above. 
Overall, I appreciate Mr and Mrs As frustrations and recognise theyre likely to disagree with 
my findings. But for the reasons given, I dont consider Assurant acted unfairly in its handling 
of their claim or unreasonably delayed it. So, I make no award in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman