DRN-1965624
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that AXA Insurance UK plc declined their travel insurance claim and 
about its service. My references to AXA include its agents. One of their daughters (who Ill 
refer to as Ms H) represents them in their complaint to us.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance through a bank account. AXA is the insurer.
Mr and Mrs F and their extended family were on holiday abroad. On the way to the airport to 
return home they stopped at a shopping mall. They say the van they were travelling in was 
left locked and alarmed. When the family returned to the van they realised nine items of their 
hand luggage had been stolen. Luggage had been stored throughout the van with some 
stored under the seats and some in the boot. Ms H contacted the police and made a 
statement.
Mr and Mrs F had personal items, their medication and their passports stolen. As their 
passports were taken, Mr and Mrs F weren't able to take their scheduled flight home. Ms H 
says her parents are elderly with medical needs and she stayed with them to help organise 
emergency travel documents and book new flights home. Ms H contacted AXA for advice 
and says she was told to do what (they) needed to do to get home and keep the receipts.
Mr and Mrs F contacted AXA to make a claim for the stolen items and associated additional 
travel, hotel and other costs. AXA sent an email to Mr F but not a claims pack. A few days 
later Mrs F called AXA to chase the claim form but during the call Mrs F was told the claim 
would be declined. AXA said the stolen luggage wasnt in a secured baggage area as 
defined by the policy and anyway valuables and passports werent covered while left in an 
attended vehicle.
Ms H then contacted AXA to understand the reason why the claim had been declined. She 
detailed the circumstances of the claim. She also complained on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf that 
the wording in the policy document they had meant their circumstances would be covered 
and that AXA told her to get the travel documents and book the return flight.
AXA sent the claims pack after Ms H made a further chasing call. Mr and Mrs F returned the 
claim form with supporting evidence. Ms H contacted AXA on several occasions over the 
following months to chase a response to the complaint and claim now Mr and Mrs F had 
sent all the information. AXA didnt provide a final response to the complaint but gave 
referral rights to our service.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. In addition to their above complaint points they said their 
other daughter had made a claim for the same incident, also with AXA, and her claim had 
been covered.Our investigator thought AXA fairly declined Mr and Mrs Fs claim. But shed spoken to AXA 
who accepted it had given poor customer service. It offered £150 compensation for Mr and 
Mrs Fs distress and inconvenience, which our investigator thought was fair.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed that AXA fairly declined their claim so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. Ms H on their behalf said shed told AXA the hand luggage was distributed 
throughout the van with some in the boot and the rest under the seats as the boot wasn't big 
enough. All the hand luggage was stolen from the boot and inside the van. Her parents 
werent able to take the bags with medication and valuables as Mrs F used a walking aid and 
Mr F used a stick. She accepted the passports being left in the bags in the van was a costly 
oversight. She also asked us to listen to the call she had with AXA when it said she could 
book a flight and seek medical aid for her parents.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I explained why I was intending to partly uphold this complaint and come to a different 
outcome than recommended by our investigator. I said:
The policy term which AXA says was relevant at the time of the theft says:
What is not covered
2. Loss, theft of or damage to Valuables left Unattended at any time (including in a vehicle or 
in the custody of carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in Your 
locked accommodation.
3. Loss, theft of or damage to Baggage contained in an Unattended vehicle unless:
a. the items are locked out of sight in a Secure Baggage Area
Theres a list of items in the policy that are defined as valuables which include some of the 
items Mr and Mrs F claimed for, for example jewellery.
The policy definition of secure baggage area includes the locked dashboard, boot or 
luggage compartment of a motor vehicle.
The policy definition of unattended is when You are not in full view of and not in a position 
to prevent unauthorised interference with Your property or vehicle.
Ms H sent AXA and us a page of another version of the policy which she says is the only 
version her parents have. That policy says:
cover in respect of theft of Personal Luggage (Valuables are not covered) left unattended in
a motor vehicle is subject to the following proviso:
i) the items must be locked out of sight in a Secure Luggage Area where available
what is not covered
b) any loss of Personal Luggage stolen from an unattended motor vehicle if the items
concerned have not been locked out of sight
c) theft of Valuables from an unattended motor vehicleThe difference between the two policies is that in the policy Mr and Mrs F have non valuable 
items would be covered in the circumstances of their claim.
Ive seen no evidence that AXA sent the policy terms its relying on to Mr and Mrs F. But I 
dont think it makes any difference to the outcome of my decision whether it did or not. I think 
its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have done anything differently with their 
luggage as theyve said there wasnt enough room in the boot for all the hand luggage.
AXAs decision is based on Mr and Mrs Fs stolen luggage being under the van seats, not in 
the boot. But I dont think its clear that was the situation. 
Ms H told AXA the luggage that was stolen belonged to her parents and others in the family, 
they were stolen from the boot and under the seats and they werent sure whose luggage 
was where. As nine items of luggage were stolen it may be that at least one of Mr and Mrs 
Fs bags were in the boot. In addition, as the thieves were able to get into the boot as well as 
the main body of the van to steal luggage I dont think AXA has been disadvantaged. The 
thieves would have taken the hand luggage whether it was in the boot or stored out of sight 
under the seats.
I cant comment on whether it was fair for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs Fs other daughters claim 
for the same incident. But if the policy had substantively the same terms as the terms AXA 
relied on for Mr and Mrs Fs claim I can see why they dont understand why AXA declined 
their claim.
In the circumstances I think a fair outcome is for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim for the 
personal items not defined by the policy as valuable, subject to the remaining policy terms 
and limits, plus interest as detailed below.
As valuable items were left in an unattended vehicle theres no cover for valuable items 
under the policy AXAs relied on or the policy Ms H says her parents have.
As to passports, the policy AXA relied on says:
What is not covered
Loss, theft of or damage to Personal Money and Travel Documents left Unattended at any 
time (including in a vehicle or in the custody of carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe, 
safety deposit box or left in Your locked accommodation.
Ms H hasnt said the policy her parents had said anything substantively different.
As theres no cover for the theft of passports left in an unattended vehicle theres no cover 
for the costs arising from having the passports stolen.
Even if AXA told Ms H to book a flight home and get replacement medical supplies for Mr 
and Mrs F that doesnt mean AXA must pay those costs. They were always costs Mr and 
Mrs F would have to incur.
AXA accepts it gave Mr and Mrs F poor customer service in responding to their claim and 
complaint, and it did. I think its offer of £150 compensation is a reasonable amount for the 
distress and inconvenience that poor service caused Mr and Mrs F.
Responses to my provisional decisionAXA accepted my provisional decision that it should cover the non valuable personal items 
only. Ms H, on behalf of Mr and Mrs F, asked that I listen to her call to AXA asking about 
cover for the flight costs. She said AXA never said Mr and Mrs F would have to pay for new 
flights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA now agrees it will cover Mr and Mrs Fs claim for non valuable personal items. Ive 
explained in my provisional findings why personal items defined as valuables arent covered. 
Ms H hasnt commented on that issue and Ive no reason to change my mind.
Ive also explained why personal money, replacement travel documents and costs  arising 
from having the passports stolen, such as new flight costs, accommodation and replacement 
medication, arent covered by the policy. 
In effect Ms H says whether or not the policy covers the flight costs she thinks AXA gave 
permission for Mr and Mrs F to book the flights. Ive listened to the relevant call between Ms 
H and AXA. She told AXA the passports were stolen from the vehicle. When Ms H asked 
AXA about booking the new flights and replacement medication AXA responded that it would 
consider the claim if Mr and Mrs F had all the required documents so I dont think AXA said it 
would definitely pay all those expenses. 
I accept that when Ms H asked if it would be ok if they went ahead and booked the flights 
AXA responded that if they had the required documents that should be fine. AXA should 
have been clearer then that the claim for flights still had to be fully assessed against the 
policy terms. But that doesnt change my decision as Mr and Mrs F would always have had 
to pay for flights to get home whether or not AXA agreed to cover the costs. They haven't 
been disadvantaged by AXA not being clearer. I cant reasonably say AXA has to pay the 
flight costs.
Ms Hs made no comment, on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf, about AXAs offer of £150 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service and I still think the 
offer is reasonable.
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK plc must pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim for the personal items not defined by 
the policy as valuables and compensation as I've detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim for the personal items not defined by the policy 
as valuables, subject to the remaining policy terms and limits. Interest* should be 
added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement, and
pay Mr and Mrs F £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service.
 
*If AXA Insurance UK plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman