DRN-4331005
The complaint
Mr R complains about the exchange rate applied by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when a 
foreign cheque was paid into his account.
What happened
Mr R is represented by a relative in bringing this complaint. But, to make it easier to read, Ill 
only refer to Mr R in this decision.
In 2022, Mr R wanted to pay a foreign cheque into his Lloyds account. The cheque had been 
issued by an overseas bank which Ill call M. Mr R took the cheque into a branch of Lloyds. 
The branch sent the cheque to a specialist department for processing. After several weeks, 
the funds were converted into Sterling and paid into Mr Rs account. But the amount Mr R
received was almost £10,000 less than he was expecting.
Mr R complained to Lloyds. He said it hadnt told him there would be a charge for paying in 
the cheque. And he said it had used the wrong exchange rate. He referred to the 
international exchange rate for the relevant currency on the date of conversion, which was 
more favourable to him. He asked Lloyds to check this and refund the balance to his 
account. He also said that Lloyds had a duty to ensure he received the best conversion rate 
and that this should have been considered before the currency exchange was completed.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that, when it receives a foreign cheque, its 
process is to contact the overseas bank to collect the funds. Lloyds said it doesnt charge 
customers for doing this. But it cant confirm any charges which the foreign bank may make. 
Lloyds explained that the exchange rate isnt agreed in advance. It said it applies the rate 
which is in place on the day it receives the funds from the foreign bank.
In this case, Lloyds said it negotiated the cheque with M on 22 November. M charged a fee. 
M deducted this fee and sent the remaining funds to Lloyds. Lloyds then converted the funds 
into Sterling and paid them into Mr Rs account. Lloyds said that its Foreign Cheque Team 
had confirmed that the exchange rate used was the correct rate on that day.
Mr R wasnt happy with Lloyds response and asked this service to look at the complaint. I 
issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2023, indicating my intention not to uphold the 
complaint. Mr R hasnt commented on the provisional decision. Lloyds confirmed that it didnt 
have anything further to add. Im now making a final decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the outcome of this complaint. So, as 
I indicated in my provisional decision, Im not going to uphold it. My reasons are set out 
below.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account with Lloyds. By opening and 
continuing to use the account, Mr R agreed to be bound by these. They set out what Lloyds 
will do if Mr R wants to pay a foreign currency cheque into his account. The terms say:
We usually buy the foreign cheque from you. If we do this, we will usually pay the amount of 
the cheque into your account by the sixth working day after you present the cheque. 
If we cant do this, we will send the cheque to the bank that issued it. They will send us the 
payment and we will pay that into your account on the day we receive it. The time this takes 
will depend on the other bank and where it is.
Because of the currency of the cheque, Lloyds couldnt buy the cheque from Mr R. It had to 
send the cheque to the bank that issued it. Lloyds specialist team sent the cheque to M at 
the beginning of October. Lloyds wrote to Mr R at that time. It told him the cheque had been 
sent for collection and that it was waiting to receive the funds from M. Im satisfied that 
Lloyds paid the funds into Mr Rs account on the day it received them from M. This means 
Lloyds followed the correct procedure  as set out in its terms and conditions  when 
processing the cheque.
The main issue which Mr R is unhappy about is the amount of money credited to his account 
and the exchange rate used by Lloyds. Mr R says he wasnt told that there was a charge for
clearing the cheque. Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt charge a fee for the transaction. M did 
make a charge, which it deducted before sending the funds to Lloyds. Lloyds letter to Mr R 
in October said that any charges made by M would be deducted from the cheque proceeds. I 
understand that the amount of the charge was quite small. But, if Mr R wants to query it, he 
should raise this with M directly as Lloyds couldnt control how much M charged.
The exchange rate used is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account, in the 
section about paying in foreign cheques. The terms say:
If we need to change the payment into pounds, we will use our standard exchange rate. We 
will apply the exchange rate on the day we pay the money into your account.
So, the exchange rate used by Lloyds was its standard exchange rate. The terms and 
conditions explain what this is: 
Our standard exchange rate includes a margin. This is the difference between our standard 
exchange rate and the rate at which we buy and sell currency in the foreign exchange 
markets. You can find our current exchange rates by calling us or asking in branch. The 
exchange rate changes to reflect currency market movements, so we wont be able to 
confirm the actual rate until we receive the payment.
I think this explains the variation in the exchange rate used by Lloyds and the exchange rate 
quoted by Mr R. Lloyds used its standard exchange rate which included a margin. I can 
understand why Mr R is unhappy about the rate used. But I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly. 
It followed its usual procedures and acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs 
account.
Ive seen a screenshot from Lloyds system which shows the funds being received from M 
and the exchange rate used. The exchange rate quoted in Lloyds letter to Mr R of 9 
December was the rate being used by Lloyds at the time of the currency conversion. Im 
satisfied that the amount credited to Mr Rs account was correct, based on this rate (and 
following the deduction of Ms fee).I understand that Mr R would have liked Lloyds to consider the exchange rate before 
completing the currency conversion. I understand that he thinks Lloyds should perhaps have 
waited for a more favourable rate. But I dont think Lloyds had any obligation to do this. Its 
terms and conditions say it will apply the exchange rate on the day it pays the money into Mr 
Rs account. And that Lloyds will pay the money into Mr Rs account on the day it receives 
the payment from the overseas bank. Thats what it did here.
When Lloyds wrote to Mr R in October to confirm the cheque had been sent for collection, it 
said that the exchange rate used would be that of the day Lloyds received the funds. The 
letter provided a phone number for Mr R to contact Lloyds if he had any questions. So, if he 
wanted to discuss the exchange rate with Lloyds in any way, for example to find out what 
type of rate it was going to use, I think its fair to say he could have contacted it before the 
currency conversion took place.
I sympathise with Mr Rs situation and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont think Lloyds did 
anything wrong here. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything. I understand that Mr R has 
concerns about why M gave him a cheque rather than making a bank transfer. Its possible 
this made a difference to the exchange rate and therefore the amount Mr R received. But I 
dont think this was something Lloyds had any control over. Mr R may want to consider 
raising a complaint with M about the method of payment used. But Im afraid that isnt 
something I can look at here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman