DRN-1051995
The complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1997.
What happened
Mr O took out a credit card with MBNA in 1997. In 1998, MBNA sold him a PPI policy during 
a telephone call.
The cost of the PPI was charged to the credit card. So Mr O would repay this with interest in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. If he claimed on the policy, it would repay 
at least 3% of the balance for up to 12 months if he lost his job or was off work sick.
Mr O thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and didn't think MBNA gave Mr O clear enough 
information about the product. The adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld.
MBNA didn't agree. So the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
I've decided to uphold Mr O's complaint. I'll explain why.
Based on what I've seen I don't think MBNA advised Mr O to buy the policy. So it didn't have 
to check if it was right for him. But it did have to give Mr O the information he needed to work 
out for himself whether this was a policy he wanted. 
I don't think the information MBNA gave Mr O about PPI was clear enough. The policy 
provided a limited benefit in the event of a successful claim. Mr O has told us he'd be paid 
for three to six months if he was off work sick, which means he could have met his credit 
card repayments for a while without the policy. So I think Mr O probably wouldn't have 
wanted the policy if he'd properly understood the cost and benefits.
I've thought about what MBNA has said about this. It thinks Mr O got less sick pay - it says it 
called Mr O to ask him for more details about his circumstances, and Mr O told them he only 
got statutory sick pay. I've seen a record of this conversation. But I see that during this call 
Mr O also told MBNA he'd only been working for three months - and that's the same length 
of service shown on the application for credit, in 1997, not when the PPI was taken in 1998. 
So I'm not persuaded that what Mr O told MBNA reflected his circumstances at the time he 
was sold the policy. Mr O thinks that by that time he would have received pay for three to six months if he'd been off work sick. Given he'd been working for his employer for longer I think 
that's plausible - and I don't think that what MBNA has said persuades me he isn't right.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mr O in the financial position he'd be in now if he hadn't taken out PPI.
A.    MBNA should find out how much Mr O would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr O owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.    MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr O would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should 8% a year.
C.    If  when MBNA works out what Mr O would have owed each month without PPI  Mr O 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr O paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr O wouldve 
owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.    MBNA should tell Mr O what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold Mr O's complaint.
MBNA Limited should put things right by doing what I've said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman