DRN-2909751
The complaint
Mr G complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) mishandled his claim
on a car hire excess insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G hired a car for about four weeks from 28th May to 25th June 2019 for use in remote
parts of North America.
On 24 May 2019, Mr G took out hire car excess insurance under which AIG was responsible
for dealing with claims. The period of insurance was for a year from 29 May 2019.
Unfortunately, the vehicle was damaged beyond repair in an incident on 11 June 2019.
The car rental company invoiced Mr G in a local currency equivalent to over £10,000.00.
Mr G had to pay to hire a replacement vehicle. He paid to hire a vehicle on 13 June, then
changed his plans and on 17 June paid to extend that hire.
For the damaged vehicle and for the replacement hire vehicle he made a claim to AIG in
pounds sterling as follows:
For the damaged vehicle £10,788.81
For car hire 13 to 17 June £     326.98
For car hire 17 to 25 June £     461.70
AIG paid the claim in part as follows:
For the damaged vehicle £10,662.91
For car hire 13 to 17 June £     326.98
Mr G complains that he is out of pocket as follows:
For the damaged vehicle
£10,788.81
less £10,662.91
£ 125.90
For car hire 17 to 25 June £ 461.70
By a final response dated 11 December 2019, AIG turned down his complaint. Mr G brought 
his complaint to us in mid-January 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that AIG
treated Mr G unfairly when it refused to fully reimburse his costs when his policy covers him.
She thought that Mr G had spent a significant amount of time in calls and emails to AIG to
resolve this issue. The investigator recommended that AIG should pay Mr G:
1. £125.90 for the damaged vehicle;
2. £461.70 for car hire;
3. £100.00 for trouble and upset.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to AIG on 18 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt found that AIG treated Mr G unfairly and I didnt find it fair and
reasonable to direct it to pay him the sums of £461.70 or £125.90 or compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
AIG had already paid out in excess of the policy limit. That was another reason why I 
didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct AIG to pay any more to Mr G.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from AIG, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct AIG to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
AIG agrees with the provisional decision.
Mr G disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary that:
He asks what are the general items which are not covered. He does not understand 
why he is not covered for the total amount charged by the rental company. This is the 
excess he had to pay. He did not have a choice in this as the money was taken from 
his card.
He does not understand why his insurers are not liable for the replacement hire car. 
The days were within the original booking. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the photographs of the aftermath, Mr G had a frightening accident. And of course, it
disrupted his travel plans.
The AIG policy booklet included the following explanation of its insurance policy:
Your Policy Explained
What is Excess Reimbursement Insurance?
Most car Rental Agreements apply an insurance Excess, which is the amount You
are responsible for paying if the Rental Vehicle suffers any Damage (for example
bumps and scratches). This Excess Reimbursement Insurance is designed to repay
You up to the amount of any Excess You are charged by the Car Rental Company
under the terms of the Rental Agreement
So the purpose of the policy was to cover the Excess charged by the rental company under
the rental agreement. The policy terms defined Excess as follows:
Excess means the amount You are responsible for paying in the event of any
Damage to the Rental Vehicle, as confirmed in Your Rental Agreement.In my view, the policy was to cover liability to the rental company under the rental agreement
in the event of damage. Such liability would typically include liability to the rental company
for damage to its vehicle and liability to the rental company for its loss of use of its vehicle.
The policy terms included the following:
What is Covered
We will pay You up to the Policy Limit, as stated within the Policy for up to the
amount of Excess You have to pay under the terms of the Rental Agreement for
Your Rental Vehicle as a result of:
(a) Damage to the Rental Vehicle;
(b) loss of use of the Rental Vehicle due to Damage;
(c) towing costs resulting from the Damage to the Rental Vehicle; or
(d) towing costs resulting from mechanical breakdown or electrical breakdown of the
Rental Vehicle.
Provided that You are held responsible for the Damage as declared in the Rental
Agreement and are liable for the Excess.
The Policy also provides cover for the cost of repair of Damage to the windows, 
tyres, wheels, headlights, undercarriage and roof of the Rental Vehicle if cover is not
provided for these under the collision damage waiver cover provided by the Car
Rental Company.
So AIG had to pay up to the Policy Limit for the Excess the policyholder was liable to pay
to the rental company under the rental agreement for damage to the rental vehicle.
In my view, the list of points (a) to (d) are the types of such liability that the policyholder
might have.
So point (b) is the policyholders liability to the rental company for its loss of use of its
vehicle. I dont agree with the investigator that point (b) covers the policyholders loss of use
of the vehicle or the policyholders costs of taking out another rental agreement for a
replacement vehicle.
So I dont consider that AIG was under an obligation to make the goodwill payment it made
for the replacement hire of £326.98. And I dont find that AIG treated Mr G unfairly by not
paying the replacement hire of £461.70.
The car rental company issued two documents after the accident. Both of them are
expressed in units of local currency.
One of the documents was an invoice for 17,708.41 units of local currency. It was for the
value of the damaged car, towing charges and an admin fee. The second document was a
statement of account for 17,917.5 units of local currency. That document contained a more
detailed breakdown including charges for the damaged car and charges for hiring that car.
Mr Gs card statement shows that on 26 June 2019, he paid (or the rental company debited
his card) the larger amount. AIG later reimbursed the smaller amount. The difference is not
an exchange rate issue. The conversion rate from Mr Gs card statement has been applied
to both amounts. The difference is 209.09 units of local currency, equating to £125.90.
Ive looked carefully at the documents to see if I can identify what the difference relates to.
But Ive been unable to do so. I cannot explain what are the items that make up the charge 
equating to £125.90. And I consider that the burden is on Mr G to show that thedifference relates to items that are within the policy definition of Excess for which he has 
liability arising from the damage to the vehicle. So I dont find that AIG treated Mr G unfairly 
by not paying the difference of £125.90.
In summary, I havent found that AIG treated Mr G unfairly and I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct it to pay him the sums of £461.70 or £125.90 or compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
In any event, Policy Limit was defined as follows:
Policy Limit means the maximum We will pay in any one Period of Insurance
regardless of the number of claims You make.
The certificate of insurance included the following:
Indemnity Limit per Period of Insurance £6,500.00.
AIG has already paid out in excess of that policy limit. Thats another reason why I dont find
it fair and reasonable to direct AIG to pay any more to Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AIG to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman