DRN-3814127
The complaint
Mr N and Ms C are unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund money 
they lost after they fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows. 
In February 2017, Mr N and Ms C saw a car advertised through an online marketplace that 
they were interested in buying. Having contacted the seller, Mr N and Ms C agreed to 
purchase the vehicle. The seller had requested payment in cash, saying they needed this to 
pay a builder, so on 6 February 2017 Mr N and Ms C made a cash withdrawal for £24,600 
from a branch of RBS.
However, a few days later when they were cleaning the car, Mr N and Ms C noticed the 
chassis number did not match the logbook. Mr N and Ms C reported the matter to the police 
and it came to light the car was stolen and they had unfortunately been dealing with 
fraudsters.
 
In August 2022, Mr N and Ms C raised the matter with RBS. RBS looked into the complaint 
and issued its final response on 4 September 2022 not upholding it. In summary this was 
because it said that when the withdrawal was made in branch, Mr N and Ms C would have 
been asked multiple questions around the reason for the transaction and it didnt think its 
staff member would have had reason to believe the payment was fraudulent. 
Unhappy with the response from RBS, Mr N and Ms C then brought their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary she thought that even if RBS had intervened and asked further 
questions, she didnt think it would have suspected Mr N and Ms C were at risk of financial 
harm. She added that she couldnt fairly and reasonably say RBS should have foreseen the 
vehicle was stolen. 
Mr N and Ms C, through their representatives didnt agree with our investigators view. In 
summary they argued that RBS ought to have specifically told Mr N and Ms C to check the 
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) on the car, against the logbook. And they said, if it had 
of done, this would have exposed the scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr N and Ms C, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about RBSs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
withdrawal to be made.
 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont think I can fairly say RBS 
should reimburse Mr N and Ms C the £24,600 they unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill 
explain why.
Mr N and Ms C were making a cash withdrawal for a substantial sum. And when comparing 
this to their usual account activity, I dont think it was typical for them to make a transaction 
of this type. So I think it ought to have alerted RBS to the potential that Mr N and Ms C may 
have been at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that RBS dont contest this, as its 
explained that at the time its branch staff would have asked multiple questions about the 
payment. 
Unfortunately RBS has explained it has been unable to obtain specific branch testimony, 
which is not surprising given the time that has passed. So Ive gone on to consider what kind 
of intervention I would have expected, and whether I think this fairly and reasonably would 
more likely than not have made a difference.
Stolen car scams do occur and they are often highly organised and sophisticated, but they 
are not the most common type of scam we see. Back in 2017, we would have expected a 
firm to look out for common scams, to ask questions about the purpose of a payment and for 
it to act on any suspicions it may have, given what it is being told and what it knows. 
In the specific circumstances of this case, I would have expected RBS to ask some 
questions about the payment. For example, it could have asked what the payment was for, 
whether Mr N and Ms C had seen the vehicle and whether they had carried out any 
research. Had RBS asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mr N and Ms C would 
have been able to give plausible and persuasive answers to the bank. They would have 
been able to explain theyd carried out checks, by way of a HPI check, and had seen and 
test driven the vehicle. Importantly they would also have been able to say they were taking 
possession of it. 
I dont think the answers Mr N and Ms C would likely have given, would have demonstrated 
the usual hallmarks of scams involving the purchase of vehicles, where typically victims dont 
tend to see or take possession of a vehicle, before paying money to the fraudsters. 
Im mindful Mr N and Ms Cs representatives believe RBS should have advised Mr N and  
Ms C to check the VIN number. While the VIN is something that could have been spoken 
about, it is not for this service to dictate what a bank should say or ask. And the questions a 
bank asks are likely to be guided by what answers theyve been given and what they know, 
but its too high an expectation to expect a bank to cover off every eventuality. 
Overall and on balance, given the answers I think Mr N and Ms C are likely to have given, I 
think RBS would have been satisfied Mr N and Ms C were not at risk of financial harm. I 
think it would be unreasonable to think RBS would have continued to have concerns and, in 
the absence of any other red flags, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say RBS should 
have foreseen that the vehicle may have been stolen.
As the cash was given directly to the fraudsters, there was no opportunity for RBS to make 
attempts to try and recover the money Mr N and Ms C sadly lost.Its very unfortunate Mr N and Ms C have lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, and I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for 
them. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say RBS should have done more to 
prevent them losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
RBS to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman