DRN-3402316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs M made a subsidence claim.
AXA accepted the claim and appointed loss adjusters (Company A) and repair works 
were completed in August 2019.
There was a dispute between parties around this time about the extent of the works. 
AXA said it would only repair parts of the home that were damaged by subsidence. 
Mr and Mrs M eventually agreed and appointed the same contractor (Person H) used 
by AXA to complete repairs to other parts of the property.
Mr and Mrs M have since appointed a building surveyor to inspect the works. These 
suggested the repairs completed by Person H were not effective and of poor quality.
Our Investigator directed AXA to revisit the property and redo any necessary repairs, 
including those carried out privately by Person H. As well as refund the cost of the 
report Mr and Mrs M had obtained, and £200 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed. And AXA agreed to all recommendations, except to cover any 
private works. It said this was a separate contract between the consumer and Person 
H outside of the claim. In light of its comments, our Investigator looked again and 
agreed AXA shouldnt be required to cover any private works.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, saying that theyd hired Person H on the basis he would be 
professional and competent as AXA had appointed him already. And that having a 
separate contractor would create a difficult situation of two tradespeople working on 
essentially one job. They also argued an email from Person H suggested they had a 
three-year guarantee instead of a one-year warranty they were later told about.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And for the same reasons given by our 
Investigator previously.
AXA has agreed the works completed by its agent Person H were not of the required 
standard. And it has agreed to cover the necessary repairs that fall under this claim. It has 
also agreed to compensate Mr and Mrs M £200.
So, the subject that remains in dispute is whether AXA should be liable for the repairs that 
Person H completed outside of the contract of insurance in a private arrangement.
I wouldnt typically expect an insurers liability to extend to works carried out under a 
separate contract. And taking into the circumstances here, I dont consider whats happened 
here to be an exception to this. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M have said they felt compelled to use Person H in light of what 
they considered to be AXAs apparent endorsement. But it ultimately was still completed as 
a separate contract between parties. Simply meaning the contract Mr and Mrs M have for 
the works outside of the claim are between them and Person H. 
While I understand the situation, I dont think AXAs use of Person H means that Mr and Mrs 
H were forced to use this contractor. Nor do I think AXAs use of Person H for insured works 
means it should be responsible for wider works completed by him outside of the claim.
Within the contract for private works with Person H, Mr and Mrs M will have had their own 
rights to complain or take legal action for losses they believe theyve been caused. These 
arent for me to comment on as this sits outside of the scope of this Service or the complaint 
against AXA Ive been asked to consider.
Mr and Mrs M have also commented on the warranty/guarantee theyve been provided. But 
again, any discussion about this warranty or guarantee is between them and Person H, and 
not AXA. So, this doesnt change my mind.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
Complete the necessary repairs for all of insured works; 
Refund Mr and Mrs M the cost of the report they obtained on receipt of an invoice;
Pay Mr and Mrs M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman