DRN-4235917
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed her account. She would like a reason 
as well as a refund for fees and charges incurred.
What happened
Mrs R had an account with Revolut.
During August 2022 Revolut carried out a review of Mrs Rs account. On 1 September 2022 
Revolut wrote to Mrs R giving her 60 days notice of their intention to close her account. 
Mrs R has said she wasnt given a reason for the closure.
She said she paid a service fee of £120 for one years worth of service on 1 June 2022 but 
her account was closed on 31 October 2022.Mrs R also paid £39.99 for an additional card 
she didnt get a chance to use.
Mrs R was also concerned that she had had to sell her investments at a time not of her 
choosing because Revolut had decided to close the account. This meant she had lost 
money.
Revolut said they were entitled to close the account and relied on their terms and conditions.
Mrs R was unhappy with their response, so she complained to our service. She said she 
thought Revolut had made a mistake in closing her account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. he said Revolut were entitled to close the 
account and they had relied on their terms and conditions to do so. He said Mrs R didnt 
have to be given a reason for the closure, so Revolut hadnt acted unfairly in not giving her a 
reason. He thought Revolut should refund the additional card fee and a pro rata of the 
annual fee. He didnt think Revolut were responsible for Mrs Rs investment losses as the 
account had been fairly closed.
In response to the view Mrs R said she didnt think Revolut had applied their terms correctly 
and she wanted to know the reason for the closure.
Revolut agreed with the view. They agreed to pay Mrs R £39.99 and a pro rata refund of her 
account fee together with 8% interest.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Rs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mrs Rs account. 
These obligations mean revolut have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. This is reflected in Revoluts terms and conditions. These say Revolut can 
block an account or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry 
out further checks. The terms and conditions of the account also allow Revolut to close and 
suspend accounts immediately in some circumstances.
Im satisfied that Revolut acted fairly when they reviewed Mrs Rs account.
Revolut proceeded to give notice to close the account on 1 September 2022. Revolut said it 
would close the account in 60 days but during that time Mrs R wouldnt be able to transact 
on the account other than to convert her holdings into her base currency and transfer out of 
the account.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Mrs Rs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Revolut in effect closed 
Mrs Rs account without notice as she wasnt able to transact as she wished. For Revolut to 
act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  
and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that Revolut has applied 
the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. 
Mrs R has said she wants to know the reason for the closure of her account. She has 
suggested that as she hasnt been given a reason, the closure of her account may have 
been an error on the part of Revolut. I appreciate that Mrs R is upset and frustrated by the 
closure of the account and not being given a reason. However, having looked at the 
evidence I am satisfied that Revolut did not make an error when they reviewed and closed 
Mrs Rs account. And whilst Mrs R mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, 
Revolut isnt required to give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say 
Revolut has done anything wrong by not giving Mrs R this information  as much as shed 
like to know.
Mrs R was unhappy that Revolut had charged her for an extra card and for the full annual 
fees when she only used her account for half the year. Revolut have agreed with the 
investigator that these amounts should be refunded and having looked at the evidence I 
agree this is fair and reasonable.
Mrs R has mentioned that because of the closure she had to liquidate her investment 
specifically her cryptocurrency and she incurred losses. Mrs R has said she wanted to 
transfer her Cryptocurrency to a friend, but Revolut would only allow her to liquidate this and 
convert it to her base currency. 
I appreciate that Mrs R had to liquidate her investments at a time not of her choosing. I 
appreciate she may have incurred losses as a result. However, as Ive said Revolut were entitled to close the account and did so fairly, so although I acknowledge the losses, I cant 
say Revolut should compensate Mrs R for these losses.
Mrs R has said Revolut have breached the FCA principles in particular principle 2, 6 and 7.
Principle 2 says: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6 states: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7 states: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
I think Mrs R is saying Revolut shouldnt have closed her account and because they havent 
given her a reason for the account closure, it means they arent treating her fairly or 
communicating with her in a clear and fair way. 
I accept Miss R would like to know the reasons for the account closure and she disagrees 
Revolut have acted fairly in closing the account. She doesnt think they can rely on Clause 
23 and 24 to do what they have done. However, I have looked at the evidence and Im 
satisfied Revolut acted fairly when they closed the account. And as Ive said before I dont 
think Revolut have done anything wrong by not giving Mrs R the reason for the account 
closure. It follows I dont think Revolut have breached the SRA principles.
In summary I appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think 
Revolut acted unfairly when they reviewed and closed Mrs Rs account. And I dont think 
they are obliged to give Mrs R a reason for the closure, so I dont think they have acted 
unfairly.
Putting things right
However, Revolut should pay Mrs R £39.99 and a pro rata refund of her £150 account fee 
together with 8% interest for the time she was deprived of those funds.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold the complaint. I require Revolut Ltd to pay 
Mrs R £39.99 and a pro rata refund of her £150 account fee together with 8% interest for the 
time she was deprived of those funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman