DRN-3798115
The complaint
Mr W complains that Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox delayed his transfer 
and provided poor customer service which led him to miss out on a house purchase.
What happened
Mr W had a 32 day notice savings account and he deposited over £70,000 into the account. 
On 28 April 2022, he used the chat facility to let Moneybox know he had changed his linked 
current account and he asked if they had confirmation of this as he intended to make a 
withdrawal from the account. Moneybox said that he had cancelled a direct debit to the new 
account he wanted it to be linked to, but they said once he made a withdrawal, then the 
system would update. On 30 April 2022, he requested a withdrawal from the account to a 
third party bank account. 
On 6 May 2022, Moneybox told Mr W that they needed to investigate this further for him as 
they said his current account switch had not fully settled from their end. He explained to 
Moneybox he had switched current accounts, but the funds needed to be transferred to 
either the new or the old account (as it would be redirected to the new account) by 2 June 
2022. Mr W made a complaint to Moneybox. He also said that their application (app) give 
wrong information about when the funds would be available. 
The funds were paid to his account by 2 June. Moneybox upheld Mr Ws complaint. Initially 
they offered him £20 compensation. They then increased this to £100. They said Mr W 
cancelled his direct debit mandate during the process of the current account switch, which 
meant their system did not process his new third party bank account details and they were 
unable to verify his new bank account. As a result, his withdrawal request submission was 
delayed. They said they appreciated they could have handled his case better, and they 
prefunded his withdrawal to ensure he did not experience any delays past the given 32 days 
notice period. Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said he thought the £100 compensation offer was fair. He said Mr W 
requested withdrawal of the funds on 30 April 2022 and the funds were made available to 
him on 1 June 2022, meaning there was no breach of the 32-day notice period. He said the 
app gave the wrong information to Mr W about when the funds would be available, and there 
were delays in updating him. He said the chat log also shows he was advised by Moneybox 
that he would be sent the funds in line with the 32 days notice.
Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said he spoke with seven people at Moneybox throughout the process, who 
gave him contradicting information, such as one agent asking him personal questions before 
withdrawing this request, he lost out on a house purchase as Moneybox couldnt tell him the 
date of when the money would come back to him and the app gave him the wrong date the 
money was due to be paid to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Theres no doubt that the app displayed the wrong withdrawal date. I asked Moneybox why 
the date was displayed as it was, and they told me that following their decision to make an 
exception in this case, as they manually verified Mr Ws original bank account, they actioned 
the withdrawal on their side. This meant that Mr W would have seen in the app that the 
payment due date was 20 June 2022 as that would be 32 days from 17 May 2022. 
But Ive also considered the chat history which Mr W has had with Moneybox. While the app 
may have displayed an incorrect date for when the funds were due, there are instances 
when the chat agents had confirmed the correct date that the funds would be released. After 
the message on 6 May where the agent advises Mr W they would be investigating matters 
further, they communicate back and forth. On 13 May, Mr W is told Once we have 
completed our checks, you will receive your funds 32 days from when you initiated the 
withdrawal on 30 April 2022.  On 17 May, the chat agent tells Mr W To confirm, you will 
receive the money in line with the 32 Day Notice period from when you requested the 
withdrawal.
So Im satisfied that Moneybox were clear that he would receive the money in line with the 
terms and conditions  in line with the 32 day notice period and this was confirmed on more 
than one occasion by chat agents prior to Mr W receiving the funds. So the money was paid 
out to Mr W when it was due to be paid, regardless of any further investigations which were 
completed. So I cant hold Moneybox responsible for him losing out on a house purchase 
when they paid the funds in line with the terms and conditions even though Mr W believes 
they only paid him the funds then to limit the amount of compensation they would have to 
pay him. 
I asked our investigator if he could ask Mr W to provide details of the call(s) he made to 
Moneybox, so I could request any call recordings of these, but he did not provide us with this 
information. So I asked Moneybox if Mr W had rung them to discuss this issue between 1 
April - 30 June 2022. Moneybox provided evidence that they had searched the call system 
from 1 December 2021 and there were two missed incoming calls showing from Mr Ws 
mobile telephone number, but these were both in December 2022. There were no calls 
showing from his landline and they said there system doesnt show any other calls from Mr 
W including any other unregistered telephone numbers. So there are no call recordings of 
telephone recordings for me to listen to here.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about speaking to seven different people who had given 
him contradicting information. I asked Moneybox why he had spoken to many different 
agents, and they told me this was due to the different stages of the chat. For example, the 
role of the first chat agent was a support team executive, the next agent was a senior 
support team executive, then a member of the anti-money laundering team, then he spoke to 
a different agent when he requested the withdrawal and then a member of the compliance 
team. But Moneybox do recognise his case could have been handled better, and thats why 
they said they increased the compensation.  
Ive also considered the time it took for Mr W to receive responses from Moneybox. On some 
occasions there were quick responses such as the chat on 30 April when Mr W had made 
the withdrawal request, but there were other occasions where Mr W was left waiting for a 
response. On 6 May  the day Moneybox said there would be further investigations, Mr W responded 
to the agent, but it was five days later when he received a response. In addition, he received 
a message from an agent on 19 May asking for information about his employment status 
and source of funds. in this instance, the agent hadnt realised that Mr W had already been 
dealing with a separate agent regarding extra checks. So this would have inconvenienced 
Mr W by having to respond to this message.
Im persuaded that Moneybox did let Mr W down at times. Not only did the app show an 
incorrect due date for the withdrawal, but they occasionally did not reply to Mr W in a timely 
manner, despite the urgency of him needing the money by the actual due date, albeit he did 
end up receiving the funds on the correct due date and he was told on more than one 
occasion prior to the due date that he would receive the funds in line with his original 
withdrawal request date.
So Ive considered what compensation would be fair for Moneybox to pay Mr W. While Im 
not persuaded they were responsible for him missing out on a house purchase for the 
reasons Ive already given. And that the money was paid to Mr W in line with their terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied that some of the communication from Moneybox could have been 
better. They could have replied to him quicker than they did on occasions and the agent who 
asked him for the employment details could have realised that he was already speaking to a 
different security agent. Moneybox have confirmed to me that this is part of their process to 
ask for this, but they made an exception on this occasion due to his existing bank account 
being verified. Which is a reasonable thing to do, but Mr W was still inconvenienced by 
having to respond to an agent who shouldnt have messaged him based on the separate 
security agent already being in contact with Mr W.
Im persuaded that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. Im persuaded that this 
recognises the distress and inconvenience that Mr W suffered in relation to the customer 
service issues he faced. Had Moneybox not increased the compensation to Mr W, then I 
would have increased the compensation to £100. But it would not be proportionate for a 
further increase to the compensation as Moneybox paid the withdrawal in line with the terms 
in conditions. So it follows, that Moneybox should pay Mr W £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience if they havent already done so, but I dont require them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox has already made an offer to pay Mr W £100 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox should pay £100 to Mr 
W if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman