DRN-2929795
The complaint
Mr S  on behalf of his mother, Mrs G  complains that British Gas Insurance Limited acted 
unfairly by automatically renewing Mrs Gs home emergency policy without her agreement, 
increasing the premium at each renewal.
What happened
Mrs G had a HomeCare home emergency policy with British Gas. She is represented by her 
son as a result of her medical condition.
In early 2020, Mr S reviewed his mothers finances. He found that British Gas had 
automatically renewed Mrs Gs HomeCare policy each year since 2016 and her premium 
had increased at each renewal. 
Mr S says, in summary, that British Gas renewed his mothers policy without her explicit 
agreement, and this disadvantaged her due to her illness. He says that if the policy hadnt 
automatically renewed, Mr S would have been able to either negotiate a better deal with 
British Gas or change provider. As a result, he believes his mother has overpaid more than 
£1,000 in premiums. He would like British Gas to refund this.
British Gas told Mr S that its policies were individually priced based on various risk elements 
such as boiler make, model and age, size and type of heating system, and customer 
location. It said the cover automatically renewed each year unless the policyholder cancelled 
it, and it wrote to Mrs G at least 25 days before each renewal to tell her this.
Mr S didnt think this response was acceptable, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought British 
Gas explanation of how it priced the HomeCare policy was reasonable. He found no 
evidence that it had calculated Mrs Gs premiums incorrectly. He didnt think the automatic 
renewal of the policy was unfair or that British Gas had any reason to think Mrs G was 
unable to understand the policy documents. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 June 2021. I said:
First, Mr S has made strong arguments about British Gas policy of automatic renewal, 
specifically in relation to how this affects vulnerable or disabled customers, the Mental 
Capacity Act 2005, and the Equality Act 2010. He wants British Gas to change this policy to 
ensure that vulnerable disabled customers are not placed at a disadvantage compared to 
able-bodied customers. He suggested several ways to address this.
I understand why Mr S feels so strongly about this but Im afraid this service doesnt have 
the power to investigate this or order the sort of policy intervention he wants. That would be 
for the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I respectfully suggest he 
contacts the FCA about this. The role of this service is to look at individual complaints. In this 
case, I need to consider whether British Gas disadvantaged his mother when it renewed her 
policy.
Having done so, I think it did. Ill explain why.
The General Conditions section of Mrs Gs policy booklet (page 26) covers renewal: Well 
write to you at least 25 days before your agreement is due for renewal. If you pay by Direct 
Debit, or are an Energy Extra customer, well keep renewing your agreement automatically, 
until you ask us to stop. So Im satisfied that the policy term allows British Gas to renew the 
policy automatically.
But the more important question for me is: was it fair or reasonable for British Gas to rely on 
this term? I agree with Mr S when he says that what the policy terms allow British Gas to do 
isnt really the issue here  its whether his mother was treated fairly given her illness.
Its important to say that I accept British Gas was unaware of Mrs Gs illness. Im conscious 
that her condition places her in an extremely vulnerable position. However, I havent seen 
any evidence to show that British Gas could reasonably have known this or that she was 
unable to manage her policy. Mr S has also acknowledged that British Gas was not aware 
at the time of her diagnosis of her disability.
However, when a customer hasnt spoken to their insurer after receiving their renewal 
quotes for more than four years, we think its fair to say they were inert. At that point we 
think an insurer ought to have been aware the customer wasnt engaging.
We asked British Gas to send us Mrs Gs premium history. Ive reviewed this and there are a 
few things to note: 
British Gas was unable to provide us with the premium history before 2014.
Its records show the policy was incepted in or around 2009. This is consistent with 
information provided by Mr S.
That means I dont know the historic increases to the premium from 2009 to 2014.
Similarly, British Gas doesnt have a record of when Mrs G began paying by direct 
debit, but it told us her policy was automatically renewed from at least 2014.
The premium increased by 38.5% between 2014 and 2019.
The most significant increase (13.9%) was in 2018. British Gas told us this was due 
to a change in its rating structure to better reflect risk as well as the removal of a 
couple of discounts.
The original 2019 premium at automatic renewal was £711.06. Mr S was able to 
reduce this to £545.42 following his call to British Gas in April 2020.
Mrs G took out her policy in 2009. Assuming the policy renewed automatically each year, 
this means the inertia point might have been as early as 2013. British Gas didnt provide a 
full record of its communications with Mrs G. The records it did provide only show call-outs 
and work carried out. However, unless Im reading these records wrong, they suggest there 
was no contact with Mrs G at all between November 2014 and July 2019.
I think its reasonable to say the reason Mrs G didnt engage with British Gas was because 
of her illness. I think its also reasonable to say her illness meant she couldnt shop around 
when invited to do so by British Gas 25-day renewal letter. So I dont think British Gas acted 
fairly by continuing to increase Mrs Gs premium after shed stopped engaging.
Ive thought carefully about exactly when Mrs G stopped engaging with her policy renewal. Her illness was diagnosed in August 2016, a few weeks before British Gas sent her the 25-
day renewal letter for 2016. Mr S suggested this date should be the starting point for any 
redress. Given the circumstances of this case and lack of a clearly identifiable point where 
Mrs G stopped engaging with British Gas, I think thats fair.
The question now is how to put things right. Mr S asked that British Gas refund 
approximately £1,100 in excess premiums. He calculated this based on the revised premium 
agreed with British Gas in April 2020 of £26.61 per month. He compared that monthly 
premium to Mrs Gs premiums between August 2016 and April 2020. However, Im afraid 
this isnt a fair comparison. 
Mrs Gs 2019 premium was reduced from £711.06 to £545.42 following Mr Ss April 2020 
call. But because Mrs G had been paying £59.25 per month since October 2019, shed 
already paid roughly £415 for the year. This meant the outstanding premium for the 
remaining five months of the policy term was only about £130 (or £26.21 per month). Had 
she paid this reduced 2019 premium from the outset, her monthly payments would have 
been £45.45 (£545.42 / 12).
But even that wouldnt be a completely fair comparison. Mr S added a £60 excess to the 
policy where previously there was a zero excess. Thats a significant change as it reduced 
British Gas liability in the event of a claim and was an important factor in British Gas 
reducing the 2019 premium.
I think British Gas should refund the difference between Mrs Gs 2015 premium (£542.10) 
and what she actually paid in 2016, 2017 and 2018. I dont think it needs to refund any part 
of the 2019 premium for the reasons above. (In any case, the difference between the 2015 
and 2019 premiums is minimal.) So, at this stage I think British Gas should refund:
£9.80 for 2016;
£46.30 for 2017; and 
£128.10 for 2018.
It should add interest to these amounts at 8% per year.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party agreed with my provisional decision. 
British Gas doesnt agree it acted unfairly by automatically renewing Mrs Gs policy without 
her agreement. It said:
The FCA recently published new rules on general insurance pricing. It didnt ban 
auto-renewal.
If it had asked Mrs G to renew at the end of the policy year, there would have been a 
real risk that she would not have realised that she needed to take positive action and 
her policy would have lapsed. This would have left her uninsured if her boiler had 
broken down.
Theres no evidence Mrs Gs renewal pricing was unfair or unreasonable.
It strongly disagreed with my finding that Mrs G had become an inert customer 
because A customer who is regularly claiming under the policy cannot possibly be 
considered inert. It said Mrs G was regularly engaging with us by arranging her 
annual boiler service.
It provided a service history showing Mrs Gs boiler was serviced every year from 
2013 to 2019. It said Mrs G would have had to book an appointment and be present for the boiler inspection to take place. It rejected my finding that there was no contact 
with Mrs G between November 2014 and July 2019.
Conversely, Mr S doesnt believe my proposed award goes far enough. He made another 
detailed submission, summarised below. He says:
Although Mrs Gs illness was diagnosed in August 2016, shed been suffering its 
symptoms for several years before diagnosis. 
British Gas acted unfairly by renewing the policy after Mrs G stopped engaging.
My provisional findings suggested Mrs G had stopped engaging with British Gas in 
November 2014. Mr S says that should be the point of inertia. This means redress 
should potentially be calculated from that date.
Alternatively, redress could be calculated from the mid-point between November 
2014 and his mothers diagnosis in August 2016; that is, from October 2015.
The negotiated reduction in April 2020 shouldnt be seen as Mr S being happy with 
either British Gas or the cost of cover.
Mr S argues that redress should be based on one of the following scenarios: 
cancelling the policy (backdated to October 2015); 
cancelling the policy and Mr S buying a new policy on his mothers behalf at a new 
customer promotional rate of £24 per month (backdated to October 2015);
reducing the premium to £26.61 per month, based on the revised 2019 premium 
(backdated to October 2015);
cancelling the policy (backdated to November 2018).
cancelling the policy (backdated to November 2018), plus my proposed partial refund 
of premiums for 2016, 2017, and 2018.
Based on his four scenarios, Mr S believes his mother should be refunded between £973.21 
and £2,767.31.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for their considered and detailed responses.
British Gas made some general points in response to Mr Ss wider comments about auto-
renewal. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont intend to comment on 
those. Ill simply say that weve had an established approach to these complaints for some 
time now, and the FCAs market study and findings helped to inform this approach.
Instead, I think British Gas most relevant argument is that Mrs G arranged her boiler service 
each year, which means she shouldnt be considered an inert customer. Its worth setting out 
this point in full:
[The process of arranging an annual service] would have involved us contacting her 
to remind her that an annual service visit was due, her responding to book an 
appointment at a convenient time, and her (or her representative) being present at 
the property at the time of the inspection. Therefore, we consider that Mrs G has 
been actively engaging with us on a regular basis concerning the booking of and 
fulfilment of her annual service visits.Ill make four points about this. 
First, I noted in my provisional decision that British Gas hadnt provided a full record of its 
communications with Mrs G. The service history it originally sent us showed no work carried 
out between November 2014 and July 2019. I now accept that it carried out a boiler service 
each year between 2013 and 2019. It would have been helpful if it had provided the full 
service history at the outset.
Second, British Gas still hasnt provided evidence of any communication from Mrs G. The 
contact notes it sent us show only outbound letters. It asks me to rely on its assumption that 
Mrs G contacted it each year to arrange her annual boiler inspection.
Third, British Gas is effectively arguing that Mrs G was capable of discussing her policy 
renewal in 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019, despite having been diagnosed with an illness that 
meant such conversations would have been difficult and/or confusing to her. That isnt 
reasonable.
Finally, our consideration of this type of complaint focuses on what the customer did at 
renewal. Even if I accept that Mrs G contacted British Gas to arrange her annual boiler 
inspection, this doesnt automatically mean it acted fairly by increasing her premium when it 
renewed her policy.
Mrs Gs policy auto-renewed every year from at least 2013 without Mrs G ever having 
contacted British Gas to discuss it. This despite successive annual premium increases of 
6.6%, 13.9%, and 6.1% in 2017, 2018, and 2019. Put another way, Mrs Gs policy increased 
by almost £200 between 2014 and 20191. So I dont agree with British Gas that Mrs G 
shouldnt be considered an inert customer simply because her boiler was serviced each 
year.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded by British Gas response and see no reason to change 
my provisional decision to uphold the complaint. 
Having said that, I dont think Mr Ss proposals are fair either. 
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to retrospectively cancel the policy and refund Mrs Gs 
premiums, as Mr S suggests. Mrs G clearly had a benefit from her policy  the annual 
service. It could reasonably be argued that these services maintained the boiler in good 
working order, reducing the risk of breakdown and/or the need for Mrs G to make a claim. 
Nor is it reasonable to assume Mrs G (or Mr S on her behalf) would have been able to 
cancel the policy in October 2015 and immediately buy a new policy using a new customer 
premium of £24 per month. While Mr S provided a screenshot showing this current 
promotion, theres no evidence British Gas was offering this in October 2015. In fact, I think 
its very unlikely Mrs G would have been able to get this. Mr S was only able to get a 
reduction to £45.45 per month on her behalf in April 2020, and this primarily because he 
increased the excess from zero to £60.
Finally, I explained in my provisional decision why assessing any redress against a revised 
premium of £26.61 per month was incorrect.
I cant be sure what Mrs G might have paid for her insurance if she  or her representative  
had shopped around or engaged about the price, so I cant put her back in the position she 
1 Both increases calculated against the original 2019 premium, before Mr S negotiated the reduction 
in April 2020.would have been in. Instead, Ive considered what fair compensation might look like to put 
right any unfairness. 
I think its reasonable to say the reason Mrs G didnt engage with British Gas was because 
of her illness. I accept that Mrs G would have been suffering from her illness before it was 
formally diagnosed. However, I cant know if her illness was so advanced that it meant she 
wasnt able to engage with British Gas ahead of renewal in, say, September 2015. 
In the circumstances, I think her diagnosis in August 2016 is a reasonable cut-off point 
where its clear she was no longer able to engage with her insurer. British Gas should refund 
the difference between the 2015 premium and what Mrs G paid in 2016, 2017, and 2018, 
plus interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
refund the difference between Mrs Gs 2015 premium and her premiums for 2016, 
2017, and 2018; and
add interest to these amounts at 8% simple per year from the date each premium 
was paid to the date of settlement*.
*If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs on Mrs Gs behalf, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S  on Mrs Gs 
behalf  to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman