DRN-2743526
The complaint
  Mrs D is unhappy with the compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has offered to 
settle her complaint related to PPI sold alongside a credit card.
What happened
 Barclays wrote to Mrs D in September 2019 agreeing to uphold her complaint that the PPI 
sold alongside her credit card ending 8410 was mis-sold. Barclays sent Mrs D a cheque for 
£612.89 which was the amount of compensation the offer letter said was due.
When the cheque arrived, it was made payable to Mrs Ds maiden name so she contacted 
Barclays who told her to return the cheque with evidence of her marriage and it would 
reissue the cheque. Mrs D did this but heard nothing more. 
Mrs D chased for this payment several times and was supported by the Citizens Advice 
Bureau (CAB). In April 2020 she still had not received the payment, so she brought her 
complaint to this service. Barclays eventually paid the compensation in July 2020 to Mrs D 
by transferring £612.76 directly into Mrs Ds bank account.
It is unclear why the amount actually paid in July 2020 was slightly less than what had been 
originally offered and sent by cheque. Also, Mrs D had not had the use of this money for the 
amount of the costs of the PPI, until July 2020, but Barclays had not updated the 
compensatory interest part of the compensation to the date of payment.
Our adjudicator recommended that Barclays update the compensatory interest and also 
make a payment for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs D for the way Barclays had dealt 
with her complaint.
Barclays offered some compensation for the trouble and upset but didnt agree to update the 
compensatory interest to the date of final payment.
As the business does not agree with what our adjudicator recommended the matter has 
been passed to me to consider.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  When Mrs D complained to Barclays that she had been mis-sold the PPI associated with 
her credit card ending 8410, Barclays agreed to uphold her complaint and offered to pay her 
compensation. As Barclays upheld the complaint, in this decision I am not considering how 
the PPI came to be sold. Im only considering if the compensation Barclays has paid, for the 
mis-sold PPI on credit card account ending 8410, is fair. 
When PPI is mis-sold we expect a business to pay compensation that refunds all the costs 
the consumer paid for the PPI and also to pay compensatory interest for any period a 
consumer did not have the use of this money and so was out of pocket. 
I think  what  Barclays  calculated  as the redress  compensation  to refund  the costs  of 
the PPI was fair. This included  the premiums  paid of £210.57  plus £83.09  of interest  
that those  premiums  caused  on the account.  In addition,  Barclays  offered  £399.03  
(before  tax) of compensatory  interest,  which  after tax of £79.80,  gave  a total of 
£319.23  compensatory  interest.  
Barclays  wrote  to Mrs D on 19 September  2019  setting  out this offer to pay a total of 
£612.89  for the PPI costs  and compensatory  interest.  With that letter  it enclosed  a 
cheque  for this amount.  When  Barclays  made  the calculation,  it would  seem  the 8% 
simple  interest  to compensate  Mrs D for being  out of pocket  for the redress  was also 
fair, based  on the date of that initial  calculation  and the cheque  being  sent with the 
letter  in September  2019.  
However,  Mrs D wrote  back  to Barclays  on 4 October  2019  returning  the cheque,  
indicating  she had got married  and as the cheque  was made  payable  to her previous  
name,  she could  not bank  it. She also enclosed  a copy  of her marriage  certificate  and 
other  documents  to prove  her change  of name.  She requested  the cheque  was 
reissued  in her married  name.  
Mrs D chased the payment later in October 2019 but Barclays did not send any replacement 
cheque or any information about the cheque. It seems Mrs D sought some guidance from 
the CAB in December 2019 about this. Some records from the CAB have been provided and 
these indicate Mrs D sought advice in early December 2019 and she went to see them again 
in February 2020. The notes indicate that in February 2020 nothing had been heard from 
Barclays about the replacement cheque in Mrs Ds married name. 
The CAB records provided show that a call was made to Barclays at their offices with Mrs D 
present in February 2020. These notes indicate when Barclays was contacted it said a 
cheque had now been sent to the Insolvency Service, as it seemed Mrs D had entered a 
bankruptcy at some point a few years before.
 
The CAB, still with Mrs D present, then rang the Insolvency Service who said they had 
received the cheque from Barclays but had no interest in it and the money had been 
returned to Barclays. So a further call was made to Barclays who then confirmed the 
returned cheque from the Insolvency Service had been received by the bank on 25 January 
2020. Barclays said it would raise a new cheque to be sent to Mrs D which would be 
expedited.
By the end of March 2020 Mrs D still had not received the payment and brought her 
complaint to this service. Eventually on 8 July 2020 Barclays made a BACS payment to 
Mrs D for the amount of £612.76.
This payment to Mrs D was made some ten months after Barclays sent its original offer letter 
and cheque for £612.89 to Mrs D in the wrong name. But the payment seems to have 
reduced very slightly to £612.76 and no review of the compensatory interest was 
undertaken, and additional compensatory interest paid, for the further ten months Mrs D was 
out of pocket.
I have  noted  Barclays  comments  about  not being  responsible  for any additional  
compensatory  interest.  It says  that after Mrs D returned  the cheque  in her previous  name,  it reviewed  the complaint  and realised  that Mrs D had a few years  earlier  been  
made  bankrupt.  So Barclays  contacted  the Insolvency  Service  who said it had an 
interest  in the payment,  so a cheque  was sent to the Insolvency  Service  on 7 January  
2020  for the compensation.  
Barclays  has provided  a copy  of a letter  it says  was sent to Mrs D on the same  date 
in January  that it sent the cheque  to the Insolvency  Service.  This letter  indicates  the 
payment  of £612.89  has been  made  to the Insolvency  Service  and Mrs D should  
contact  that Service  if she has any issues  about  this.
However,  it seems  Mrs D never  received  this letter.  This is shown,  in view of the fact 
she was chasing  Barclays  for the payment,  and seeking  support  from the CAB.  If she 
had received  the letter  and contacted  the Insolvency  Service,  she may have  been  
paid the money  from that Service.  So, it seems  she knew  nothing  about  this referral  
to the Insolvency  Service  until the calls made  by the CAB  on her behalf  to Barclays,  
at the end of February  2010.
The Insolvency  Service  said it had no interest  in the payment  and returned  this 
payment  to Barclays.  Barclays  confirmed  to the CAB  that it had received  the returned  
payment  from the Insolvency  Service  on 25 January  2020,  so only just over two 
weeks  after it was sent.  But even  though  it had received  the money  back,  Barclays  
did nothing  to rectify  this situation  and take steps  to now make  the payment  to Mrs D, 
as it had said it would  in October  2019.
There  is a requirement  on Barclays  to pay compensatory  interest  on any amount  a 
consumer  is out of pocket  as a result  of a business  mis-selling  PPI. The consumer  is 
entitled  to compensatory  interest  until the offer agreed  as the final settlement  is paid 
to the consumer,  and so they are no longer  out of pocket.  
Here  Mrs D did not receive  the payment  in a format  she could  use until it was paid 
into her account  in July 2020.  So she was out of pocket  until July 2020.  The cheque  
Barclays  sent to her originally,  she couldnt  cash,  and that money  therefore  remained  
in Barclays  account  and Mrs S was out of pocket.  
The Insolvency  Service  returned  the money  to Barclays  in around  two weeks  of it 
being  sent,  so Mrs D  and any accounts  held on her behalf   still remained  out of 
pocket  for this amount.  Barclays  has held this money  throughout  the whole  period.  
Therefore,  Barclays  should  have  updated  the compensatory  interest  to the date it 
made  the payment  that Mrs D did receive  in her account  in July 2020.  So, she is 
owed  additional  compensatory  interest  on the redress  amount  from September  2019  
to July 2020.
Barclays  argues  that the changes  that occurred  were  not its fault,  so it didnt  need  to 
update  the compensatory  interest.  If it had dealt  with Mrs Ds change  of name  and 
reissued  the cheque  within  a few weeks  after Mrs D returned  it, then that would  not 
have  been  an issue  and reissuing  the cheque  for the same  amount  would  not have  
been  problematic.
However,  the fact that Barclays  failed  to contact  the Insolvency  Service  before  ever 
sending  out its offer and original  cheque  is Barclays  fault.  If it had undertaken  full and 
proper  checks  this situation,  after a cheque  had been  issued  to Mrs D, would  never  have  occurred.  So I think  Barclays  is responsible  for the delays  in Mrs D actually  
receiving  her payment  because  of the actions  taken  by Barclays  relating  to the 
Insolvency  Service.
Also,  the delays  after the Insolvency  Service  returned  the payment  and not 
proactively  contacting  Mrs D to update  her and arrange  a new payment,  also lie with 
Barclays.
I think  it is very regrettable  that Barclays  has not agreed  to update  the interest  which  
is the fair, and required,  approach,  especially  as much  of the delay  was actually  
caused  by Barclays  making  errors  by not identifying  any need  for contacting  or 
involvement  of the Insolvency  Service  much  earlier  in dealing  with the complaint.  This 
has caused  a great  deal of delay,  trouble  and upset  to Mrs D. And in reality,  the 
additional  compensatory  interest  due it is likely  to only be a small  amount.
I note that Barclays  has agreed  to pay £50.00  to Mrs D for the distress  and 
inconvenience  caused  during  the investigation  of her complaint  about  payment  of the 
compensation.  But I dont  think  this is adequate,  taking  into account  the basic  reason  
for much  of the delay  to the payment  was Barclays  original  errors  in dealing  with 
Mrs Ds complaint  and not making  adequate  checks  about  insolvency  or bankruptcy.  
The delay  has also been  compounded  by Barclays  lack of action  after receiving  the 
returned  payment  from the Insolvency  Service.  
It is also unclear  why the payment  originally  offered  and sent to Mrs D, and also the 
Insolvency  Service,  was some  £0.13p  less than when  the payment  was made  in July 
2020  direct  to Mrs Ds account.  
Putting things right
Taking  all these  factors  into account  Barclays  must  recalculate  the compensatory  
interest  up to July 2020.  It must  then pay Mrs D the additional  amount  of 
compensatory  interest  due for the period  between  the date of its original  calculation  
and the date it made  the bank  transfer  to her account.
In addition,  I think  that Barclays  should  pay a total of £100.00  in compensation  for the 
errors  its made  in addition  to the delays  that have  occurred.  I understand  £50.00may  
have  already  been  paid,  and if so, then only the further  £50.00  needs  to be paid.   
My final decision
  For the reasons I have set out above, Im directing that Barclays Bank UK Plc must 
recalculate the compensatory interest due up to July 2020 and pay the additional 
compensatory interest calculated for the additional months to Mrs D.
In addition, a total of £100.00 for the trouble and upset caused by the errors and delays 
should be paid by Barclays Bank UK Plc to Mrs D. If £50.00 has already been paid, a further 
£50.00 payment must be made. If nothing has yet been paid, then £100 should be paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman