DRN-3916006
The complaint
Mr G and Ms L complain about their mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
They complain it has refused to offer them a new, lower, interest rate.
What happened
Mr G and Ms L took out their mortgage with Kensington in 2007, borrowing around £270,000 
on interest only terms. They took an initial fixed rate of 6.54% over three years, after which 
their mortgage reverted to Kensingtons standard variable rate (SVR) plus 1.25%. The 
mortgage offer said that the terms of the mortgage reflected past financial difficulty.
Mr G and Ms L say theyve been asking Kensington for a new interest rate off and on ever 
since 2010, but it has always refused to offer them a new rate.
Mr G and Ms L brought their complaint to us. They said they were unhappy with how 
Kensington had treated them and that it wouldnt offer them a lower interest rate. They 
believe it is profiteering from them  had it offered them lower rates, they would have been 
able to pay more to reduce the capital and wouldnt be approaching the end of the term with 
such a high balance.
Kensington didnt think it had treated them unfairly, and said Mr G and Ms L werent eligible 
for a new interest rate. However, it had separately reviewed historic arrears fees applied to 
their mortgage account but not yet paid, and offered to remove £550 of fees, as well as pay 
£250 compensation.
Our investigator said Kensington didnt offer new interest rates to any customers until 2017. 
But once it did so, it wasnt fair to refuse a rate to Mr G and Ms L. So it should re-work their 
mortgage as if it had offered one to them. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint 
came to me for a decision to be made.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage was taken out in 2007. Under the terms and conditions 
and the mortgage offer, they had a fixed rate until 2010, after which the mortgage 
would revert to the SVR with a premium of 1.25%.
The mortgage offer says that its terms reflected past financial difficulty  this is what 
was, at the time, known as a sub-prime mortgage. I dont have the details of Mr G 
and Ms Ls circumstances at the time, but this generally means that a borrower has 
experienced problems with either a previous mortgage or with unsecured credit 
which would make it difficult for them to get a more mainstream mortgage. As theres 
additional risk to a lender in granting a mortgage in such circumstances, its not 
unreasonable that the resulting mortgage is more expensive  reflecting that extra 
risk. Its for those reasons that the mortgage reverted not just to the SVR, but to the 
SVR plus a premium of 1.25%.
Mr G and Ms L have said that since they became subject to the SVR in 2010, theyve 
noted that the rate they have been paying is much higher than the Bank of England 
base rate than the difference between base rate and the SVR when they took the 
mortgage out in 2007. And they question whether that was fair. 
The mortgage terms and conditions make clear that the SVR is not linked to the Bank 
of England base rate. And mortgage lenders costs are not generally linked to base 
rate either. So the Bank of England base rate is not a factor in the level of interest 
Mr G and Ms L were charged.
The mortgage terms and conditions say that the SVR is a variable rate, which doesnt 
directly track any external rate. But they also say that while the rate can vary, it will 
never be more than 3% above or less than 1% above the LIBOR rate  and so, with 
the addition of the 1.25% premium, Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage will never be more 
than 4.25% above LIBOR, and never be less than 2.25% above LIBOR . And I can 
see from the history of the mortgage that in fact the interest rate has in fact has 
stayed within that range.
So the mortgage offer says that the mortgage would revert to the SVR plus 1.25% 
from 2010, and this in fact happened. And the SVR has stayed within the range  
relative to LIBOR  set out in the terms and conditions. Neither the mortgage offer 
nor the mortgage terms and conditions say that Kensington has to make another 
fixed rate available after the initial one ended, or that it has to offer Mr G and Ms L 
any rate other than the SVR plus premium.
This means that their mortgage has operated as the contract says it would, on the 
terms they agreed to when they borrowed the funds in 2007. 
And theres nothing beyond the mortgage terms which says Kensington has to offer 
new rates either  theres no law, or rule of mortgage regulation, which says that a 
lender has to offer new rates to existing customers.
Another ombudsman has said that we can only consider the fairness of interest 
charged since 2012, and I agree with her conclusions about that.
From 2012 onwards, until 2017, Kensington did not offer new rates to any existing 
customers. As Ive said, it was not obliged to do so. Mr G and Ms L were not 
therefore being treated any differently to any other Kensington customer. Their 
mortgage was operating as it should have done according to its terms and 
conditions. And therefore I dont think Kensington treated them unfairly in the interest 
it charged them in this period.
From 2017 onwards, however, Kensington did start to offer new interest rates to 
some customers. But it continued to refuse to offer one to Mr G and Ms L  and so I 
need to think about whether that was fair.
Even where it does offer new rates to existing customers, theres no obligation on a 
lender to pro-actively contact its customers and invite them to apply for a rate  its 
up to customers to make an application.
Theres a note in Kensingtons records of a conversation on 7 December 2017 in 
which Mr G asked for a new interest rate. He was told he needed to speak to another 
department, and that department would call him back. When it didnt, Mr G called in 
again in early January 2018. He was told that no new rates were available, and that 
he should seek independent financial advice to discuss his options.This is the first time after Kensington started to offer rate switches that Mr G and 
Ms L asked about a new rate. And so I will consider whether it approached their 
request fairly at that time.
Kensingtons policy on rate switches
Before 2017, Kensington did not offer new interest rates to existing customers. An 
existing customer whose introductory rate had expired and wanted a new rate would 
either have to move lender, or would have to re-apply to Kensington as a new 
customer for a new mortgage.
From 2017, however, Kensington began to offer new interest rates to some existing 
customers. It has explained to us that its criteria for offering new rates are that: 
At the point at which the mortgage was taken out, the customer would have 
passed the affordability and regulatory requirements in place now; 
The customers credit risk is in line with Kensingtons current credit risk 
appetite;
There is no history of arrears on the mortgage;
The original mortgage lending was by Kensington  not another lender with 
the mortgage later moving to Kensington; 
The mortgage was taken out no earlier than 1 January 2010.
Kensington has explained that its business model relies on securitisation. This is a 
relatively common model in the mortgage industry. In essence, once it has lent a 
mortgage and is entitled to receive the repayments, Kensington sells the beneficial 
interest (the benefit of the repayments) to a third party in order to fund further lending 
to other customers. Loans are not securitised individually, but packaged into groups 
called special purpose vehicles.
Under this model, Kensington remains the owner of the mortgage, remains the lender 
of record, and continues to be the firm that the borrower deals with. But once it has 
collected the payments, it passes the benefit of them on to the investor which bought 
the vehicle including that loan.
Kensington has explained that under the terms of its agreements with the investors 
which bought the securitisation vehicles, it cannot make changes to existing 
mortgages  such as offering new interest rates. It may be able to offer new rates 
when securitisations expire and are re-financed onto terms that do allow variations to 
the mortgages.
And it may be able to offer a new rate if a loan meets the current criteria that 
investors will accept as part of a securitisation vehicle  which explains the criteria 
around passing current requirements even on loans that were taken out some time 
before. It can offer a rate if it can extract a loan from a securitisation and then re-
securitise it with a new interest rate  but only if the loan would be acceptable to a 
new securitisation vehicle. Loans taken out before 2010, and loans taken out which, 
at the time, did not meet regulatory requirements now in place do not meet that 
standard.
Such customers include those whose loans were underwritten based on the standards which applied before the financial crisis of 2007/8  including customers 
who self-certified their income, who did not have to show that they had a repayment 
strategy for an interest only mortgage, and so on.
Because these customers cannot be re-securitised, they are not eligible for a new 
interest rate. And because Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage was taken out before 2010 
and is on interest only terms, it falls into this category.
Ive set out Kensingtons policy, and the rationale for it, at some length above 
because its important context for the actions it took in this case. However, its 
important to note that Ill be focussing on whether Kensington treated Mr G and Ms L 
fairly in their individual circumstances  not on whether its policies and procedures 
are fair more broadly.
Regulatory considerations
In deciding whether Kensington treated Mr G and Ms L fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances, I also need to take into account the regulators rules and guidance, to 
be found in the MCOB section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
In my view, of particular importance in this case are the provisions to be found in 
section 11 of MCOB, especially MCOB 11.8.1 E. The suffix E denotes an evidential 
provision not a rule (suffixed R).
MCOB 11.8.1 E says
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan or vary the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or 
home purchase plan with the existing mortgage lender or home 
purchase provider; or 
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan with a new mortgage lender or home purchase provider; 
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less 
favourably than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. To 
do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 
(customers interests).
Principle 6 says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
As Ive noted, MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision  not a rule  but it says that 
treatment of the kind set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness. In some 
situations, therefore, it also may not show unfairness  much will depend on the 
individual circumstances.
Further relevant provisions include MCOB 11.6.3 R  which says that a lender need 
not carry out an affordability assessment when varying an existing mortgage or replacing it with
a new one, provided there is no further borrowing or other change to the contract 
material to affordability. And MCOB 11.7.3 R says that a lender need not carry out an 
assessment of interest only repayment strategy when varying an existing mortgage 
or replacing it with a new one, provided the change is otherwise in the borrowers 
best interests.
There are therefore two ways Kensington could have given effect to their request for 
a new rate  either by a rate switch varying their existing mortgage, or by offering a 
new mortgage to replace the old one. But neither of these options were actually 
made available to Mr G and Ms L, and so Ill consider whether that was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Re-mortgaging rather than a rate switch
Kensington has explained that, as an alternative to a rate switch, Mr G and Ms L 
could have applied  via a broker  for a new mortgage with Kensington to replace 
this one. But in order to successfully do this, according to its policy at the time, Mr G 
and Ms L would have to pass full new borrower lending criteria  including an 
affordability assessment and an assessment of interest only repayment strategy.
Mr G and Ms L have explained that theyve tried to move their mortgage elsewhere, 
without success. While they might be able to pass a modified affordability 
assessment aimed at mortgage prisoners, they cant take advantage of that  
because Kensington is not a closed book lender and therefore they dont come within 
the scope of these provisions. And they havent been able to pass a full unmodified 
affordability assessment.
Because of that, and because they have an interest only mortgage with no 
repayment strategy, I think that had they applied to Kensington for a new mortgage to 
replace this one, and had Kensington applied full new borrower criteria to them, its 
likely it also would have refused their application. And therefore access to a new 
interest rate by this route would not have been available to them.
However, there is provision in the mortgage rules for Kensington to set aside the 
need for both an affordability assessment and an interest only repayment strategy 
assessment, where a new mortgage is taken to replace an old one with the same 
lender and with no further borrowing. That would have been the case here.
While these rules do not require a lender to set aside these assessments, they 
enable to it to do so. And in circumstances like this, I think it would have been fair 
and reasonable for Kensington to do so.
I say that bearing in mind the regulators guidance that it does not consider an 
affordability assessment should be needed for a rate switch  and while this would 
have been a re-mortgage, the only purpose for it would have been to take a new rate 
with the same lender. Reducing their monthly payments via a new rate would clearly 
have been in Mr G and Ms Ls best interests. And refusing to use these rules would 
have meant that Kensington required Mr G and Ms L to remain on the higher SVR 
plus premium they were paying.
Kensington has said that it didnt give advice at this time, so Mr G and Ms L would 
have needed to take advice from a mortgage broker. But that is not incompatible with 
offering them a re-mortgage under this route. The rules allowing the setting aside of affordability and interest only assessments do not require advice direct from the 
lender (or at all), and could have been given effect via a broker application. And in 
any case, a re-mortgage without further borrowing to facilitate a rate switch is 
permitted on an execution only (that is, non-advised) basis under MCOB 4.8A.10 R 
(2)  so Kensington could also have offered this option directly without needing to 
give advice.
When Mr G and Ms L asked Kensington about a rate switch in December 2017, 
therefore, it could have told them that they could access a new interest rate (if 
necessary, via a broker) by applying for a re-mortgage under which Kensington 
would set aside the need for an affordability assessment or an assessment of interest 
only repayment strategy.
Taking this route would have created a new mortgage, which would have avoided the 
issues caused by varying an existing securitised mortgage I refer to below. But 
Kensington did not make this possibility available to them. In my view, if a rate switch 
wasnt available to Mr G and Ms L, it wasnt fair and reasonable that this alternative 
wasnt offered to them instead.
A rate switch rather than re-mortgaging
By December 2017, Kensington was offering rates to some existing borrowers who 
met its eligibility criteria. But Mr G and Ms L did not meet its criteria, and it did not 
make a new rate available to them via this route.
So the question I have to consider is whether, in offering rates to other customers but 
not to Mr G and Ms L, Kensington acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances.
Kensington has explained that they were not eligible for a rate, under its eligibility 
criteria, because their mortgage was taken out before 2010, when lending standards 
were very different to today. As a result, their mortgage no longer meets 
Kensingtons current risk appetite  in part because of difficulties in re-securitising it 
based on current investor risk appetite.
And, as Ive said this was a sub-prime (based on past financial difficulty) mortgage. 
So I agree that this mortgage, while acceptable in 2007, would not be lent today.
However, Im not persuaded thats a fair basis on which to refuse Mr G and Ms L a 
new rate in 2017, ten years after their mortgage was taken out.
In saying that, Ive taken into account MCOB 11.8.1 E, which Ive quoted above. In 
my view, whats relevant for the purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 
11.8.1 E are Mr G and Ms Ls characteristics at the time of their attempted 
application in 2017  not their characteristics as they were ten years earlier.
An assessment of the fairness of Mr G and Ms Ls treatment in comparison to the 
treatment of other borrowers is to be based on their situation at the time of the 
assessment. I understand Kensington considers the circumstances in which the 
mortgage was taken out to be relevant to its business model of securitisation. That 
may well be the case  but, as I explain below, thats not relevant to the question of 
whether it treated Mr G and Ms L fairly in their particular circumstances.
I also note that there is no evidence from the transaction history provided by 
Kensington that this mortgage has ever been in significant arrears. There are no arrears at all since 2010.
Before that date, there were sporadic and occasional arrears  but as Kensington 
itself has said, that was because Mr G and Ms L didnt always make payment by the 
due date, rather than failing to make payment at all. Its refunded arrears fees on that 
basis. Given the passage of time and the nature of the historic arrears, therefore, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to use this as a basis to refuse a new interest rate.
Because no application was actually made in December 2017 / January 2018, there 
was no wider credit risk assessment  and so we dont know whether or not Mr G 
and Ms L would have passed it. Though Im not aware of any specific issues that 
make it likely they wouldnt
have done  and from what Kensington has said, this is a check that theyve not 
been made bankrupt or entered an IVA rather than a more detailed credit check.
Taking into account Kensingtons rate switch criteria, then, I think Mr G and Ms Ls 
mortgage met some of them in January 2018. The mortgage was not in arrears, and 
the nature of the arrears over seven years earlier was not such as to fairly be used 
as a bar to a rate switch. And Ive no current basis for concluding they would have 
failed a credit risk assessment.
Therefore, based on their circumstances and the circumstances of their mortgage at 
the time, I think its fair to say Mr G and Ms L met that part of the criteria based on 
their circumstances at the time.
It seems that the reason Kensington says no new rate was available to them was 
because they did not meet the rest of its criteria, relating to when their mortgage was 
taken out. In particular, that their mortgage was taken out before 2010 on a sub-
prime basis.
But Im not persuaded that the circumstances in which Mr G and Ms L took out their 
mortgage, many years ago, are relevant to the fairness of how they were treated in 
January 2018.
Ive referred above to MCOB 11.8.1 E, which I think is relevant in this situation. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision  not a rule  but it says that treatment of 
the kind set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness. Though equally it may 
not, depending on the circumstances.
The provision says that where a borrower either cant vary their mortgage with an 
existing lender, or cant move their mortgage to another lender, it may be unfair for 
their existing lender to treat them less favourably (for example, by offering less 
favourable interest rates) than it would treat other customers with similar 
characteristics.
In my view, this provision is aimed at the unfairness that might result where a 
borrower is unable to move their mortgage and shop around for a better deal  
having no choice but to remain with their existing lender, and being treated less 
favourably than other customers who are otherwise similar to them.
Mr G and Ms L have provided evidence that theyve been unable to move their 
mortgage to another lender, despite seeking advice. That brings them within the 
ambit of MCOB 11.8.1 E.Kensington would offer rates to other customers in January 2018  but not Mr G and 
Ms L. Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr G and Ms L ought fairly to be 
considered as having satisfied Kensingtons criteria about the current position of their 
mortgage  but that it didnt consider them eligible for a rate switch because of how 
their mortgage originated.
Im not persuaded  taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E  that this was fair. MCOB 
11.8.1 E refers to the treatment of borrowers with similar characteristics. In my view, 
whats relevant to this exercise is Mr G and Ms Ls characteristics at the time they 
asked for a rate  not their characteristics as they might have been ten years earlier 
when the mortgage was taken out.
Im not persuaded the date their loan was taken out, or the nature of the mortgage 
they applied for, was any longer relevant at the time they made their application. 
What was relevant were their circumstances at the time of their application. In my 
view, it is fair and reasonable to regard their current circumstances as the 
characteristics which are relevant for the purposes of the comparison in MCOB 
11.8.1 E, and therefore fair and reasonable to consider whether Mr G and Ms L were 
treated less favourably than other customers to whom they were similar at that time.
It follows that Mr G and Ms L were treated differently  less favourably, by being 
offered less favourable interest rates  than other customers with similar 
characteristics to them. They were unable to move their mortgage to a new lender or 
shop around for a better deal; they had no option but to remain with Kensington 
regardless of what decisions it made; and by refusing them a rate that it would offer 
to other, similar, customers Kensington didnt treat them fairly.
What ought Kensington, acting fairly, to have done?
In my view, acting fairly, Kensington ought to have enquired into their circumstances 
at the time they asked for a rate in December 2017 and January 2018. Having 
learned that they were unable to move their mortgage to another lender it then ought, 
acting fairly, to have either recognised that MCOB 11.8.1 E was relevant to their 
situation and ensured they were offered a rate no less favourable than other, similar, 
customers  or offered to consider a re mortgage without affordability or repayment 
strategy assessment.
Kensington says that the reason for its rate switch criteria is that it has securitised its 
mortgages. Different groups of mortgages are in different securitisation vehicles. And 
the terms of its agreements with those vehicles limit what it can offer existing 
customers  it cannot vary the terms of a mortgage while securitised, and cannot 
re-securitise the mortgage of a customer which does not meet the risk appetite of its 
investors.
Ive taken that into account. I recognise the constraints under which Kensington 
operates. And I understand that securitisation is a recognised and relatively common 
business model within the mortgage market  and not inherently unfair.
However, Im not persuaded that this explanation as to why Kensington considers 
them ineligible for a new rate changes my conclusion that Mr G and Ms L were not 
treated fairly when it refused to consider a rate.
MCOB 11.8.1 E refers to customers of a firm. In my view, this makes it clear that the 
comparison envisaged is to be done across all the customers of the firm  
Kensington  not sub-sets of those customers (subject to them having similar characteristics). Whether or not their loan had been securitised, Kensington 
remained Mr G and Ms Ls lender and it remained the firm which owed them 
obligations of fair treatment  including treatment of the sort envisaged in MCOB 
11.8.1 E.
The mere fact of being a securitised customer, or a customer securitised in one 
vehicle rather than another, is not of itself a characteristic of difference that can in 
and of itself justify different treatment. If that were treated in and of itself as a different 
characteristic, it would prevent there being a comparison between customers of the 
firm merely because of the way the firm has dealt with them internally, since 
customers in different vehicles would be treated as not having similar characteristics 
simply because the lender has chosen to separate them. That would seem to me to 
defeat the purpose of 11.8.1 E.
I also think its clear from the wording of MCOB 11.8.1 E that what matters is whether 
Mr G and Ms L, as individual mortgage customers, had similar characteristics to 
other individual customers of Kensington  taken as a whole. And if they have similar 
characteristics to those other customers, but are being treated less favourably than 
those other customers, that may tend to show a breach of Principle 6 and unfair 
treatment in their individual case.
I therefore do not think that the mere fact that the mortgage of one customer but not 
another has been securitised, or securitised in a different way or different vehicle, 
can of itself amount to a characteristic of either customer. Securitisation is a 
unilateral step taken in relation to an existing borrowers loan by a lender for the 
lenders prudential and commercial purposes, not a characteristic of the borrower 
themselves (as loan to value or credit score might be).
And in my view the existence of contractual terms agreed between Kensington and a 
third party by which Kensington has chosen to constrain its options for managing 
Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage is also not a relevant consideration in deciding what are 
the characteristics of Mr G and Ms L and their mortgage. Nor is it relevant to 
considering whether Kensingtons treatment of them was fair  if Kensington has 
obligations to treat them fairly, those obligations cannot be dis-applied because of an 
agreement Kensington has separately entered into with a third party which does not 
change its relationship with or obligations to Mr G and Ms L.
In other words securitisation is something done to the borrower by the lender rather 
than a characteristic of the borrower. The lenders decision to securitise might be 
driven in part by its perception of the characteristics of the borrower, or at least the 
average characteristics of the part of the lenders business the borrower sits within. 
But if that is the case, it is those characteristics that may be relevant, not the 
securitisation itself. It is therefore necessary to identify what Mr G and Ms Ls 
characteristics were, and the extent to which they have similar characteristics to 
other customers of Kensington. Ive set out above my analysis of that, and why I 
consider that Mr G and Ms L had similar characteristics to other customers who 
would have been eligible for a rate switch in January 2018. 
I recognise that the fact of the securitisation made it more difficult for Kensington to 
offer Mr G and Ms L a new rate. But that is a choice Kensington made when it 
decided to securitise their mortgage. Doing so does not lessen Kensingtons 
obligations in fairness to them. To the extent this is relevant to their situation at all, it 
is relevant as a practical matter which might impact on the options for putting things 
right. It is not relevant to whether Kensingtons treatment of them was fair and 
reasonable or not.Acting fairly and reasonably, therefore, in my view what Kensington ought to have 
done in January 2018 was to have looked at Mr G and Ms L and their circumstances 
and considered whether the application of its rate switch criteria, resulting in the 
refusal of a new rate, would have brought them within the scope of MCOB 11.8.1 E. 
Acting fairly and reasonably, it would have concluded that it did  since they could 
not move to another lender, could not vary their mortgage with Kensington, and were 
potentially being offered less favourable rates than other customers with similar 
characteristics.
Ive noted that MCOB 11.81 E is an evidential provision tending to show unfairness  
which means that there may be situations in which treatment of the sort described in 
the provision may nevertheless not result in unfairness too. But in this case, where 
Mr G and Ms L were unable to move their mortgage, unable to shop around for a 
better deal, and left with no choice but to remain with Kensington whatever 
happened, it was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to refuse to 
consider their request for a new interest rate. Kensington could have offered Mr G 
and Ms L a new rate on their existing mortgage. Or if it felt it could not do that 
because of the securitisation, it could have offered them a re-mortgage onto a new 
rate using MCOB 11.6.3 R and 11.7.3 R. But it did neither of those things.
In my view, in simply applying its policy without considering these broader issues and 
whether they resulted in unfairness in Mr G and Ms Ls specific circumstances, 
Kensington did not act fairly and reasonably.
Conclusion
When Mr G and Ms L asked Kensington for a new rate in December 2017 and 
January 2018, it told them there were no rates available to them. But  as Ive found 
 it did make rates available to other customers with, at that time, similar 
characteristics to them. As Mr G and Ms L were also unable to shop around for a 
better deal by moving their mortgage to another lender, that left them with no option 
other than to remain on their existing reversion rate. As a result, they were treated 
less favourably than other customers with similar characteristics, and I dont think 
that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Acting fairly, I think Kensington ought to have looked at their situation at the time and 
understood they had no other options and that refusing them a new rate would leave 
them in a less favourable position than other customers with, at the time, similar 
characteristics.
Had it done that, it could have offered them a new rate by means of a rate switch, of 
the sort offered to other existing customers. Kensington has explained that this might 
have caused it practical difficulties because of its agreement with the securitisation 
vehicle not to change the interest rate. Ive explained why I dont think thats a 
relevant consideration in deciding whether Mr G and Ms L were treated fairly. But in 
any case, Kensington could have avoided this issue by offering Mr G and Ms L a new 
mortgage to replace the old one in any event  which would therefore have repaid 
the securitised mortgage without the need to vary its interest rate.
Either of these options would have resulted in fair treatment of Mr G and Ms L at this 
time, and Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this complaint its fair 
and reasonable to say that is what Kensington ought to have done.
Putting things rightIn order to put matters right, therefore, Kensington should put Mr G and Ms L back in 
the position they would have been in had it offered them a new interest rate when 
they asked about it in December 2017. Had Kensington acted on their request at this 
time, a new rate could have been in place within a few weeks. And so Kensington 
should re-work their mortgage as if a new interest rate had been in place from 1 
February 2018.
When it replies to my provisional decision, Kensington should provide me with a list 
of the rates it made available to existing customers taking a new interest rate in 
December 2017, and should explain which of them it believes Mr G and Ms Ls loan 
to value qualified them for at that time. I will then select an appropriate rate from that 
list.
On the assumption that Kensington offered two, three and five year fixed rates to 
existing customers at this time (as is standard), a fixed rate from 1 February 2018 
would expire in February 2020, 2021 or 2023. As the term of Mr G and Ms Ls 
mortgage came to an end in 2022, they would not therefore have been eligible for a 
five year rate in 2018 (because an interest rate term cannot exceed the term of the 
mortgage itself).
They also would not have been eligible to take a new rate from February 2021  
following a three year rate in 2018  for the same reason. But if Kensington offered 
two year rates in 2018, and also did so in 2020, Mr G and Ms L may have been able 
to take a second two year rate from February 2020.
Therefore, if the rate list for December 2017 includes two year rates, Kensington 
should also provide me with the list of rates available for existing customers in 
February 2020, again identifying which loan to value band it believes they fell into at 
that time.
If, however, there is no rate available on the expiry of the rate that should have been 
offered in December 2017 then thereafter the mortgage would have reverted to the 
reversion rate for that product, rather than current reversion rate of SVR plus 
premium.
Kensington will need to rework Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage, taking into account the 
rates I tell it to put in place in due course. That will result in them having made 
overpayments in the months since February 2018.
Ordinarily, I would then offer Mr G and Ms L the choice of having the overpayments 
refunded to them, or used to reduce the mortgage balance. However, as in this case 
the mortgage term has now come to an end, I think its fair for Kensington to use the 
overpayments to reduce the balance each month, with the compounding effect of 
reducing the consequent interest charged in subsequent months reducing the 
balance further. This will result in Mr G and Ms L having a lower capital balance to 
repay.
Now that the term has ended, Mr G and Ms L will need to discuss with Kensington 
their plans for repaying the capital. Kensington should look at their circumstances 
fairly and sympathetically, offering reasonable forbearance where appropriate, so 
that agreement can be reached if possible.
Separately, during the life of this complaint, Kensington has offered to refund historic 
arrears fees and pay £250 compensation. Im satisfied thats fair. But in addition to 
that, I think it should offer further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by unfairly refusing a new rate in December 2017 / January 2018, leading to 
Mr G and Ms L having to make higher mortgage payments than they otherwise would 
since then. While theres no evidence that caused immediate financial hardship, or 
that Mr G and Ms L were unable to make those payments, I do think this caused 
them considerable upset. In the circumstances, I think Kensington should pay them a 
further £400 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Kensington did not accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
The regulator said that MCOB 11.8.1 E was not compulsory, and it is for lenders to 
make lending decisions1.
When considering a request for a product switch, Kensington applies its criteria. It 
offered rates to all customers who met its criteria  but Mr G and Ms L didnt meet 
them.
Since it offers rates to all customers who meet the criteria, and Mr G and Ms L didnt 
meet the criteria, it cant reasonably be said that they have similar characteristics to 
those who do. It is a requirement under Kensingtons lending criteria that to access a 
product switch the mortgage must have completed in 2010 or later  and Mr G and 
Ms Ls mortgage didnt. 
Kensington has developed an offering for customers not eligible for a standard 
product switch  which it calls its mortgage prisoners regime. It has negotiated with 
the securitisation vehicles to offer a variable rate to such customers. But Mr G and 
Ms L didnt qualify for that either because of the limited time left on their mortgage 
term. And in any case at the time their existing mortgage rate was lower than the 
mortgage prisoner variable rate, so it wouldnt have benefitted them.
My decision is not in accordance with our rules and creates new regulatory 
obligations that dont currently exist, and is in conflict with Kensingtons prudential 
obligations. 
In any case, Mr G and Ms L wouldnt have been eligible for a product switch at the 
time, because their loan to value was too high.
Mr G and Ms L also replied. They said that an important consequence of Kensingtons 
refusal to offer new rates was that they were unable to make regular overpayments to 
reduce the balance. And they said Kensington was unwilling to consider extending the term 
to give them more time to repay the capital balance. They want Kensington to convert the 
mortgage to one on repayment terms, over a term of 15 years from 2018. 
Mr G and Ms L also said that they had approached another lender to re-mortgage, and that 
lender was willing to offer them a new loan using the modified assessment allowed for in the 
mortgage rules  if Kensington issued them a mortgage prisoner letter. But they said 
Kensington refused to do so. This prevented them re-mortgaging on better terms with 
another lender.  
Mr G and Ms L were concerned that Kensington has very recently told them it is moving their 
mortgage to another lender.
1 It cited para 60 of Mortgage Market Review: Feedback on CP11/31 and final rules, PS12/16, 
Financial Conduct AuthorityI asked Mr G and Ms L for further evidence about their propertys value to investigate what 
their loan to value was in 2017, and they also provided that evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account  as required by our rules  relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. But while I take those 
matters into account, ultimately I am deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Ive set out in detail in my provisional decision why I think this complaint should be upheld. 
Ive reproduced the relevant sections above so I wont repeat them here. Having 
reconsidered matters carefully, and taken into account what Kensington has said in reply, I 
havent changed my mind either about the fair outcome to this complaint or my reasons for 
reaching it.
Kensington pointed to PS12/16. The passage it cited comes in a section dealing with the 
regulators assessment of the responses to its consultation on the introduction of new rules. 
The passage Kensington quoted says:
We do not believe it is appropriate to make these transitional arrangements 
compulsory. Ultimately, it is for lenders to make lending decisions, and there may be 
sound reasons for not proceeding with individual transactions.
Kensington says this means that MCOB 11.8.1 E is not compulsory. But placed in its wider 
context I dont think this is what the relevant passage says.
In the first place, this section refers to the transitional arrangements. The transitional 
arrangements are to be found in MCOB 11.7, not MCOB 11.8.1. That is the chapter title of 
MCOB 11.7.
Secondly, the full section says
The changes we are making to the application of the affordability requirements for 
contract variations, as set out in Chapter 2, along with the revised transitional 
arrangements, will make it easier for lenders to help existing borrowers. 
We will continue to expect lenders to treat their customers fairly, in according with 
Principle 6 (treating customers fairly). In response to feedback, we are 
strengthening the protection for existing borrowers, by changing the guidance to an 
evidential provision (MCOB 11.8.1E). Under this provision, if the existing lender takes 
advantage of a trapped borrower or treats them any less favourably than other 
customers with similar characteristics  for example, by offering less favourable 
interest rates or other terms  then this may be relied on as tending to show 
contravention of Principle 6. 
As we explain further in the introduction, we are implementing this provision with 
immediate effect. 
We do not believe that it is appropriate to make these transitional arrangements 
compulsory. Ultimately, it is for lenders to make lending decisions, and there may be sound reasons for not proceeding with individual transactions.
In context, therefore, this passage is responding to concerns expressed in the consultation 
that making 11.7 non-compulsory might lead to consumer detriment for borrowers unable to 
switch away from their existing lender. The regulator responded to this by stating that a 
strengthened 11.8.1 will nevertheless create an expectation of fair treatment. I dont 
therefore think this passage says what Kensington says it does, or that it means that 
Kensington is not required to take account of MCOB 11.8.1 E. I think the regulators intention 
is that a lender should have regard to MCOB 11.8.1 E in dealing with customers unable to 
move elsewhere, and that treatment of the kind outlined in the provision may tend to show 
unfairness  as indeed the provision itself says. It is therefore a relevant consideration for 
me to take into account in this case.
I also referred to MCOB 11.6.3 R and 11.7.3 R in my provisional decision. These are rules 
allowing a lender to set aside an affordability assessment and an assessment of interest only 
repayment strategy when varying an existing mortgage or replacing it with a new one. 
MCOB 11.7.3 R is part of the transitional provisions. 
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that these rules are not compulsory, in the sense 
that they do not oblige a lender to set aside these assessments. But they enable it to do so. 
Under these rules, Kensington could either vary Mr G and Ms Ls existing mortgage  for 
example by a product switch  or replace it with a new one either without carrying out these 
assessments or by carrying them out but not using any failure to prevent the change. In my 
view, its no answer to say that because Kensington is not obliged always to do something, 
not doing so can never be unfair. These provisions are all relevant considerations, and in my 
view its open to me to find that a decision by Kensington not to follow a course that was 
open to it  even it was not required to follow it  resulted in unfairness in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
For those reasons, I dont agree with Kensington that MCOB 11.8.1 E is not something 
Kensington had to have regard to in thinking about whether its decision to refuse Mr G and 
Ms L a rate was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, it is a relevant 
matter and something that Kensington ought to have considered.
In my provisional decision, I said that if Kensington had given consideration to MCOB 11.8.1 
E then, acting fairly, it would have understood that:
Mr G and Ms L were unable to move to another lender or shop around for a better 
deal;
Mr G and Ms L were being refused a rate by Kensington because of when their 
mortgage was taken out  other than that (subject to what I say below about loan to 
value) they met all Kensingtons product switch criteria.
In those circumstances, I think its a reasonable conclusion that  with the exception of when 
their mortgage was taken out  they shared similar characteristics to a borrower who did 
meet Kensingtons product switch criteria. I dont think its in dispute that (subject to loan to 
value, discussed below), it was only the date of origin of their mortgage which meant they 
didnt meet the product switch criteria.
The application of the date of origin criterion was the reason Mr G and Ms L were refused a 
product switch. It was the reason they were on less favourable rates compared to borrowers 
who  as Mr G and Ms L also did  met the remaining criteria. 
And therefore the crucial question is whether date of origin is a relevant matter to be taken into account in determining whether Mr G and Ms L had similar characteristics to borrowers 
who would be offered a rate  or not.
I explained in my provisional decision that in my view the circumstances in which a mortgage 
was taken out many years before are not relevant to that question. Much can change in the 
meantime. Whats relevant, in my view, are Mr G and Ms Ls circumstances  their 
characteristics  as at the time they made their application, not their circumstances as they 
were many years before. And having considered what Kensington has said in reply to my 
provisional decision, I havent changed my mind about that. 
Nor do I think that the fact that Kensington has chosen to securitise their mortgage, or do so 
on particular terms, is relevant. Its entitled to operate its business in that way. But there may 
be circumstances  and I think this is one  where a firms legitimate decisions to operate its 
business in a particular way nevertheless produce an unfair result in the particular 
circumstances of an individual customer. 
And for the same reasons I dont think Kensingtons prudential obligations are a relevant 
matter for me to consider. I recognise it has those obligations. But I am not concerned with 
those obligations; I am concerned with what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Its a matter for Kensington to find a way to manage both its prudential 
obligations and its obligations of fairness to Mr G and Ms L.
Im therefore satisfied that it wasnt fair for Kensington to refuse a product switch based on 
when the mortgage was taken out. Leaving that aside, Mr G and Ms L passed Kensingtons 
eligibility criteria. Insofar as relevant, therefore, they had similar characteristics to borrowers 
who would have been offered a product switch. And in refusing them a product switch, 
Kensington offered them less favourable rates than other borrowers with similar 
characteristics. Im satisfied that wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
That being the case, I dont need to comment further on Kensingtons mortgage prisoner 
product offer or why it wasnt made available to Mr G and Ms L. If, as Ive found in fairness it 
should have done, Kensington had offered Mr G and Ms L a product switch it would not have 
been relevant to their circumstances in any case.
Putting things right
Kensington has said that even if I remain of the view that MCOB 11.8.1 E is relevant and 
that Mr G and Ms L werent treated fairly as a result, they wouldnt have been offered a rate 
switch in any case because of their loan to value.
Kensington has provided me with a copy of the mortgage valuation from when the mortgage 
was taken out in 2006. It values the property at £300,000. Kensington says that using an 
industry standard property price indexing tool, that means that in December 2017 the loan to 
value on Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage was 91.3%. At this time, it did not offer product switches 
above a loan to value of 85%, and so Mr G and Ms L werent eligible.
I put this to Mr G and Ms L, and asked them for any evidence of the propertys value. 
Theyve provided me with evidence that they had substantial works carried out in 2014 which 
they believe would have increased the property value. And theyve also provided me with a 
recent estate agents appraisal. Using the valuation in the appraisal, and projecting 
backwards using the same indexing tool Kensington used produces a loan to value of 84% -
which is within the acceptable band.
Theres a difficulty here. It turns on whether, in December 2017, Mr G and Ms L had a loan 
to value of 85% or below  or above that level. And that now cant be known for certain.Kensingtons approach  of using the last known value plus indexation  is a legitimate one, 
and one thats standard across the industry for calculating loan to value for product switches.
But where there are grounds for disputing a valuation  for example, as is the case here, 
because of works to the property in the meantime  our approach is that its fair for the 
lender to commission a new formal valuation by a surveyor (at the borrowers expense) to 
determine the correct loan to value.
We cant now know what a valuer would have said in December 2017 if that had happened. 
So I need to weigh up all the evidence and decide whether I think its fair to say that, at that 
time, the loan to value was likely to be above or below 85%.
Having considered this carefully, I think its fair in all the circumstances for me to find that 
Mr G and Ms Ls loan to value did fall below the threshold.
As I say, taking the initial value indexed is a reasonable starting point. But in this case, given 
the works in 2014, there are reasonable grounds for saying that by 2017 the property would 
be worth more than the indexed value  so I think the loan to value would have been below 
the 91% produced by indexation alone.
The value Mr G and Ms L have now provided dates from around six months ago. So its 
reasonably contemporary. It takes into account the impact of the 2014 works. To that extent 
it might be a more reliable starting point than the 2006 valuation. But I also need to take into 
account that its an estate agents appraisal rather than a formal valuation  though prepared 
by a firm qualified to carry out formal valuations  and therefore is less reliable than a formal 
valuation would be. 
Taking those two alternative starting points into account, its likely the loan to value in 
December 2017 was somewhere between 84% and 91%. Its difficult to be more precise 
than that  because deriving the loan to value involves either projecting forward ten years 
from a valuation that doesnt reflect changes to the property, or projecting backward five 
years from a value that isnt a formal valuation. 
I need to bear in mind too that property valuation is never an exact science; theres always a 
margin of error in that a valuation represents a surveyors professional opinion rather than a 
precise and definitive measurement. In the end, a propertys value is what someone is 
prepared to pay for it, and that cant be known for certain in the absence of a sale.
Ive also borne in mind that had Kensington approached Mr G and Ms Ls 2017 application 
as Ive said it ought fairly to have done, with MCOB 11.8.1 E in mind, Mr G and Ms L would 
have had the chance to challenge the index valuation at the time through a formal valuation. 
They dont have that chance now.
Taking all the evidence into account, and recognising that its imperfect, but also recognising 
that the need for me to make this determination derives ultimately from unfairness on 
Kensingtons part, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to 
proceed on the basis that Mr G and Ms Ls property value in December 2017 was such that 
they qualified for the 85% loan to value product switch.
That being the case, they met all of Kensingtons product switch criteria other than the one 
relating to the date the mortgage was taken out. Ive already explained why I dont think it 
was fair to take that into account and that  taking account of MCOB 11.8.1 E  doing so 
resulted in a refusal that wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im therefore satisfied that its a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint for Kensington to treat Mr G and Ms L as if it had offered them a product switch in December 2017, taking 
effect from 1 February 2018. 
To put things right, Kensington should re-calculate Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage as if they had 
taken a two year fixed rate of 3.24% from 1 February 2018 to 31 January 2020, followed by 
a two year fixed rate of 3.9% from 1 February 2020 to 31 January 2022  these are the two 
year rates for the up to 85% loan to value bands at each time. 
The reversion rate for the 2020 rate is LIBOR plus 4.2%; this is very similar to the current 
rate Mr G and Ms L are paying before the impact of the redress  they are on the SVR plus 
1.25%, and the SVR is 3% over LIBOR, making 4.25% over LIBOR in total. Nevertheless, an 
adjustment to the reversion rate will also be required. Since 2021, LIBOR has ceased to 
exist so Kensington will need to treat Mr G and Ms Ls ongoing interest rate as if their 
mortgage had reverted to what it used to replace the LIBOR plus 4.2% reversion rate.
I understand that Kensington has very recently transferred Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage to a 
new lender, notwithstanding this ongoing complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that, given Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage is now past the end 
of the interest only term, its fair that the redress is used to reduce the capital balance 
outstanding. Its unfortunate the loan was transferred before this complaint was resolved. 
Now that it has transferred the loan, therefore, Kensington will need to pay the redress to the 
new lender so the balance can be reduced. Kensington will also need to make arrangements 
with the new lender to reduce the ongoing interest rate as set out above.
Mr G and Ms L also asked that in resolution of this complaint, their mortgage be converted to 
repayment terms and the term extended. But thats not something I can fairly do here. The 
compensation Ive awarded puts them back in the position they would have been in if theyd 
made overpayments since 2018  to the extent them not doing so was caused by the 
interest rate. And changing the mortgage to repayment terms and extending the term is a 
separate matter for which a full application would be needed. If thats something they want to 
do, Mr G and Ms L will need to discuss that with the new lender.
Finally, I said that Kensington should pay Mr G and Ms L a further £400 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I still think thats a fair amount of compensation.
Other matters
In response to my provisional decision, Mr G and Ms L raised further matters. 
They are concerned that Kensington is moving their mortgage to a new lender. And they say 
that Kensington refused to issue them a mortgage prisoner letter allowing them to move to 
a different lender in 2021.
Neither of these matters are part of this complaint, and theyre not things we have 
investigated. 
Clause 60 of the mortgage terms and conditions gives Kensington the right to move the 
mortgage to another lender. But whether it was fair that it did so is not something Ive 
considered as part of this complaint. Mr G and Ms L would need to make a new complaint 
about that.
A mortgage prisoner letter is something the regulator required lenders to send to 
customers who were unable to change their mortgage with their existing lender but who 
might benefit from moving to another lender  it tells the new lender that it might be appropriate to use the flexibility allowed by the modified assessment rules to take on the 
mortgage, allowing the lender to access new terms. 
Mr G and Ms L say they tried to do this, and a new lender was willing to take them on if 
Kensington would provide a letter. Theyve shown me extracts from emails in which it 
appears Kensington was confusing their request for this letter with a request for a new 
interest rate from its mortgage prisoner product switch range, which was not what Mr G 
and Ms L were asking for. However, Ive only seen those email extracts and as this doesnt 
form part of this complaint, Ive not made any findings on whether Kensington acted fairly in 
this respect. If Mr G and Ms L think that Kensington failed to issue the letter it was required 
to issue, and that this failure caused them a loss, they will need to make a separate 
complaint about that too. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited as follows:
Kensington should re-calculate Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage as if the following rates 
had applied:
o3.24% fixed from 1 February 2018 to 31 January 2020;
o3.9% fixed from 1 February 2020 to 31 January 2022;
oVariable LIBOR plus 4.2%, or the replacement for this rate on the withdrawal 
of LIBOR, from 1 February 2022 to the date redress is paid.
In each case, Kensington should treat the amounts Mr G and Ms L paid above the 
revised monthly payments as overpayments towards the capital each month, 
reducing the interest charged in subsequent months.
This calculation will produce a revised mortgage balance as at the date of the 
calculation. Kensington should pay the difference between the revised balance and 
the actual balance on that date to Mr G and Ms Ls new lender to reduce the balance 
of their mortgage to what it would be had the interest rates set out above been in 
place.
Kensington should make arrangements with the new lender to ensure that the 
interest rate, and monthly payments, going forward from the calculation date are 
based on the reversion rate for the January 2020 rate (as amended following LIBOR 
withdrawal) rather than on the rate set out in the 2006 mortgage offer. If Kensington 
is unable to arrange this with the new lender, it will need to find another way to 
ensure that Mr G and Ms L are compensated for the difference in payments going 
forward, until such time as the new lender offers them a new rate (if it has them 
available) or until the mortgage is paid off, whichever is the sooner.
Kensington should pay Mr G and Ms L £400 compensation, in addition to the £250 
separately offered in respect of the historic fees. This should be paid direct to them 
rather than added to the balance reduction (unless Mr G and Ms L ask for it to be 
added to the balance reduction) and should be paid within 28 days of the date we 
notify Kensington Mr G and Ms L have accepted this decision, if they do. If payment 
is not made within 28 days, Kensington should add simple annual interest of 8%* 
running from the date of notification to date of payment.* If payment to Mr G and Ms L includes an 8% interest element, Kensington may deduct income tax 
from the 8% interest element as required by HMRC. But it should tell Mr G and Ms L what it has 
deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if they are entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman