DRN-1388516
The complaint
Miss A says MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss A took out a £300 loan with MYJAR on 2 April 2019. The loan had a contractual term of 
80 days and was repayable in three monthly instalments, with a total (original) interest 
charge of £121. Miss A repaid the loan early on 24 May 2019 and so actually paid £85.84 in 
interest.
An adjudicator considered the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Miss A didn't 
agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss A could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
MYJAR asked Miss A some questions about her income and expenditure before lending to 
her. Miss A told MYJAR her monthly income was £1,860 and that her expenditure included 
£206 for rent/mortgage, £300 for credit commitments and £150 in the 'other' category.
MYJAR also carried out a credit check. This told MYJAR that Miss A had opened two new 
accounts in the three months before April 2019 and that she had an estimated £13,000 in 
unsecured debt.
Taking everything into account, I don't think MYJAR was wrong to have lent to Miss A. The 
monthly instalments look affordable based on the information Miss A provided about her 
income and expenditure. And I don't think the credit report MYJAR obtained undermined 
what Miss A had declared to the extent MYJAR ought to have carried out additional checks.
I know Miss A has said she had to borrow again to repay this loan - and I'm sorry to hear 
that. But I don't think MYJAR could reasonably have foreseen this.
For these reasons, I'm not upholding Miss A's complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss A's complaint against MYJAR Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman