DRN-2473208
The complaint
Miss D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund debit card transactions, which she says 
she didnt make or otherwise authorise. Shes also unhappy with the handling of her fraud 
claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary of events here.
In September 2019, Miss Ds Monzo debit card was used for three online transactions 
totalling £152.50. 
Miss D contacted Monzo the same day to report that she didnt recognise the transactions 
and shed neither made or authorised these. She told Monzo she was the only person who 
had access to her card and PIN. She said at the time the disputed transactions took place 
she was at work. She confirmed her card and her mobile phone were in her possession. She 
asked Monzo to refund the disputed transactions. 
The next day, having investigated Miss Ds claim Monzo advised her that they didn't 
consider the transactions fraudulent and would not be reimbursing her for them. They said 
based on the information provided by Miss D and that which was internally available to them 
it was not possible for these transactions to have been authorised by anyone else other than 
Miss D. 
Miss D maintained that she hasn't made these transactions and complained, she added that 
due to the short period of time between her reporting the matter and Monzo providing her 
with an outcome, she didn't think it had investigated her claim properly. Monzo didnt agree, 
it said its investigation was thorough and maintained its position in relation to the disputed 
transactions. Miss D disagreed and referred the matter to our service. 
An investigator looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she felt unable to 
conclude that the transactions were made fraudulently. She was persuaded they were most 
likely authorised by Miss D and Monzo were therefore entitled to hold her liable for them.
Miss D didnt agree with the investigators view and responded with new information, stating 
that shes been scammed and cant afford to lose that amount of money. 
Miss D says at the time of the disputed transactions she was dealing with several personal 
issues and was very vulnerable. Shed received a call from someone who she believed was 
a merchant she had been trying to obtain a refund from. They asked her for her card details, 
which she provided, to process a refund. Miss D suggests the person she spoke to mustve 
made the payments and taken advantage of her. 
Miss D is unhappy Monzo didnt ask her more specific and relevant questions at the time she 
reported the disputed transactions. She says as its conclusion was reached within a day and 
without knowledge of the information she has since provided, this shows the investigation 
into her fraud claim wasnt dealt with correctly by Monzo.  
She also says Monzo as a bank is responsible for keeping its customers money safe from 
fraud. Part of this is to flag any suspicious and/or unusual activity. Miss D says the three 
payments in question should have been identified by Monzo as suspicious and it shouldve 
confirmed these payments with her before allowing them to be made. Miss D says Monzos 
failure to do so has led to her loss, so it should refund the disputed transactions. 
Unhappy with the outcome reached by the investigator Miss D asked that an ombudsman 
review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Generally, Monzo can hold Miss D liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided by Monzo that the transactions were 
correctly authenticated  that is Miss Ds genuine card details were used to make the 
disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Monzo to hold her liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
So, Ive thought about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that 
Miss D consented to the transactions being made. And, from what Ive seen, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Miss D authorised the transactions. This is 
because:
- All three transactions were authorised by a 3D secure SMS code. These codes were 
sent to Miss Ds registered mobile device and entered on the merchants website to 
authorise the payment. 
- Miss D had told Monzo she hadnt shared her details with anyone. She was at work 
and, her mobile phone and card were with her at the time that the disputed 
payments were made.
- Miss D changed her evidence after our investigator shared her view. But she has 
provided very little supporting evidence of her recent version of events. She 
presented several reasons when asked why she hadnt shared that shed given her 
card details to someone over the phone with Monzo or our service earlier. Ive 
carefully considered what Miss D has said but I dont find her explanations for why 
she failed to mention this earlier to be persuasive. As Im not satisfied that Miss Ds 
account of events is accurate or credible, I cant rely on her testimony and am 
consequently more persuaded by the technical evidence.For the reasons I have given, I think its more likely Miss D made the disputed transactions 
herself. It follows Monzo can hold Miss D liable. So, I wont be asking it to refund her. 
In her submissions Miss D says Monzo shouldve done more and the transactions shouldve 
been picked up by its fraud systems. However, as Ive concluded Miss Ds testimony to be 
unreliable and think its more likely Miss D made the disputed transactions herself, I dont 
think I need to make a finding in relation to this matter. I say this because even if I were to 
say Monzo shouldve intervened (which to be clear is not what Im saying shouldve 
happened), for the reasons above I dont think it wouldve made a difference to the outcome 
of complaint.
Finally, I know Miss D feels Monzo could not have carried out a thorough investigation in 
such a short space of time. But I have not seen anything to suggest Monzo did not 
investigate the fraud claim properly. Im satisfied based on the information Miss D had 
provided Monzo and the technical evidence available to it, it had enough information to 
reach a decision in the time it did. And I think, with the information Monzo had, it was fair in 
holding Miss D liable for the disputed transactions. 
I appreciate Miss D feels strongly about this whole matter and Monzos actions. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, overall, Im satisfied that Monzo has treated Miss D fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman