DRN-4025059
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B say that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited, 
trading as NFU Mutual (NFU), mis-sold them a joint motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B have a joint motor insurance policy with NFU. Mrs B was involved in an 
incident whilst driving her own car. 
The way this incident was recorded on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) was the 
subject of a previous complaint made to this service. After the complaint, this incident was 
recorded as driver collided with pedestrian and the status as withdrawn  incident only - 
notification only. However, as this policy is a joint policy, the incident is recorded under both 
policyholders names, meaning it may impact both Mr B and Mrs B. 
Mrs B and Mr B are very unhappy with this. They say if theyd known an incident involving 
either party was going to potentially impact them both, they would never have bought a joint 
policy. They say this was never explained, and the policy was mis-sold.
NFU disagree. It says the notification has now been correctly recorded on CUE, and it says 
the policy was not mis-sold. So, Mrs B and Mr B have brought their complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but said NFU hadnt done anything wrong. 
But Mrs B and Mr B dont agree, and theyve asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Before I start, I would like to clarify that I will only be dealing with the alleged mis-sale of the 
policy in this final decision. The issues relating to the open claim and the original recording of 
this incident on CUE were dealt with in a separate complaint. 
The crux of the complaint stems from how this incident has now been recorded on CUE. Mrs 
B and Mr B say they didnt know a claim recorded against either party on a joint policy could 
impact them both. They say this information wouldve been pivotal to their decision at the 
time of sale. They say it was NFUs responsibility to tell them this information. Mrs B and Mr 
B argue that NFU didnt know what it was selling. They say Mr B was listed as the main 
policyholder on the policy and that Mrs B was listed as a named driver, not a joint 
policyholder. They ask how can this be on a joint policy if Mr B is the main policyholder? 
They say NFU admits to a mis-sale when it says in its final response that it wouldnt have 
expected any discussion at the point of sale, between its sales agent and Mr B about how a 
claim might ever be recorded on CUE. Mrs B and Mr B say this is a limitation on the policy 
and NFU shouldve been clear, fair and not misleading. 
This policy was sold in 2017. Because the date of inception was quite some time ago, there 
is no sales call recording available. But I do have the call notes written by NFU at that time. 
Ive gone through the details on file of the sales journey for the policy Mrs B and Mr B 
bought.  I can see Mr B called NFU on 17 March 2017. The note says Mr B called for a 
quote for Mrs Bs car and that after a discussion, he was happy with the quote and it was 
sent to him by post. He called again on 31 March 2017. He wanted to accept the quote. This 
note says Started cover from 00:01 on 9/04/17 confirmed policy and emergency numbers 
non-advised / distance. Posted documents LIMITED STATUS/PRODUCT DISCLOSURE: 
YES
The documentation says this was a non-advised policy. Mr B called NFU, and NFU then sent 
out the product documentation.  The correspondence is addressed to both Mrs B and Mr 
Band they had the opportunity to review the paperwork before buying the policy. Two weeks 
later Mr B called back to accept cover. Further to this a second car was added to this same 
policy later in April 2017. As such Mrs B and Mr B were aware the policy was in both their 
names, a joint policy. 
So, I need to look at what NFU was required to do. As this was a non-advised sale, all NFU 
needed to do was to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so Mrs B 
and Mr B could make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. I know 
the argument is that there was no conversation about how claims are recorded on CUE. 
NFU say this wasnt discussed and never would be discussed during a sales call. 
And I agree. In a non-advised sale scenario, this is not something I would expect to have 
been discussed. I know Mrs B and Mr B feel differently. And if this was an advised sale, its 
possible NFUs responsibility wouldve been different. But as it stands, it looks like Mr B rang 
NFU, they discussed a policy, and NFU sent Mr B details. Two weeks later he accepted the 
policy and then a few weeks later added another car. I wouldnt expect NFU to have 
explained how claims might be recorded. Mrs B and Mr B were aware this was a joint policy. 
If they had any questions, they had a two-week period to digest the information sent, and a 
further nine days before the policy started, and since then (2017) to ask. As such, Im not 
persuaded that NFU misled Mrs B and Mr B about the cover they were purchasing in 2017. I 
dont think NFU has mis-sold the policy or treated Mrs B and Mr B unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs Bs argument. Yes, if they had separate policies things would be 
different. And even though Mr B is listed as the main policyholder and Mrs B is listed as a 
driver, this is for administration purposes only. But this is a joint policy, and by its very nature 
joint means all parties are joined as one. Its likely there are benefits to having a joint policy. 
Its possible the premium is reduced, and there may be other administration benefits. Im 
sure Mrs B and Mr B considered these benefits at the time. I can see Mr B rang for a quote, 
and then rang back. So, they had time to research and consider the policy. 
But as its a joint policy all incidents get recorded under the details of the joint policy holders, 
so NFU has done nothing wrong by recording the incident as it has. I do note from the file, 
its been recorded as driver collided with pedestrian, which would indicate that for anyone 
looking to use this information, its clear that it was Mrs B that was involved in this incident.  
I know Mrs B and Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But from what I can see NFU 
has done everything that was required of them at sale. Its now recorded the incident 
correctly, under the joint policyholders names, specifically highlighting that it was Mrs B that 
was involved. As such, I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking NFU to take any 
further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman