DRN-2526376
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc debited card payments from its
account as a result of chargebacks.
What happened
L had an agreement with Barclays to process card payments. L had taken two payments  
one for £358.90 and one for £50 from the same client on 1 July 2019. It said it had not 
received any communication from Barclays before these were charged back. And it said 
that it had already provided an agreed refund to the client by cheque of £309.80.
Barclays issued a final response saying it had discussed the complaint with L and would 
not be upholding it. When it submitted its complaint file to this service it said that the card 
issuer had made the decision about whether the chargeback should stand or not. And to 
the extent that L had made a refund then this was a civil matter with its client.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Barclays 
had shown that it was notified about the chargeback of both amounts on 7 October 2019 
and it had written to L about this. These letters were correctly addressed, and he couldnt 
hold Barclays responsible for any problems with the postal service. A response had been 
requested within 14 days and L did not contact Barclays until after that. L had sent a copy 
of the refund cheque and some email correspondence with its client. But that was not 
accepted as sufficient to defend the chargeback.
L did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 18 December 2020 because I had received a different 
explanation from Barclays of what happened and wanted to explain my reasoning about it.
L has provided information it says shows that its client had instead of court proceedings 
accepted a settlement paid by cheque. Barclays said to L at the time that it was not satisfied 
that it had given proof of the payment to present to the cardholders bank. In an email of 11 
November 2019, it referred to not having proof that the cheque had cleared, or who it was 
payable to and the cheque number.
There were two other issues with defending the chargeback too. The first was that L had not 
responded to the letters that Barclays had sent about the chargeback within 14 days. I 
appreciated that L says that it did not receive the letters, but I considered on balance these 
were correctly sent. That delay in itself meant that any defence would have needed to be a 
on a good faith basis.
The other and further issue that Barclays has now clarified is that any refund that had 
been made should have been back to the original card account. Its referred to both the 
terms and conditions of the agreement with L and also to the rules of the card issuer about 
this. And it said that there are limited exceptions allowed where for example a card had 
expired, or a card account had been closed. Id seen case notes stating that it spoke to L 
about this when it was dealing with the complaint. Here a refund by cheque was outside 
the terms and conditions and that made a defence of a chargeback very unlikely to 
succeed.
As a result of all these factors Barclays decided not to defend the chargeback. Thats a 
different explanation of what happened to the one given to this service that our investigator 
relied upon. I needed to take that into account in making a decision about the complaint.
I didnt on balance think that this changes things. I thought it would be reasonable for 
Barclays to attempt to defend a chargeback where there was a prospect of that being 
successful. Here as this defence would have been out of time, based on a refund paid 
outside card scheme rules and with incomplete evidence I was unable to find it most likely 
that this would have been accepted by the card issuer. So, I didnt find that the way that 
Barclays dealt with this was unreasonable and has affected the outcome. I thought that L 
was responsible for the chargeback amounts
I could understand that L would be dissatisfied about this especially as its only recourse is 
civil action with a client it was already in dispute with. And its going to be have been 
disappointing to have been provided with incorrect information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays responded and said it accepted my decision. L did not respond.
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman