DRN-4383188
The complaint
Mr F has complained that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) mis-sold him fee-paying Select and 
Platinum packaged accounts in April 2007 and December 2007, respectively.
Mr F has given a number of reasons why he says they were mis-sold. These include that he 
was told that they would help improve his credit score and that they were needed to access 
benefits such as a credit card and loan. Mr F also says that TSB knew that he wasnt eligible 
to claim on one or more of the benefits.
What happened
TSB said that Mr F had complained outside of the time limits that apply when using our 
service. I issued a decision explaining why our service is able to consider this complaint.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she didnt think that the packaged 
accounts had been mis-sold. 
Mr F disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to say that the packaged accounts were mis-sold.
Mr F says that he was sold the accounts on the basis that he had to upgrade to a packaged 
account to obtain a loan. However, apart from Mr Fs testimony, there is no other information 
to indicate that Mr F was actually told this. 
TSB has been able to provide evidence about Mr Fs loan history. And I can see Mr F didnt 
apply for a loan until a considerable time later  on 30 December 2008. Therefore, given the 
significant amount of time between when Mr F upgraded his account and when he eventually 
applied for a loan, on balance, it doesnt seem likely that Mr F agreed to the Select account 
because he was led to believe the only way he could get a loan was to upgrade his account.
Furthermore, Mr F upgraded his Select account to a Platinum account online, only a few 
months after hed agreed to the Select account. But Mr Fs action dont seem consistent with 
his testimony. What I mean by this is, if it was the case that Mr F genuinely thought he 
needed the Select account to obtain a loan, I dont see why he would actively choose to 
upgrade his account online i.e. without the involvement of TSB, to an even more expensive 
account only a few months later. Instead, I wouldve expected him to have stayed with the 
cheapest packaged account available, if he didnt want it but thought he needed it to get a 
loan.
So having weighed up the available evidence, I think its more likely that Mr F agreed to the 
two accounts because he was attracted to the benefits that they provided, rather than 
because he thought he had no choice in the matter.
The Select account was sold in branch, and it seems that this mayve been sold on an 
advised basis. This meant that TSB had to check that it was appropriate for Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time. However, as the Platinum upgrade occurred online, without the 
involvement of TSB, I think that was sold on a non-advised basis. 
At the time, the Select account cost £7 per month and provided benefits such as breakdown 
cover and mobile phone cover. It also provided a £50 interest free overdraft facility, with 
reduced rates of interest on overdrawn balances above this amount, up to the agreed limit. 
From the evidence that TSB has provided it appears that Mr F was regularly using his 
overdraft at the time, and also had a mobile phone. So I think he was likely able to benefit 
from these features of the account. And as the Select account was the cheapest account to 
include such features, I think that TSBs recommendation was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
When Mr F upgraded his account to the Platinum account, this meant that he also had travel 
insurance included with his account. As this was sold on a non-advised basis, TSB didnt 
need to check if it was right for Mr F. But TSB has provided evidence to indicate that Mr F 
was regularly travelling abroad at the time. So it seems likely in the circumstances that Mr F 
upgraded to the Platinum account so that he could get travel insurance (alongside the other 
benefits included with the Platinum account, some of which replicated the Select account 
benefits) as well.
As well as making sure the Select account was a reasonable fit for Mr Fs circumstances, 
TSB also had to provide Mr F with the important information about both accounts and the 
associated features, so that he could make an informed decision about whether to upgrade 
or not.
Because of how long ago the sales took place, its not clear what information Mr F was 
presented with. But having said that, I think its likely that Mr F was given at least some 
information about the cost and benefits of the two accounts. For example, I doubt that Mr F 
wouldve agreed to the more expensive Platinum account, unless hed seen information 
about the account that attracted him to the account. TSB has said that Mr F later went on to 
register a phone under the mobile phone insurance. Again, this makes me think that Mr F 
was given enough information to have a good understanding of what was included with his 
account.
I accept that its possible that Mr F may not have been given all of the important information 
about the two accounts, when they were sold to him. But Ive not seen anything about Mr Fs 
circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to them, had he 
been given even more information about them.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Select or Platinum accounts were 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman