DRN-3126717
The complaint
Mrs W says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Mrs W says she was in a debt spiral 
and so she couldnt afford the loan repayments. She thinks that Morses shouldve seen this 
and not lent to her. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs W between 
December 2017 and December 2019. Some of the information Morses has provided about 
the lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 01/12/2017 £400 33 25/05/2018
2 25/05/2018 £400 33 05/10/2018
3 06/12/2018 £600 33 31/05/2019
4 31/05/2019 £600 33 06/12/2019
5 06/12/2019 £600 34 31/07/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She said that she didnt think that Morses had 
lent irresponsibly for loans 1 to 4. But she did think that it shouldnt have approved loan 5 as 
it was likely Ms W was reliant on the lending by this point. 
Mrs W didnt comment on what the adjudicator said. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It didnt think that five loans in two years 
was excessive. And the checks it did showed that Mrs W could afford the loan repayments. 
She had a good repayment history. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mrs W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs W had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated an individual, proportionate affordability check for loan 5 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Mrs W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
Mrs W had been indebted to Morses for two years. And she was making a 
commitment to make repayments for another seven months. I think this is a long time 
for Mrs W to be using high cost credit, given what Morses knew about her 
circumstances. 
Mrs Ws first loan was for £400 and loan 5 was for £600.  And Mrs W was provided 
with a new loan very shortly after settling her previous one. 
This suggests that Mrs W was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in 
her income but to meet an ongoing, and increasing, need. I dont think there is a 
pattern of decreasing or managed debt here. And its likely she would continue to 
need to borrow going forward. And so, its not that relevant that the information Morses had showed that the loans 
may be affordable, as the pattern itself now looked harmful. 
So Morses ought to have realised Mrs W was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. And Mrs W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs W lost out because Morses approved borrowing from loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 and Morses should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 5. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all 
hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs W loan 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs W the total of A plus B.D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing at loan 5 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman