DRN-2559990
The complaint
Ms R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has not correctly applied 
adjustments to her account after she returned a faulty item. 
What happened
Ms R has a running-account credit facility with Shop Direct. She can use the account to buy 
items from the very website. Some items on the website can be bought using a buy now pay 
later (BNPL) option, which enables the buyer to delay payment for up to a year before any 
interest is charged. If payment in full is made within the BNPL period, no interest is charged.
In January 2018 Ms R bought a laptop for £599.99, using the BNPL option; as long as she 
paid in full within 12 months, no interest would be charged. Otherwise, interest for the full 
year would be added at the end of that period. Ms R did not pay in full within 12 months, and 
in January 2019 interest of £249.58 was added to her account. 
Ms R said however that the laptop was faulty. She returned it in March 2019, and her very 
account was credited with the purchase price of £599.99. Later that month a further credit of 
£249.58  representing the interest in respect of the laptop  was made. These credits did 
not, however, reduce the account balance to zero, since there were other transactions on it 
as well.
Ms R said that she had made payments towards the laptop totalling £315.04. She thought 
she should receive a refund of those too. Shop Direct agreed to make a refund and sent Ms 
R a cheque. However, Ms R noticed that the same sum had been added back to her 
account. She believes that is an error.
Shop Direct explained that the amount of the cheque had been added back to the account 
because the cheque was for amounts that had previously been credited. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened but concluded that Shop Direct had acted 
correctly. Ms R did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. She felt she 
had made payments of £315.04 towards a laptop which was faulty and which she had 
returned; adding that sum to her account left her out of pocket.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why, having received a cheque from Shop Direct, Ms R feels that the value 
of that cheque should not have been added back to her account. I can see too why it might 
appear to her that she has paid £315.04 for something which was faulty and which she has 
returned. However, that is not what has happened. 
The refund of the price of the laptop and the interest, together with its return, put Ms R in the 
position she would have been in had she not bought it. But for the payments she had made 
towards it, I believe she would accept that. The issue I have to consider, therefore, is how 
those payments should be treated. 
In reality, the payments which Ms R considers she made towards the laptop were not made 
towards the purchase at all. They were made to reduce the overall balance on her very 
account. Transactions on the account might accrue interest in different ways (for example, if 
there are several BNPL purchases made at different times), and this can give the impression 
that payments are made against purchases. In fact, however, payments to the account are 
credited against borrowing. The payments Ms R made to the account reduced the level of 
borrowing; they werent payments towards the laptop. 
Ms R did therefore receive a benefit by making payments, and that was the case whether or 
not she received a refund for the laptop. If she had never bought it, but had still made 
payments of £315.04, the account balance would have been that much lower. And if Shop 
Direct had then sent her a cheque for that amount, she would be £315.04 better off than she 
should be  she would have the benefit of the cheque and of the reduced balance. 
For these reasons, I am satisfied that Shop Direct has applied the refunds correctly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Ms Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman