DRN-3459700
The complaint
Mr N complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) cancelled the 
promotional interest rate on his credit card account and refused to reinstate it.
What happened
Mr N holds a credit card account with Virgin.
On 17 September 2021, Mr N called Virgin. He told them he couldnt afford to pay the 
scheduled minimum payment on his card that month due to a change in his employment 
circumstances which meant his income was delayed. He offered to make the payment by the 
end of the month.
Mr N says Virgin granted his requested as long as he made payment before the month end 
as promised. He says they told him that if he paid beyond the end of the month, he would be 
charged a late fee; It could be reported to the credit reference agencies and he could lose 
his promotional interest rate. Mr C says he paid the payment due as promised.
Mr N say that In October 2021, his payment direct debit increased from £220 to £550 without 
warning. So, he called his bank to cancel the direct debit and reverse the payment as he 
couldnt afford that amount. He then called Virgin to find out what had happened. Virgin told 
him his promotional rate had been cancelled and the new payment included interest. Mr N 
told Virgin what had been agreed. They agreed to listen to a recording of the call and see if 
his promotional rate could be reinstated.
Mr N says he didnt hear back from Virgin. So, he called them again and was told they were 
still processing his query. Despite several further unsuccessful attempts to call Virgin, Mr N 
still didnt receive a response. He eventually spoke to them again on 28 October 2021. He 
wanted Virgin to reinstate his promotional rate and told them hed not been told it had been 
removed. Virgin logged Mr Ns complaint for investigation.
In the meantime, Mr N made no further payments to his account. After eight weeks, Mr N still 
hadnt received a response from Virgin. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators liaised with Virgin in an attempt to resolve Mr Ns complaint. Virgin 
didnt agree theyd made a mistake when they removed the promotional offer on Mr Ns 
account. But they did agree theyd failed to give good service in respect of Mr Ns complaint. 
They acknowledged he was expecting a call back from their promotional offer team which he 
didnt receive. They also apologised for any misunderstanding during his call to them on 17 
September 2021. They offered compensation of £50. Our investigator thought Virgins offer 
was fair and reasonable and recommended it to Mr N.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he called Virgin on 12 September 2021 and was told his 
promotional offer would remain in place as long as he paid when he said he would. He also 
said he shouldnt pay any interest for the period while his complaint was being investigated 
and his credit file should be amended to remove any adverse information. 
Having considered Mr Ns comments, our investigator issued a further view. He didnt think 
Virgin needed to do anything more. Mr N didnt agree. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I needed to establish what, if any, mistakes or errors Virgin made and whether 
this resulted in Mr N being treated unfairly or unreasonably. And if that was the case, what a 
fair and reasonable outcome should be.
It appears Mr N was paying the minimum monthly payment to his Virgin credit card account 
by direct debit from his personal current account. Payments appear to fall due around 10th of 
each month (or the first business day thereafter). I believe Mr Ns direct debit payment was 
due on 10 September 2021. Virgins records show this payment was returned as the direct 
debit instruction had been cancelled. Mr N confirmed hed cancelled the direct debit.
There appears some confusion about when Mr N contacted Virgin in September 2021. 
Virgins records clearly show the call took place on 17 September 2021. Ive listened to a 
recording of the call to establish what was said.
Mr N explained he was changing job resulting in a delay in being paid. He asked if he could 
make his September payment by the end of the month. Virgin agreed this and made a note 
in their files. But, there appears to be some disagreement about what was said during that 
call. Mr N believes Virgin told him his promotional offer would remain as long as he made his 
payment by the end of the month, as agreed.
I realise this will disappoint Mr N, but I dont agree. Virgins agent said, And just because the 
payment is going to be a bit late, I assume youre aware of a few things that could 
happenSo, if you do have an interest free promotion, that could be removed. A late fee 
could be appliedThe arrears could potentially be reported to your credit file. Mr N only 
asked for further information about his credit file. Virgins agent said, Credit files get 
reported at the end of the month. Normally if youre up to date by the end.
I can find no evidence that Virgin told Mr N his promotional rate would be retained as long as 
he made payment by the month end. And it appears his promotional rate was actually 
removed by Virgin on 14 September 2021  after he cancelled his direct debit and the 
payment was returned.
I then looked at Mr Ns credit card statement. Theres a section headed Your interest rate 
explained. I think this section is clear and easy to understand. It says, If we do not receive 
the Minimum Payment when it is due we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from 
the start of that statement period. Thats what Virgin did here, so I cant reasonably say they 
made a mistake. But I do think Virgin shouldve told Mr N this when he spoke to them on 17 
September 2021.
Virgin said that Mr Ns request to reinstate the promotional rate was passed to the 
appropriate team to consider. But, they could only do that if his arrears were cleared. 
Because they werent, the request wasnt progressed any further. Unfortunately, Mr N wasnt 
told that either.
Mr N has admitted he hasnt made payments while his complaint was being considered. I do 
understand why he made that decision. Ultimately, Mr Ns credit card is subject to an 
agreement under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And accepting he had an 
outstanding complaint; he still has an obligation to continue making payments unless Virgin 
agree to vary that agreement. And I cant see they did that here.
In summary, I agree Virgin couldve been clearer by informing Mr N that his promotional rate 
had been cancelled. Particularly during his initial call to them. I also think they shouldve 
updated him about his request to reinstate the promotional rate. Virgin have offered £50 
compensation. And while I realise Mr N has already rejected this, I think the amount offered 
feels fair here. So, I will support that within my final decision.But I cant reasonably conclude that Virgin did anything wrong when they removed the 
promotional rate. I think it was clear on their statements that this would be a consequence if 
a minimum payment wasnt received when it was due. And theres no evidence they agreed 
to vary that. So, while I appreciate Mr Ns stance on this, I shant be asking Virgin to do 
anything more.
Putting things right
In summary, I agree Virgin couldve been clearer by informing Mr N that his promotional rate 
had been cancelled. Particularly during his initial call to them. I also think they shouldve 
updated him about his request to reinstate the promotional rate. Virgin have offered £50 
compensation. And while I realise Mr N has already rejected this, I think the amount offered 
feels fair here. So, I will support that within my final decision.
But I cant reasonably conclude that Virgin did anything wrong when they removed the 
promotional rate. I think it was clear on their statements that this would be a consequence if 
a minimum payment wasnt received when it was due. And theres no evidence they agreed 
to vary that. So, while I appreciate Mr Ns stance on this, I shant be asking Virgin to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint.
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr N £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman