DRN-4210139
The complaint
Mr H complains that Commsave Credit Union Limited (Commsave) ought not to have lent 
to him as the lending was both unaffordable and irresponsible.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr H applied to Commsave for a loan. He borrowed £5,000 over a term of 
156 weeks, the repayments were £45.04 per week. The repayments came directly from Mr 
Hs salary. As part of the agreement Mr H was also required to open a savings account with 
Commsave. Further, in order to borrow from Commsave a borrower has to be a member of 
Commsaves credit union. Mr H is and was a member when he borrowed from Commsave. 
Prior to taking out the loan in August 2019 Mr H had borrowed before from Commsave but 
he had used a different membership number. Before he applied for the August 2019 loan Mr 
H acquired a new membership number. The August 2019 loan was the first time Mr H had 
taken out a loan with Commsave using the new membership number.
Mr H complains that during the application process for the August 2019 loan Commsave 
asked for no information to prove his income and expenditure. Moreover, Mr H adds that 
Commsave did not take account of his wider financial circumstances. For example he had 
county court judgements against him and defaults on other accounts. Further, hed taken out 
several earlier loans from Commsave in quick succession. He had even asked to reduce 
repayments on at least one loan hed had previously with it due to money troubles. 
In addition, Mr H tells us he subsequently had three top up loans from Commsave, after the 
August 2019 loan. Although Mr H is only complaining about the loan of August 2019. Mr H 
has paid off this loan. 
Moreover, Mr H complains that the lending was also irresponsible as he used all of the 
money from the loan for problem gambling, (problem gambling can be defined as gambling 
that is disruptive or damaging to the person who gambles or their family or interferes with 
their daily life). 
In summary, Mr H believes Commsave would have known all about his precarious financial 
state which had been caused predominately by his problem gambling if it had carried out all 
the checks it should have done prior to lending to him. 
Further, Mr H considers that Commsave let him borrow so much from it in order to trap 
him. Mr H adds that he does not consider Commsave has given him the level of customer 
service he is entitled to expect. Mr H says Commsave has now suddenly decided not to lend 
to him anymore. He tells us that the lending in August 2019, the subsequent customer 
service he received and the refusal to lend to him anymore have caused him to become 
depressed. Mr H complained to Commsave.
To put things right, at first Mr H wanted Commsave to wipe my debt away he asked for this 
despite saying he had already paid off this loan. Later he asked for a refund of all interest 
and charges that he had paid on the loan. 
Commsave responded by first making some general points around its operating model and 
governance. Specifically it said:
 Credit unions operate under a unique cooperative model, therefore we do receive certain 
concessions such as full exemption from the Consumer Credit Act. Although not covered by 
consumer credit regulation, we acknowledge that we still have an ethical obligation to lend 
responsibly and follow the consumer credit regulations as guidance. Our lending policies are 
designed to ensure that we are treating all our members fairly, while supporting our objective 
of providing affordable credit options for individuals with a less than impeccable credit 
history. 
Commsave therefore accepts that before it lends to a borrower it should carry out a 
creditworthiness assessment of the borrower. It also accepts that as part of this assessment 
it should carry out proportionate checks to ensure that any borrower can repay the borrowing 
in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
Commsave then commented on the steps it had taken in relation to Mr Hs individual 
application, In particular, it said that it had checked Mr Hs income by asking him for a 
payslip as part of the loan application process. According to Commsave Mr H supplied his 
payslip for August 2019. Further, he told it about his total household income which included 
not just his pay but benefits he received in his household and his partners income. 
Commsave checked all of his information against the income figure Mr H had given it as part 
of his application and they matched. 
Further, Commsave says it did ask Mr H about his expenditure. It then checked that 
expenditure using third party information, that is the Standard Financial Statement guidance. 
Moreover, Commsave also did a credit check to verify that what Mr H had told it about his 
pre-existing financial commitments matched what Mr H had said in his application. It did not 
agree that Mr Hs previous borrowing history with it demonstrated that this new lending might 
be unaffordable. 
Once Commsave had verified Mr Hs income and expenditure to its own satisfaction, it then 
worked out his disposable income. This calculation showed that Mr Hs disposable income 
was sufficient to cover the repayments to the loan. Plus it was satisfied that Mr H could 
maintain these repayments in a sustainable manner.
For all of these reasons Commsave concluded it had carried out an appropriate 
creditworthiness assessment. In so far as it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was 
sustainable. As a result it did not agree it had acted inappropriately and it did not agree that 
it had to refund any interest or charges it had applied to Mr Hs account. 
Dissatisfied with Commsaves response Mr H complained to our service.
Once Mr Hs complaint was with our service he provided further information. He told us he 
did not think he provided Commsave with any bank statements to support his application. 
But if he is mistaken about this, then any such bank statements were for his partners current 
account. He told us his salary was paid into this account and all his bills such as his direct 
debits also came out of this account. He added I wasnt allowed to have any money in my 
bank by my partner because of my gambling. 
That said although Mr H told us he did not have access to money, he also told us he had a 
sole current account and a sole top-up debit card account. He would transfer money to the 
sole current account and then he would transfer that money out of this account to his top-up 
debit card account. He used the top-up debit card account and only this account for problem 
gambling.
Mr H looked at the decisions we publish on our website. He found a decision on our website 
which he thought mirrored the circumstances of his complaint and asked us to look at this 
decision. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Our investigator concluded that 
Commsaves decision to lend to Mr H was irresponsible and recommended that Commsave 
had to take action to put things right.
Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation, but Commsave did not. This in summary 
is what Commsave said about why it did not accept the recommendation.
It carried out all the checks that were required and having done so it decided the 
lending was affordable and responsible.
It did not agree that it should have carried out further checks. But it pointed out it also 
spoke to Mr H several times during the application process to verify that the 
information he provided was accurate. For example, it revised the income and 
expenditure information when Mr H told it hed split up with his partner.
Mr H provided inaccurate information to it with the intention of misleading it, 
Commsave considered therefore Mr H had committed fraud. It asked us to look at the 
bigger picture, in so far as, if we uphold Mr Hs complaint in these circumstances we 
are damaging the credit union sector. This is because we will be broadcasting to 
prospective borrowers that they can and should provide false information in the 
course of applying for credit and will be rewarded for it.
It pointed out that customers who apply to it for credit often have a less than ideal 
financial backgrounds including county court judgments and defaults. But that is not a 
reason, by itself, to decline credit. It also underlined that is often a lender of last 
resort for consumers who can obtain credit nowhere else.
It did not agree it should have seen the warning signs that Mr H was engaged in 
problem gambling because there were no warning signs to be seen.
Commsave asked that an ombudsman review Mr Hs complaint. Mr Hs complaint was sent 
to me. Having considered the available evidence, I was not minded to uphold the complaint, 
but I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms 
part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I take on board that Commsave is a credit union and therefore subject to the specialist rules 
for credit unions under the relevant rules which include the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook (the Handbook). Specifically, the Handbook contains rules that relate solely to 
credit unions. 
However, the Handbook also indicates that a credit union seeking a permission to undertake 
a credit-related regulated activity would need to comply with the requirements in the 
Consumer Credit sourcebook. Therefore whilst Commsave may be exempted from some of the legislation that protects consumers Id have expected it to follow the requirements in the 
Handbook about consumer credit lending. 
In any event Commsave indicates it has an obligation to lend responsibly and follows 
consumer credit regulation as guidance so for this reason too Id expect it to follow the rules 
in the Handbook about consumer credit lending.
Why I dont find that Commsaves checks went far enough
Mr H complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. Therefore, I need to 
consider whether Commsave carried out a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of 
Mr H before entering into the loan agreement with him. That creditworthiness assessment 
would need to be based on sufficient information. I would expect Commsave to have 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the lending was 
affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
In addition, where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider 
if the lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried 
out, I need to consider if on balance the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had 
taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
such as Commsave to consider things such as (but not limited to) the amount being 
borrowed, the term of the loan and the borrowers financial situation at the time of the 
application.
Commsave tell us that as part of the creditworthiness assessment of Mr H it asked Mr H 
about his income and expenditure. It verified and revised that information where appropriate. 
For example, it revised his income once he told it hed split up with his partner, but it appears 
from the information that Commsave have provided that this revision of his income related to 
a later loan not this one. Rather, for the purposes of this loan it used the information Mr H 
provided without revision. It also used third party sources to verify what it was told. 
It was entirely up to Commsave to decide what information it asked for. But when a 
consumer is borrowing a relatively large amount as here, I think it would be proportionate to 
verify income and expenditure by for example asking for bank statements to establish the 
actual amount of income and expenditure, rather than the likely amounts.  Moreover, given 
Mr Hs wider financial circumstances, as identified in his credit search, which I will talk more 
about below I also think it would have been proportionate to have verified Mr Hs income and 
expenditure.
Further, Commsave took account of Mr Hs partners income when assessing Mr Hs ability 
to repay. It is permitted to do this in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be 
available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement. Though as far as I can 
see Commsave did not ask anything about Mr Hs partners expenditure, so it is unclear how 
it established all of this income would be available to Mr H to make repayments under the 
agreement.
Moreover, it seems likely that Mr H withheld information about two sole accounts which he 
used to facilitate his problem gambling. Commsaves position is it is entitled to rely on the 
information Mr H supplied about his income and expenditure. Specifically, it is entitled to 
assume that it is accurate. I accept Commsaves argument here, to a degree, Commsave is 
entitled to rely on the information Mr H supplied. But that does not mean that if that 
information does not stack up it, it does not have to take things further and there are I think 
several instances here where taking a closer look at what it was told would have been 
proportionate.
Commsave has sent us the result of the credit search it did at the time Mr H applied for the 
loan. Amongst other things the credit search showed there had been 15 credit searches in 
the last 3 months and 38 within the last 12 months. He had two active county court judgements. There had been a default on one of his accounts in the last 12 months. The 
total balance of his indebtedness was around £2,500. Commsave also knew about Mr Hs 
previous borrowing from it, and it does not deny Mr Hs position that he borrowed from it in 
quick succession. But it does not seem that any of that finance was used to pay down his 
pre-existing debt. Given that Mr Hs disposable income seemed sufficient to pay down his 
pre-existing debt and meet the new repayments, there was no reasonable explanation for 
what had happened to that previous lending. 
On the face taken together this behaviour demonstrated Mr H was credit hungry and was 
having some difficulty managing his pre-existing financial commitments which contradicted 
the picture Mr H had painted about his income and expenditure.  I recognise that some of 
Commsaves customer base may well have less than ideal financial backgrounds, but in the 
circumstances Mr Hs financial situation suggested all was not as he said it was.
For all of these reasons I think Commsaves checks were not reasonable or proportionate, 
and Commsave ought reasonably to have gone further.
New membership number
Ive not gone into detail about the fact that Mr H used a new membership number to borrow 
in August 2019, because I cant see what difference this would have made. I say this 
because the credit search shows that Commsave had access to information about Mr Hs 
financial history both with it and with third party lenders. So it does not seem that by applying 
for the loan using a new membership number Mr H was able to conceal his previous 
financial history.
What difference would it have made if reasonable and proportionate checks had been done?
Ill now look at if on balance the loan wouldve been approved if reasonable and 
proportionate checks had taken place. 
Commsave chose not to ask for bank statements. If it had asked for bank statements to 
demonstrate income and expenditure, Mr H says it would have found that the account he 
paid his salary into and which he used to pay his bills was his partners account. But he has 
not told us or demonstrated that the information about his income and expenditure that he 
gave to Commsave was incorrect. Therefore even, if Commsave had asked to see 
statements for this account, it would not, on balance, have shown that he could not afford to 
borrow from it.
That said, I have no reason to doubt Mr H when he says the account he used for day to day 
living was his partners sole account. The credit search showed Mr H also had a sole current 
account. But just because Mr H had this sole current account does not mean in the 
circumstances, Commsave might reasonably have asked to see statements from that 
account too.  I say this because the credit search does not show what was happening with 
this account. It does not show that Mr H was transferring money from this account to the top-
up debit card account. Rather the credit report indicated Mr H was not using this account.
In addition it seems that Mr Hs top-up debit card account was a pre-paid debit card account 
which does not seem to appear on the credit search. So I would not have expected 
Commsave to have known of its existence. 
Further, in order to demonstrate that the lending was unaffordable I would need to see 
statements for Mr Hs former partners account too. Because in order to uphold this part of 
Mr Hs complaint Id need to be satisfied that there was information in the statements that 
indicated the lending was unaffordable. Mr H is no longer with his former partner and 
therefore it seems doubtful he will be able to provide copies of these statements.
For all of these individual reasons, on balance Ive no proper basis for finding that most likely 
the lending was unaffordable.
Why I dont find that the lending was irresponsibleMr H does not only complain that the lending was unaffordable he also complains it was 
irresponsible. In particular, Mr H tells us he was engaged in problem gambling when he 
applied to Commsave for the loan. He indicates he was a vulnerable consumer by reason of 
this problem gambling. A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal 
circumstances, is especially susceptible to harm, particularly when a financial business is not 
acting with appropriate levels of care. Therefore Mr H says Commsave acted irresponsibly in 
lending to him.
Regulated financial businesses are expected to provide their customers with a level of care 
that is appropriate given the characteristics of the customers themselves. The level of care 
that is appropriate for vulnerable consumers may be different from that for others and 
financial businesses should take particular care to ensure they are treated fairly. Therefore I 
have to consider if Commsave did act fairly taking into account Mr Hs vulnerability due to his 
problem gambling.
Mr H tells us the lending was irresponsible as he used all of the money he borrowed for 
problem gambling. However, as Ive already mentioned, it appears that Mr H used his pre-
paid debit card account for his gambling transactions and no other account. That account 
does show evidence of daily gambling transactions that rapidly emptied the account, both 
before and after the August 2019 loan. But as Ive already mentioned Ive not seen details of 
this account on the credit search. Neither has Mr H said he disclosed this account to 
Commsave. So as I have previously mentioned I cant see how Commsave would have 
known about this account.
Mr H explains he took care to hide his gambling from his partner so there are no gambling 
transactions on the account he appeared to share with her. Moreover, no gambling 
transactions appear on the sole current account statements.  So if Commsave had checked 
the statements for these accounts it would not have found gambling transactions never mind 
gambling transactions that suggested Mr H was engaged in problem gambling.
That said common warning signs that someone may have a gambling problem can include 
borrowing money on a regular basis which is something Commsave did know about and 
moving the money from account to account. This pattern of behaviour can also be indicative 
of someone whose financial situation is finely balanced. In other words the only way I think 
Commsave could have found out about Mr Hs problem gambling is if it had looked 
forensically at all of his accounts and if it had had access to the statements for the top up 
debit card account. And I dont find it is reasonable to say Commsave acted unfairly because 
it did not require information about all of Mr Hs accounts especially the sole current account. 
Moreover, I cant see how Commsave would have been able to ask for statements for the 
top-up debit card account when it would not have known it existed.
On balance based on what Commsave could reasonably have found out at the time I dont 
agree it ought reasonably have been aware of Mr Hs problem gambling and therefore acted 
irresponsibly in lending to him.
Did Commsave set out to trap Mr H and did it let him down with its customer service
I dont see anything to suggest that Commsave set out to trap Mr H in relation to this loan. 
Neither have I seen anything that suggests Commsaves customer service fell below the 
level Mr H was entitled to expect. 
Moreover Mr H complains that Commsave will not now lend to him, and this has contributed 
to his upset. Mr H complains that Commsave ought not to have lent to him in August 2019 
therefore it seems inconsistent to also complain that Commsave subsequently would not 
lend to him. It follows I dont uphold these parts of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H has asked that I look at the decision he mentioned. But I am not bound by my 
colleagues decision in that complaint, because ombudsmens decisions are not binding precedents in the way that the courts decisions are. I am required to form my own view of 
this complaint, rather than to follow the views of others in other complaints.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Both Mr H and Commsave responded to my provisional decision. Mr H expressed 
disappointment with the outcome. He also indicated we need not send him a final decision if 
it was going to be the same outcome as the provisional decision. Mr H appeared to reject the 
provisional decision. Commsave accepted the provisional decision and indicated it had 
nothing further to say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr H and Commsave for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive reviewed 
the file again and revisited my provisional decision. As I have received no new information or 
arguments in response to my provisional decision it follows that Ive reached the same 
conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision which forms part of 
this final decision.
I recognise Mr H suggested we ought not to send him a final decision if it was going to be 
the same outcome as the provisional decision. However, Mr H has not withdrawn his 
complaint. Therefore in order to bring his complaint properly to a close I had to issue this 
final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman