DRN-1998727
The complaint
Mr H complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H was given a SafetyNet credit facility in December 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit provided to Mr H in December 2018 was £200. SNC has told us the 
limit had increased to £920 by November 2019. I understand Mr H has been able to repay 
the facility.  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint. She thought the facility shouldnt have 
been given to Mr H as the facilitys minimum payments were unaffordable for him as his 
expenditure exceeded his income. The adjudicator said the facility should be reworked so 
that no interest, fees or charges would be paid by Mr H, with any overpayments refunded 
together with simple interest of 8% per annum. The adjudicator also said that any adverse 
information about the facility should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 
Mr H appears to have agreed with the adjudicators assessment.
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. SNC says that based on their review and 
calculations Mr H had a disposable income of around £580 per month. So, it considers that 
the facility was affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
the regulations in place when Mr H was given the SafetyNet facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr H this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory 
rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation as well as the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an  open-
end agreement (like Mr Hs Safety Net facility), to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in 
mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
.
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
The guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did require its 
checks to be proportionate. And any checks had to consider a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, 
the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on 
the lending.
 
SNC was also required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably make his repayments  
not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr H could sustainably 
make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. There may be 
situations for example where consumers have shown signs of financial difficulty, calling into 
question their ability to sustain repayments. 
CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, would be 
intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like: 
The following matters, among others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be 
aware, may indicate that a customer is in financial difficulties;
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where there 
is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer having to 
borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to meet repayments 
of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to seeking debt 
counselling.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to do before 
agreeing to Mr Hs SafetyNet facility.
 
what happened when the facility was granted
SNC says it reviewed Mr Hs bank transaction data prior to the facility being approved. SNC 
has provided a copy of the statements that it saw, and in this case, it seems SNC had 
access to the previous 12 months worth of data. It considered what it saw in the bank 
statements together with the results of the credit checks. Having done so, SNC was satisfied 
Mr H wasnt having trouble meeting his existing commitments and would be able to maintain 
the facility he was offered.
Looking at Mr Hs statements I can see his monthly salary over the 90 days before the 
facility was provided averaged around £1,250 per month. SNC has suggested Mr Hs salary 
was around £929 but this isnt reflected in the information it has provided.
From what I can see, Mr H had regular monthly expenditure of at least around £2,000. 
SNCs own calculation of around £1,130 doesnt seem to reflect the regular outgoings that 
Mr H needed to pay. I can see from Mr Hs statements he was making regular payments for 
council tax, utilities, credit commitments, food, insurance, telephone, his car and to his bank 
(including mortgage payments). 
I think it is reasonable to consider these as regular payments as they were consistently paid 
over a 90 day period before the facility was granted. I agree with our adjudicator therefore 
that its unlikely Mr H was able to afford any repayments when also considering his apparent 
reliance on short-term loans and an income of around £1,250. 
 
Ive also not seen other regular income that I think suggests Mr H could afford the facility 
sustainably. As the adjudicator has pointed out, there are some other transfers in and out of 
the account, which in addition to his salary, do appear to increase his overall income. But the 
increase still leaves a shortfall of over £300 between Mr Hs regular expenditure and income.
And as Ive said, Mr H appears to have been reliant on other short-term lenders in order to 
manage his money. He made payments to three short-term lenders in the 90 days prior to 
the facility being granted which suggests he was having problems managing his money. Mr 
H also appears to have received some incoming credits from a credit union, but these dont 
appear to have been regular payments that could reasonably be considered as part of his 
regular income. 
In addition to this, the bank statements SNC considered show quite a number of returned 
direct debits, including three in the week before the facility was granted. I think this was a 
clear indication that Mr H was in financial difficulties as he was unable to meet his other 
repayments when they were due. Which, as CONC 1.3 (4) points out, is a sign that a 
customer could be having financial difficulties. 
Looking at all of this together, I think that Mr Hs circumstances suggested that he was 
struggling to maintain control of his finances. I think this is something that SNC ought 
reasonably to have been aware of through his bank statements. As a result, there was a 
clear risk that the facility wasnt going to be repaid in an affordable and sustainable manner.  
I dont think therefore that SNC should have granted the facility. It therefore follows when 
putting things right for Mr H that he shouldnt have been charged any interest on the facility.  Putting things right
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns
taken from 16 December 2018.
B. Treat all payments Mr H has made towards his account since 16 December 2018
as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Mr H would have been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, you will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the refund is 
made.
D. If there is an outstanding principal balance, then you can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance still remains after this then you should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. If you have previously written-off any 
principal, then you shouldnt pursue
E. You should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
from 16 December 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman