DRN-1659222
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, have rejected a claim 
he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and that a chargeback request 
was unsuccessful.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules.
What this means here is that Barclaycard can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to
be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant.
But the chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the request the
bank submits.
There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id
consider it to be good practice for Barclaycard to raise a chargeback if it would have a good
chance of being successful.
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Barclaycard  or me  to
decide whether Mr G should be given his money back under a chargeback. Barclaycards
role is to raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed defence complies
with the relevant chargeback rules. 
From what Ive seen, thats what Barclaycard did here.
The merchant disputed the chargeback and where thats the case a bank doesnt have to
carry out a detailed investigation into what actually happened to decide which party deserves
the money. In fact, most banks wont take a chargeback any further if its defended and
thats what Barclaycard did here so I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest they did
anything wrong.
section 75
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr G made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not persuaded an offer of a free laptop, phone and software was offered by the 
merchant. So, Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I say that for the following reasons:
the cost of the high specification phone, a laptop and software would be in the region 
of £1,500 to £2,000. I dont think a reasonable person would expect these to be 
supplied free of charge in addition to the on-line leaning modules the course provided 
access to;
Ive looked on line and cant find evidence of similar complaints against this merchant 
relating to offers of laptops, phones and software that werent provided. I think that 
would have been the case had this been regular malpractice;
the merchant has explained that the call Mr G referred to did not mention the 
provision of free devices and software;
the merchant has provided their standard correspondence templates and they dont 
include the wording relating to free devices and software but do contain the other 
wording;
reviews of the merchant on line are generally positive;
Mr G didnt initially provide the correspondence that suggests free devices and 
software were being offered. Barclaycards contact notes show that he suggested he 
didnt have evidence to support his claim. I think, had that information been available 
initially, Mr G would have been very likely to have mentioned it;
the merchants course detail doesnt explain that these devices will be provided with 
the course.
So, Im not persuaded there is sufficient information that the merchant did offer free devices 
and software and, as it seems Mr G has had access to the online course he paid for, I cant 
say there is evidence of misrepresentation or breach of contract and I dont think 
Barclaycard were wrong to reject Mr Gs claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman