DRN-3810936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under their Landlord insurance policy.
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents. 
As Mr D is leading on this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout my decision. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mr D has a Landlord insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. 
In December 2021, he logged a claim for damage to his propertys roof which he said 
occurred following a storm in late November 2021.
Mr D says UKI told him he could arrange for a contractor to complete the repair 
works but that hed need to supply photographs of the damage  which he did.
UKI looked at these along with satellite pictures of the propertys roof. 
UKI declined the claim stating there hadnt been a storm at the time the damage 
occurred, and because the damage was due to initial poor workmanship and general 
wear and tear which was excluded under the policy.
But because it hadnt progressed the claim as quickly as it should have, UKI offered 
£200 compensation.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator was satisfied there were storm conditions when the damage 
occurred, but she wasnt persuaded the storm was the main cause of damage  so 
she said UKI had declined the claim fairly.
Mr D disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulator which includes insurers 
must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a claim. I have 
considered whether UKI dealt with Mr Ds claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
When considering complaints about storm damage, there are three criteria which must be 
satisfied for this Service to consider there to have been a valid claim. First, is whether there 
were storm conditions at the time the damage is said to have occurred. Second, is whether 
the damage is consistent with that caused by a storm. Third, is whether the storm was the 
main cause of damage. 
Here, the policy doesnt define a storm, but UKI has said there wasnt one at the date of 
loss. However, our Investigator explained local weather reports showed windspeeds 
reaching 61mph were present at the time. UKI hasnt challenged this finding. And from the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied there were storm conditions, so, Ive gone on to consider 
whether the damage is consistent with that caused by a storm. 
Mr D said the lead flashing on his roof lifted because of the storm and Im persuaded this 
type of damage could be caused by a storm. 
The issue this complaint hinges on is whether the storm was the main cause of damage  
from what Ive seen Im not persuaded it was. Ive looked at the photographs provided by   
Mr Ds contractor and the satellite picture provided by UKI. Both photographs show the lead 
flashing having lifted, but notably UKIs photograph is dated October 2021. As this is before 
the damage was said to have occurred, Im more persuaded the storm merely highlighted an 
existing issue with the roof, rather than being the main cause of damage.
A general condition of the policy is that the insured must take reasonable precautions to 
mitigate loss and damage, and this includes maintaining the premises in a good state of 
repair. As the issue with the roof appears to be because of gradual wear and tear, Im 
satisfied UKI has declined Mr Ds claim for storm damage fairly. 
I understand Mr D feels strongly that UKI told him he could arrange for the repairs to be 
completed and that it said it would cover this, but I havent been provided with evidence to 
support this. But even if it had, I wouldnt expect UKI to step in to cover works that were 
never covered by the policy, and particularly when it seems Mr D wouldve needed to have 
carried out these repairs in any case.
Accidental cause
The policy schedule appears to show Mr D had accidental cause cover in respect of the 
property in question. So, Ive considered whether he would have recourse under this section. 
But as the need to keep the property maintained is a general condition of the policy, Im not 
persuaded he has cover under this section either. In any case, the circumstances of this 
claim do not appear to meet the requirements of an accidental cause given they appear to 
have occurred because of the existing condition of the roof. And Im not persuaded this 
would be unexpected.
Compensation 
UKI has paid Mr D £200 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced because of it not progressing his claim in a timely manner, and for failing to 
return his calls. I agree Mr D has no doubt had to spend additional time chasing the matter 
up. But having considered everything, Im satisfied £200 reflects the difficulties hes 
experienced and so I wont be asking UKI to increase the compensation. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman