DRN-3200008
The complaint
Mrs L complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) is not of satisfactory quality and was mis-sold to her.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint TFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
This was a new car and I think Mrs L could have a reasonable expectation that the battery 
performance would be in line with the manufacturers guidance given in the user manual. 
Mrs L has provided a copy of that guidance which says:
if the vehicle is left parked for a long time the hybrid battery (traction battery) will slowly 
discharge. For this reason, be sure to drive the vehicle at least once every few months for at 
least 30 minutes or 16km
The dealership are saying that, despite their assessment that the battery is working 
perfectly:
we would advise the vehicle is used as often as possible but no less than 3/4 times a 
week for at least 10/15miles on each occasion to reduce the risk of reliability issues with the 
battery.
I think that suggests the battery isnt performing as the manufacturer stated it would and that 
means either the car was misrepresented to Mrs L as the literature (the user manual) made 
a false statement of fact, or the car is of unsatisfactory quality as the battery isnt performing 
to the standard stated in the manufacturers user manual.
The relevant legislation explains that if a consumer is given a false statement of fact that 
leads them to enter into an agreement they wouldnt otherwise have entered into, we should 
consider the agreement was misrepresented. Here, I think the agreement has probably been 
misrepresented. Ive not seen evidence that Mrs L was informed about the need to drive the 
car so frequently; I dont accept for instance that the Demands and Needs document 
explains that issue. I can see that Mrs Ls contract allowed her to drive 8,000 miles a year, 
but I dont think thats an acceptance that Mrs L would be driving the car three or four times a 
week. I accept Mrs Ls testimony that she was aiming to use the car sparingly and I think her 
request to now reject the car suggests if she had been aware, of the need to drive it so 
frequently, she wouldnt have entered into the agreement in the first place.
  
Putting things right
When an agreement has been misrepresented we try to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been in had the misrepresentation not taken place. 
So, I think TFS should take the car back, end the agreement and refund Mrs Ls deposit. 
Theyll need to add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mrs L has been deprived of that 
money. 
Its only fair that Mrs L pays for any use shes had from the car and I dont think the battery 
issues have caused a loss of use so I think its fair for TFS to retain all of the finance 
instalments Mrs L has paid towards her agreement.
I think its clear Mrs L has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to contest the 
point with the dealership, return her car to them and escalate her complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think TFS should 
pay her £150 compensation.
Mrs L has explained that used car prices have appreciated and shes concerned that this 
settlement will put TFS in a better financial position. Im not persuaded that if that was right it 
would change the redress Im ordering as I think it still puts Mrs L, as far as possible, back in 
the position she would have been in.
Mrs L has also asked me to consider that its in TFSs interest to delay settling this issue. I 
understand Mrs Ls concern and if there are undue delays in settling the matter Mrs L would 
be able to raise a further complaint with TFS and, if she remained dissatisfied, could refer 
that complaint to this service. I dont think its likely that there will be excessive delays as, 
thats not been our experience in previous dealings with TFS and any delays will of course 
mean the interest TFS are paying on the deposit is increasing.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) Plc to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs L;
refund Mrs Ls deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ls credit file in relation to 
this issue;pay Mrs L £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman