DRN-4272466
The complaint
Mr I complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC handled his disputed transaction 
claim.
What happened
Mr I purchased a flight ticket from a merchant and paid using his Lloyds debit card. The cost 
of the ticket was £597.84. The flight was scheduled to depart on 18 August 2022.
Mr I says that he checked in online for the flight on 17 August 2022.
On 18 August 2022 Mr I travelled to the airport. When he arrived at the airlines check in 
desk, he presented his travel documents and vaccination certificate. The check in agent 
advised Mr I that his baggage exceeded the weight limit. Mr I says that he was told by the 
agent that he would need to get on the next flight, which was later that day.
Mr I went to the ticket office to change his ticket but the ticket agent said it wasnt possible to 
change the ticket because it had been purchased through a third party.
Mr I called the merchant but says his request to change his ticket was refused. Mr I asked 
for a refund but the merchant refused on the grounds that Mr I had been a no show for the 
original flight.
Mr I went online and purchased a ticket with a different airline at a cost of £474.45. He 
checked in online and was directed to another page where he obtained a health declaration 
certificate and subsequently boarded the flight and completed his journey.
In September 2022 Mr I raised a disputed transaction claim with Lloyds for £587.84. Lloyds 
applied a temporary credit to Mr Is account and began an investigation. The merchant 
disputed the claim. It said it hadnt received a request from Mr I to change or cancel the flight 
and said the flight had operated as scheduled.
Lloyds reviewed the information and decided that the refund request was invalid. It re-
debited Mr Is account.
Mr I complained to Lloyds about the service hed received. In its final response, Lloyds said it 
wasnt changing its decision and that it didnt agree that it had provided poor service in 
connection with the disputed transaction claim.
Mr I remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were satisfied that Lloyds had 
handled the disputed transaction claim fairly and reasonably.
Mr I didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the complaint 
against the list of possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required. This 
is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for the customer. Card 
issuers dont have to submit claims, and they will only do so if they believe they have 
evidence that will support a chargeback claim so that it will be successful. This service 
expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a chargeback if 
there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Mr Is request to raise a chargeback to see whether or not Lloyd acted 
reasonably when it declined the chargeback.
Theres no information from the airline to confirm exactly why Mr I didnt board the flight. 
However, I dont think the reason for Mr I not boarding the original flight matters here. 
Irrespective of whether there was a problem with Mr Is baggage, or his vaccination 
certificate, this isnt something that the merchant who sold the flight ticket is responsible for. 
Its an issue between Mr I and the airline.
Ive reviewed the information provided by the merchant. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the merchant provided Mr I with a valid ticket for his chosen flight. Im also 
satisfied that the flight operated as scheduled. So Im unable to say that the merchant didnt 
provide the goods or services that it agreed to provided when Mr I purchased his ticket.
The merchants terms and conditions set out the refund and cancellation policy. Mr I agreed 
to these terms and conditions when he purchased the ticket. Looking at the circumstances 
under which Mr I didnt board his flight, I dont think he wouldve been entitled to a refund 
under the terms and conditions.
Taking all the available information into account, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined the chargeback claim, because the evidence showed that the 
chargeback had little or no prospect of success.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman