DRN-4294413
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs C are unhappy a claim made under their Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) 
building warranty has been declined.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs C purchased two flats in a converted building which came with a ten-year 
building warranty underwritten by Amtrust. There are eight flats in the converted building.
Damage has been caused to the cornice on the parapet on the outside of the building, which 
is deemed a retained area and not the sole responsibility of Mr R and Mrs C. Mr R and 
Mrs C pay a service charge as part of their lease agreement, and it appears that in 
exchange for paying the service charge, the landlord/freeholder is responsible for, amongst 
other things, the retained parts.
As the area in question isnt just the responsibility of Mr R and Mrs C, it is likely the damage 
and cost to repair will impact the other leaseholders and landlord. But Mr R and Mrs C 
logged their own individual claim and complaint with Amtrust. And Amtrust considered their 
claim and complaint individually and gave them their own complaint final response. So, 
under this case, Im also only considering Mr R and Mrs C claim and complaint and 
Amtrusts decision to decline their claim.
Mr R and Mrs C made a claim to Amtrust for severe rotting of the wooden cornice externally, 
covering where the walls joined the roof of the building on the parapet. 
Amtrust ultimately declined the claim. They said the rot was historic and had been 
happening over a considerable number of years, pre-dating the conversion of the building, 
and as it wasnt installed as part of the conversion, they said it isnt covered by the building 
warranty.  Amtrust also said the area in question didnt form part of the structure, or 
waterproof envelope as defined in the policy, so they said there was no cover under the 
policy on this basis either.
Mr R and Mrs C didnt agree and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She first considered 
whether there had been a defect as defined in relation to the cornice. But she didnt think 
there was.
The investigator said even if there was a defect as defined - which she didnt think there was 
 it would also need to be part of the structure or waterproof envelope for a claim to be 
made. However, the investigator didnt think the cornice formed part of this either. So, she 
said Amtrust hadnt acted unreasonably by declining the claim.
Mr R and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr R and Mrs C, 
Im not upholding their complaint.
Firstly, Mr R and Mrs C have asked for the view of this service more generally on this type of 
policy, the cover it provides, along with the builder carrying out construction, processes for 
signing off the property and the policy being issued. But to clarify, that is not the role of this 
service. We dont provide guidance on suitably of policies either individually or in comparison 
to others, or the cover available across the market, or what general processes are or should 
be undertaken in order for the property to be constructed or signed off. Instead, our role is to 
consider individual complaints. So here, Im considering Amtrusts decision and reasons to 
decline Mr R and Mrs Cs claim alongside the warranty policy terms and conditions, and 
what is fair and reasonable.
Ill also explain that I dont intend on commenting on every argument that has been 
presented by both parties. I dont mean this as a discourtesy, instead this reflects the 
informal nature of this service and my role within it. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider is 
key in reaching a decision which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. To expand 
on this point, our investigator considered whether there was a defect, which she didnt think 
there was. She then went on to say, even if there was, the claim still wouldnt be covered as 
she didnt think it fell within the policy cover of major damage in any event.
I dont intend to comment on both points as I dont need to in order to reach a final decision 
on whether the claim has been fairly declined by Amtrust. Instead, Im going to focus on 
whether the claim falls within major damage, because regardless of whether there is a defect 
or not, if its not Major damage, then the claim isnt covered even if it is considered a defect 
as defined. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information and 
arguments theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
Mr R and Mrs C have made various arguments about why they consider the cornice has a 
defect, this includes how the policy terms are laid out and where the definitions are found. 
This also includes where words are included in bold, and where they arent. They say these 
arguments support their position that there is a defect.
But regardless of the various arguments made about whether there is a defect, I dont think 
thats important in determining whether Amtrust should deal with the claim. I say this 
because I dont think the claim succeeds on the basis of the other requirements in the terms 
in any event. Ill explain why.The claim was made in years three to ten of the policy so the cover that applies is 
section 3.3. The policy terms outline (Ive included the relevant part):
SECTION 3.3
STRUCTURAL INSURANCE
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and 
notified to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
i) the cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing 
Unit which has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the 
liability of the Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of 
rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification;
So, this outlines that for claims under section 3.3, there needs to be Major Damage.
Major Damage is defined as:
MAJOR DAMAGE
i) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for 
which a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter;
ii) A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction 
of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter;
In either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components 
of:
the Structure; or
the waterproof elements of the Waterproof Envelope;
which is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
For the purposes of this Policy the definition of Major Damage is deemed to include any 
physical loss, destruction or damage to the Housing Unit caused by contamination or 
pollution as a direct consequence of a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components of the Structure of the Housing Unit. 
So, this outlines that there needs to be a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components. And this needs to be either to the structure or waterproof elements of the 
waterproof envelope. Both parts are required i.e. point i) and ii) need to be caused by a 
defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of either of the bullet points (as 
defined). Points i) and ii) arent independent of the rest of the requirements outlined.Structure is defined as:
STRUCTURE
The following elements shall comprise the Structure of a Housing Unit:
foundations
load-bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and associated guard rails, 
walls and roofs, together with load-bearing retaining walls necessary for 
stability;
non-load bearing partition walls;
chimneys and flues;
roof covering;
any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water 
tightness of the external envelope;
floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads; 
wet applied plaster; 
double or triple glazed panes to external windows and doors;
underground drainage that the Policyholder is responsible for maintaining.
However, I dont think the cornice falls within the listed items above. This is because it is an 
aesthetic feature to hide where the walls join the roof on the parapet, rather than being the 
roof or wall itself, it doesnt perform a function and is decorative. And the roof covering would 
be things like tiles, slates or waterproof membrane etc, which again the cornice isnt, its 
decorative and doesnt have any other function. 
There also isnt anything to show that it is necessary for the water tightness of the external 
envelope, as it is cosmetic to hide the join between the walls and the roof, rather than to 
prevent water ingress.
Therefore, I dont think the cornice falls under bullet point one of the requirements, the 
Structure, under Major damage, regardless of whether it has a defect (as defined) or not. So, 
the claim wouldnt succeed under this point.
Bullet point two also says a requirement is that there needs to be a defect in the design, 
workmanship, material or components of the waterproof elements of the Waterproof 
Envelope. 
Waterproof envelope is defined as:
WATERPOOF ENVELOPE
Waterproof Envelope shall mean the basement, ground floors, external walls, roofs 
skylights, windows and doors of a Housing Unit.
I dont think the cornice is part of the roof as outlined above. Instead, it is a 
cosmetic/aesthetic feature fixed to the outer face of the wall to hide the join between the wall 
and the roof. And whilst the membrane, which is the weatherproofing, is lapped over the 
cornice/parapet for ease of application, based on the evidence provided, the cornice itself 
isnt necessary for the water tightness of the waterproof envelope.Therefore, whilst I note Mr S and Mrs Cs arguments, Im satisfied there hasnt been 
Major damage, as defined by the policy. Therefore, I havent gone on to consider whether 
there is a defect because that alone, in the absence of Major damage, isnt enough for a 
claim to succeed. With this in mind, I dont think Amtrust has acted unfairly by declining 
Mr R and Mrs Cs claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman