DRN-3054514
Complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the redress she has received from Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading at 
the time as Yorkshire Bank.
Its not disputed Mrs F was mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) with a credit card in 
the late 1980s but she thinks she is due more money back. 
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Clydesdale.
Background
I see that one of our adjudicators has separated out Mrs Fs PPI complaints. This is because 
they related to some joint accounts she had with her husband, and also to some other 
financial products with PPI attached, such as personal loans.
To be clear, in this decision, Im looking only into Mrs Fs credit card ending 1234.
An adjudicator said that they thought we shouldnt uphold the complaint because the redress 
paid out for the mis-sold PPI on this credit card didnt appear to be wrong. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having done this, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F but Im not upholding this complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt that Mrs F has genuine suspicions that 
the redress she is due should be higher than what she actually got. I can also see shes had 
to endure a difficult time in getting the business to understand all her complaints and give 
her the right information. I dont think Clydesdale has handled her complaints very well  Mrs 
F has been given incorrect information more than once and generally a poor customer 
experience. I completely accept this must have been distressing and inconvenient at times.  
Nevertheless, in addressing the issue of her credit card, I need to de-couple this from all the 
other things shes unhappy about. I also think its reasonable to point out that whilst 
Clydesdale could and should have done better  these events were a long time ago. It looks, 
for example, that her card account goes back to the late 1980s and also it was closed 
around 1990. So, its fair to remember this context: these events were well over 30 years 
ago and businesses arent required to keep every record for this length of time. And 
although, somewhat surprisingly, we do seem to have many records still available in this 
case, much of it will Im sure have been archived and required researching.
I say this only because a large part of Mrs Fs dissatisfaction here relates to her initially 
being told the wrong things such as the PPI not being traceable on her card account. 
Perhaps not unexpectedly, she views this as evasiveness on behalf of Clydesdale and an 
attempt to not pay what shes due. However, in my experience, we do see many cases 
where old accounts present similar challenges for businesses.
So, deconstructing the transaction data from so long ago presents obvious challenges. The 
question for me is did Clydesdale pay Mrs F correctly all the PPI redress she is due on her 
credit card? As our adjudicator concluded, I too think it did pay the right amount. Mrs F didnt 
have the card with the PPI on it for that long, so the PPI redress was fairly modest. From 
what I can see Clydesdale has done, it has added up what she paid for PPI and added 
interest in the way we normally expect. The calculations look correct.
This was explained in detail by our adjudicator and I note Mrs F has since replied saying she 
isnt happy. Ive taken a very careful note of what she has said. Once again, I sympathise 
with the problems shes endured but I note two things. The first is that her response includes 
an overall / general dissatisfaction with her numerous complaints, rather than her credit card 
in particular. However, Clydesdale has already acknowledged this and offered a goodwill 
gesture and apologised to Mrs F. I also note Mrs F herself cannot specifically say on what 
grounds the credit card (ending 1234) redress is incorrect.
On the basis that the calculations appear to me to be in accordance with our approach, Im 
afraid I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint about her card account. I also think the apology and 
goodwill payment is reasonable in the circumstances.
Im sorry again to disappoint Mrs F.
Final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
I do not direct Clydesdale Bank PLC to do anything more as regards the credit card account 
ending 1234.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman