DRN-3320479
The complaint
Mr J complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded, as well as any negative information 
removed from his credit file.
What happened
In October 2019 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £6,008.30 for Mr J, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £345 per month over a term of 36 months. The 
loan was intended to consolidate debt. When assessing the application, Everyday 
Loans asked Mr J about his financial circumstances; reviewed pay slips and bank 
statements; and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Everyday Loans didnt do 
anything wrong when it granted this loan. Mr J disagreed, although he didnt explain 
why, and asked an ombudsman to look at his case.
There was an earlier loan granted to Mr J by Everyday Loans, which has already 
been resolved. So this decision will only be considering the loan from 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, broadly for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator.
Mr J hasnt said why he disagreed with the adjudicators view, but I will explain why I think 
it was OK of Everyday Loans to lend this money, on the premise that the borrowing would 
be affordable and sustainable for Mr J.
I need to first look at what information Everyday Loans had when considering Mr Js 
loan application, and then what information it should have gathered, given what it 
knew about Mr J and his circumstances. If I think it should have gathered more 
information, to carry out more in-depth checks, Ill go on to consider whether more 
information ought to have led it to conclude that the borrowing was not sustainable for 
Mr J.
Did Everyday Loans checks go far enough?
Everyday Loans asked Mr J about his income and expenditure, and indeed broader 
financial circumstances. (In fact, the contact notes suggest several fairly in-depth 
conversations.) He disclosed monthly earnings of £1,550 and outgoings of around £1,300. 
Those outgoings were broken down into several categories, including housing costs, 
general living expenses, and amounts needed to service other debts. £445 of Mr Js 
declared outgoings came under this final category. So, based on what Mr J told it about 
his financial situation, Everyday Loans was well aware that his calculated disposable 
income of around £285 was lower than the proposed repayment of this loan  by about 
£60. The credit check it carried out showed Everyday Loans that Mr J had provided an 
accurate picture of his debts. In fact, I can see a detailed assessment on the application 
file of each of his debts at the time, showing settlement figures and monthly repayments.
But the reason behind the detailed review of his debts at the time was that this loan was 
intended to consolidate a significant proportion of those debts and so make his monthly 
outgoings more manageable. So whilst a superficial look at income and expenditure at the 
point of application might flag concerns, in fact, Everyday Loans documented which of Mr 
Js debts were to be consolidated with this loan, and how that would impact on his 
monthly expenditure.
The adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans ought to have got more information, mostly 
because of concerns that the pay slip it reviewed may well have been an anomaly  and 
so made Mr Js income look higher than it actually was. Whilst Everyday Loans reviewed 
two months worth of bank statements, the adjudicator thought that further bank 
statements or pay slips ought to have been sought.
Noting county court judgements (CCJs) showing on Mr Js credit file, I agree that more in-
depth checks may have been more proportionate to the situation.
But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold the complaint. I need to go on to 
consider what any additional information would have shown.
Would more in-depth checks have shown anything different?
Everyday Loans could have gathered more information in a range of ways, but Mr J has 
been able to supply us with some pages from bank statements, along with a couple of 
additional payslips. So Ive looked at those to see whether there is anything they reveal 
which should have suggested to Everyday Loans that this borrowing was not affordable 
and sustainable for Mr J.
In short, there isnt. The bank statements show a well-managed current account with no 
evidence of a problematic dependence on borrowing. There is no evidence that he needed 
more money than Everyday Loans had accounted for to service debts. Or that his monthly 
outgoings were significantly higher than Everyday Loans income and expenditure (I&E) 
had estimated. The pay slips dont suggest that the income with which Everyday Loans 
was assessing the application was substantially inaccurate.
Essentially theres no evidence that additional information would have shown Everyday 
Loans a different picture. And so, for the following reasons, I cant conclude that its 
decision to grant the loan was wrong:
As already mentioned, Mr Js credit file showed several CCJs. But by the time he 
applied for this loan, those problems were sufficiently historic to mean that they 
wouldnt automatically lead to a need to decline the application. And they had 
been settled by this point.
Mr J had managed his earlier loan with Everyday Loans with no difficulties.
The calculations done through the I&E appear to be sound, and it was reasonable 
for Everyday Loans to be satisfied that providing this loan would leave Mr J with a 
higher disposable income of around £340, as a result of reducing his monthly 
repayment bill.So, based on the available evidence, I cannot reach a finding that Everyday Loans ought 
to have identified that this borrowing would not be sustainable for Mr J when it assessed 
his application. It therefore follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Everyday Loans doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman