DRN-4268399
The complaint
Miss J complains about problems with a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Motonovo Finance Limited  (Motonovo) . She would like to reject it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that there is an issue with the gearbox on Miss Js car. Motonovo 
accepted our investigators recommendation that a repair was appropriate with 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and a refund of payments from 
February 2023. Miss J would still prefer to reject the car and would also like travel 
costs refunded.
Miss J has now told us she has had further problems with the car but from the 
information  supplied I agree with our investigator that the latest information confirms 
the problem with the gearbox which Motonovo has already agreed to cover the cost 
of repair. I dont think Miss J has provided any new information about the car that 
makes me feel that rejection is now appropriate
Miss J feels she is also entitled to reject the car now due to the time taken to resolve 
her complaint. Its unfortunate but when issues arise it can take some time to 
investigate these and reach a resolution. it doesnt seem to me that Motonovo has 
unreasonably delayed dealing with Miss Js complaint. When issues arise more than 
six months into an agreement, as is the case here, the onus is on the consumer to 
show a fault with the car. I dont think it was unreasonable for Motonovo to ask for an 
independent report. Motonovo also promptly accepted our investigators initial  
recommendations in July 2023 and a subsequent increase in compensation in 
response to Miss Js representations.
I have considered the travel costs Miss J would also like refunded. I cant reasonably 
ask Motonovo to refund these. Motonovo has accepted our investigators 
recommendation of a full refund of Miss Js payments with 8% simple interest from 
February 2023 until the repair is completed. And it has also agreed to increased 
compensation for distress and  any inconvenience caused. It wouldnt be fair in effect 
to double refund Miss J  by covering travel costs as well. Miss J has referred to some 
of our guidance and to some legal advice she has been given. We look at complaints 
individually  taking into account all the relevant factors of each complaint. We 
consider guidance and relevant law but ultimately make findings based on what is 
reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Motonovo Finance  Limited should :-
Cover the cost of repairs to the gearbox based on the quote provided of £2,735.71 
and on proof the work has been carried out
Refund Miss Js payments from February 2023 until the gearbox is repaired  with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
If it has not done so already, refund the cost of the independent report Miss J 
provided, on proof of the cost with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay Miss J £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Js credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman