DRN-2143958
The complaint
Miss S says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading under a different business name) mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2009. Miss S applied for the 
loan and the PPI online and she paid monthly for the policy.  
Miss S told us, amongst other things, that PPI wasnt properly explained online and it was an 
additional cost which she didnt want or need.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint because I dont think that Santander gave her 
clear enough information about the policy. And I think that if Miss S had been given better 
information its unlikely she wouldve taken out the policy. Heres why I say this.
From information Ive been provided with, I cant see that the cost of the PPI wouldve been 
provided to Miss S at any time before she agreed to buy the policy. It looks as if she needed 
to use an online loan calculator to get a price for the PPI. But this wasnt an essential step in 
the online application so I dont know if Miss S did this. And even if Miss S had used it, 
Santander says the calculator wouldve only provided an idea of the cost. 
Santander says that the cost of PPI was set out in a welcome pack sent with the credit 
agreement when the loan was approved. But by then, Miss S had already been asked if she 
wanted to take out PPI, so she had already committed to buying it. 
I think that if Miss S had been given clearer information about the cost of the policy during 
the application process, it wouldve made a difference to her decision to take out the PPI. 
I dont think shes likely to have thought the policy wouldve been good value for money 
taking into account the monthly cost of the policy in relation to the cost of the monthly 
repayments. 
So I think its unlikely she wouldve taken the policy out had she been given better 
information about the cost. 
And for this reason, I think shes lost out because of what Santander did wrong. 
Putting things right
I think it likely that Miss S wouldnt have purchased the PPI but would still have gone ahead 
with her personal loan. So Miss S should be put back in the position she wouldve been in 
now if shed taken out the loan without the PPI policy. 
Santander should:
Repay Miss S the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Santander can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating to 
this PPI sale that it has already repaid to Miss S.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Miss S as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman