DRN-2403234
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr R had an income protection policy with Unum. He made a claim on his policy in October 
2019 as he became too unwell to work in July the same year. Mr R suffered with 
fibromyalgia and his symptoms prevented him from being able to fulfil the duties of his 
insured occupation. He suffered with extreme exhaustion, wide spread pain, stiffness and 
aches, poor sleep, concentration issues and migraines. This is not an exhaustive list of 
symptoms as there were more, but Ive highlighted the main issues that were barriers to Mr 
R returning to work. Mr R said he was diagnosed with fibromyalgia back in April 2018 and 
was able to manage his symptoms by reducing his work commitments up until he went off 
sick in July 2019. He would like Unum to pay his claim.
Unum said it declined Mr Rs claim fairly because it relied on a special condition added to the 
policy terms back in 2008. It said that because there was no objective medical cause for Mr 
Rs absence there wasnt any cover available in the circumstances. 
Our investigator found that Unum had relied on the policy term fairly and so didnt think it 
needed to do anything more in respect of this complaint. But Mr R disagreed. In summary, 
he said;
The functional disorder clause was added following a period of poor mental health, 
in particular, anxiety and so it shouldnt be considered as part of this claim;
Unum has a history of declining claims related to fibromyalgia  meaning its not 
necessarily considered his illness and related symptoms fairly and 
Relying on the NHS website for guidance wasnt wholly fair, instead, our investigator 
should have relied on an independent medically qualified professionals input.
And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. Im persuaded the insurer has relied upon its terms 
fairly to decline Mr Rs claim. Ill explain why. 
Unum must not decline a claim unfairly. And so, Ive thought about the evidence its relied on 
to reach its decision. Im satisfied its considered the relevant medical records, in conjunction 
with Mr Rs self-reported symptoms, prior to declining the claim. Its not in dispute that Mr R 
suffers with fibromyalgia, or that his symptoms are the main barrier precluding him from 
returning to work. But the policy he has with Unum doesnt offer cover in the circumstances. 
To be clear, the terms say;
No benefit shall be payable for incapacity arising from any mental, nervous or functional
disorder. (For the purposes of this cover, a disorder is defined as functional when a patient
complains of symptoms for which, despite thorough and objective medical investigation, no
physical cause can be found.)
Unum said that Mr R suffered a functional disorder because although he suffered with the 
symptoms described above, there was no physical cause found for those issues. Mr R 
disputed the above term and said it was added following his disclosure of having suffered 
with anxiety previously. Mr R said that he was led to believe the above term was added as a 
special condition in order to cover off any further occasion of anxiety. But thats not how Ive 
interpreted the term. I agree with Mr R in that the term is broad and that it could potentially 
be applied in such a way that many symptoms could essentially be caught by it. But that 
doesnt mean his symptoms related to fibromyalgia should be exempt from its consideration. 
Theres already been investigations into Mr Rs symptoms and theres no medical evidence 
to show that theres a physical cause. And thats why Unum is entitled to rely on the term in 
the way that it has to decline Mr Rs claim. 
Mr R suggested the investigator should have sought medical input with this case, but I 
disagree. I say that because its not for this service to help prove Mr Rs claim. The 
ombudsman is here to decide whether Unum has made an error and, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont believe it has. Its for Mr R to show that he has a valid claim and so a 
functional capacity test, in these circumstances, isnt required by Unum as Mr R hasnt 
satisfied the threshold of evidence needed for that.
I should also say that I dont believe Unum declined Mr Rs claim simply because he has 
fibromyalgia. I think its considered things carefully and correctly against the policy terms. 
And thats the reason Mr Rs claim was declined, because of the special condition, not 
because he has fibromyalgia. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman