DRN-4115342
The complaint
Miss R and Mr P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined a claim 
they made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R and Mr P had an annual travel insurance policy which started on 18 June 2022 and 
ended on 17 June 2023. The underwriter of the policy is Great Lakes. 
Unfortunately Miss R and Mr P were the victims of theft while they were abroad. A number of 
personal items were stolen from the locked boot of their car whilst it was parked in a car 
park. The items taken included sunglasses, binoculars, a bracelet, and an amount of cash, 
amongst other things. 
Miss R and Mr P reported the theft to the police and sent all the information to Great Lakes; 
including the police report, a schedule of items taken, and an itemised list of proof of 
ownership for the stolen items. 
Miss R and Mr P say despite doing all they were supposed to the claim wasnt dealt with in a 
professional, timely or appropriate manner. Miss R and Mr P say initially they were asked for 
the same documentation repeatedly or given inaccurate details about the claim. 
Mr R and Mr P submitted the claim at the end of June 2022 and were not told until October 
2022 that the claim had been declined. One of the reasons the claim was declined was 
because Miss R and Mr P hadnt reported the matter to police within the timescales set out 
in the terms of the policy. The claim was also declined because the items were left 
unattended but Miss R and Mr P dispute this. 
Miss R and Mr P say they have suffered a substantial loss because Great Lakes havent 
paid out under the policy as it should have. They believe under the terms of the policy they 
should have received approximately £1800 for the stolen personal items together with EUR 
400 for the stolen money. But they didnt receive this and so were unable to replace the 
items or cash. 
Miss R and Mr P complained to Great Lakes. They want it to acknowledge the service was 
not up to the standard they expected, and for their claim to be paid. 
Great Lakes referred Miss R and Mr P to the terms of the policy. It said since the theft wasnt 
reported to police within 24 hours of discovery they hadnt met the relevant conditions. Great 
Lakes also said the items had been left in their vehicle which was unattended with no 
evidence of forced or violent means. And so the claim was declined.
Miss R and Mr P remained unhappy with the response from Great Lakes and so they 
referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for them. She said 
she thought the claim was declined fairly since the car was unattended and theres 
insufficient evidence to show there was force and violence as per the terms of the policy. But 
the investigator said there were delays and lack of updates from Great Lakes regarding the 
claim. And so she recommended Great Lakes pay Miss R and Mr P £100 to reflect the 
impact of those delays. 
Miss R and Mr P accepted the investigators view but Great Lakes didnt reply. When it did 
reply it accepted the investigators outcome but Miss R and Mr P asked for an ombudsman 
to review the claim. And so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss R and Mr P have strong feels about this matter. And they have provided 
detailed submissions to support their complaint, which I have read and considered. In 
deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. I havent 
commented on every issue or point made. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss R and 
Mr P, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in 
line with this together with the terms of the policy. 
The relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
Section 6a headed Personal Baggage says, We will pay up to the amount shown on the 
table of benefits if your personal baggage is damaged, stolen, destroyed, or lost during the 
course of a trip. 
The policy lists some special conditions relating to claims made under the above clause for 
example   the theft must be reported to the local police within 24 hours of the discovery. 
Unattended is defined in the policy as when you cannot see and/or are not close enough to 
your property, or vehicle, to prevent unauthorised interference with, or theft of, your property 
or vehicle. 
Miss R and Mr P left their belongings in the boot of their car whilst at the beach. They have 
said they were looking at the water and reading at the time. And I appreciate that Miss R and 
Mr P have explained they were able to see the car from where they were but I dont think 
thats enough to say the car was not unattended. 
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept. And not every eventuality will be 
covered. The events an insurer will and wont cover needs to be clearly set out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Im satisfied Great Lakes has clearly set out what it will cover in 
relation to a claim for personal baggage and items, and which exclusions will apply. 
Items left in cars are vulnerable so insurers apply the exclusion described so as to ensure 
that only cases where cars are actually broken into are covered. Unfortunately in this case I 
cant find that an electronic device was most likely used. I have seen the article Miss R and 
Mr P provided but it was from some time ago, and there isnt anything else to support what 
its saying. In the absence of any definitive evidence I look at what is most likely on balance. 
And with no evidence otherwise of force and violence being used I think its fair Great Lakes 
has applied the exclusion. 
Whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Miss R and Mr P taking all this into account 
Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly and in accordance with the policy terms when 
declining the claim.Personal Money claim 
Great Lakes has pointed out that valuables and personal money left unattended in a car 
arent covered. And I can see that under the section what is not covered it says, loss, theft 
of, or damage to valuables, personal money or passport from a motor vehicle left unattended 
at any time. So whilst I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Miss R and Mr P I dont 
think Great Lakes should pay for any valuables or personal money stolen from the car. 
Reporting theft to the police 
Great Lakes said the theft wasnt reported within 24 hours of its discovery. And this is a 
requirement of the policy.  Miss R and Mr P have explained they became aware of the theft 
on Tuesday evening and reported it to the police the following day. Their testimony in regard 
to this has been consistent. The police report also supports this. So Im satisfied the theft 
was reported within the timescales set out in the policy. 
Claim Delay
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly. I can see Miss R 
and Mr P submitted their claim to Great Lakes together with the police report and supporting 
documents on 23 June, a few days after the theft. 
Despite this they didnt receive an outcome to the claim until October, some four months 
later. And given Miss R and Mr P provided the relevant information to Great Lakes from the 
outset Im unable to see why there was delay. During this time Miss R and Mr P had to 
chase Great Lakes for an update on a number of occasions and were frustrated when they 
received requests for details already provided. And I think given the situation and the items 
which were stolen I think this would have caused Miss R and Mr P further distress and 
inconvenience.  
Following the investigators view Great Lakes accepted the findings in respect of the delay. I 
will discuss this further below.  
Putting things right
Had Great Lakes dealt with the claim promptly in the first instance I dont think Miss R and 
Mr P would have needed to continue to engage with Great Lakes and ourselves in an 
attempt to satisfy themselves their claim had been dealt with fairly and correctly. Im satisfied 
this has taken time and effort from Miss R and Mr P, and I dont doubt it would have been 
stressful and upsetting during that process. Our investigator recommended Great Lakes pay 
Miss R and Mr P £100 to recognise the trouble and upset. And I think this recommendation 
is a fair one that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it 
not already been made. So I will direct Great Lakes to pay this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to do what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Kiran ClairOmbudsman