DRN-3094592
The complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) was irresponsible 
to lend to him.
  
What happened
Mr W borrowed £2,000 from 118 118 Money on 10 September 2016. He needed to repay 
£155.37 per month for 24 months with the final repayment due on 30 August 2018. 
118 118 Money sold the debt to a third party in May 2018.
Mr W says that 118 118 Money did not carry out appropriate checks and that, if it had done 
so, it would have seen his other credit commitments which made further repayments 
unaffordable to him. He says he was using one loan to repay another and that he was in a 
debt spiral. Mr W adds that he is now being chased for the debt by a debt management 
company, and that the situation is seriously affecting both his mental health and his personal 
relationships.
118 118 Money says it asked Mr W about his income and expenditure, his living 
arrangements and family circumstances, and his employment details. It says it used industry 
standard verification checks and that Mr W was asked to confirm that he felt the repayments 
were affordable to him. 118 118 Money says it also checked Mr Ws declared credit 
commitments against his credit file and was satisfied that the loan application was correctly 
approved.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that the 
information 118 118 Money had gathered was enough to indicate that the loan repayments 
were unsustainable for Mr W. He recommended that any repayments Mr W made should be 
deducted from the principal, and that any overpayments were refunded (plus 8% statutory 
interest) or that 118 118 Money should arrange a suitable repayment plan for the 
outstanding capital balance. He said that any adverse information about the loan should be 
removed from his credit file.
118 118 Money responded to say, in summary, that it had no reason to doubt the 
expenditure figures declared by Mr W. It says the credit file showed Mr W was in control of 
his finances and that the defaults on his account were from at least three years earlier and 
were on utility accounts, rather than typical credit accounts. Instead, 118 118 Money says, it 
felt that Mr W was unable to repay the loan due to a change in circumstances after hed 
taken it out, rather than it being unaffordable from the outset.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 118 118 Money lent to Mr W. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that 118 118 Money needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ws loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, when Mr W applied for the loan from 118 118 Money, it 
asked him for information about his income and expenditure and carried out a detailed credit 
check.
The checks showed:
Mr Ws income was around £1,875 and hed declared expenditure of just over 
£1,400;
Mr Ws credit file showed:
oFour credit cards with a combined balance of £2,716;
oTwo mail order accounts with a combined balance of £535
oA hire purchase account with monthly repayments of £264;
oTwo defaults from 2012 and 2013;
But I dont find the checks went far enough in the circumstances. I say that because:
The loan was for 24 months and 118 118 Money needed to ensure the repayments 
were sustainable for that period;
From the credit file, Mr Ws credit commitments (based on minimum repayments to 
his credit card and mail order accounts) were at least £360, compared with the £238 
hed declared;
Although Mr W declared a monthly mortgage repayment, this was not reflected in his 
credit file;
Mr W had been in arrears on his hire purchase account for four out of the last five 
months;
With the new loan, Mr W was committed to paying almost 30% of his income to credit 
repayments each month.
Using the higher credit figure in the affordability calculations meant Mr W would have had 
less than £200 of disposable income each month once hed made the new loan repayment. 
Given Mr W was self-employed, and more likely to have fluctuating income, and taking the 
above into account, I consider 118 118 Money should have ensured it fully understood 
Mr Ws financial situation before it approved the loan. So I dont find its checks were 
reasonable or proportionate.
That said, I consider 118 118 Money had enough information to find that the loan was likely 
to be unsustainable. Mr W was already showing signs he was struggling to make 
repayments on his hire purchase agreement, and his declared expenditure did not seem to include all possible categories of expenditure (for example, travel, insurance, council tax, 
communications). I think this, the percentage of his income he needed to commit to credit 
repayments, and the uncertainty over his ongoing income and mortgage cost should have 
led 118 118 Money to consider it was unlikely he could sustainably repay a further loan. 
Indeed, I note Mr W only made three payments (the first of which was late) before his direct 
debits started to be returned.
In summary, I dont find 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks, but I consider it 
had enough evidence to indicate further lending was unsustainable. So Im satisfied 
118 118 Money was irresponsible to have approved the loan, although I dont find it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money Limited) should buy the debt back if it is able to do so and then take the following 
steps. If 118 118 Money cant buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below:
Add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount:
oIf this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement); *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 
118 118 Money should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman