DRN-1726780
The complaint
Mr K complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay. 
He asks that it refunds interest and charges.
What happened
Mr K took out five loans with H&T between February and July 2016. He says he took out the 
loans to cover living costs and the costs of repaying existing loans.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said H&T shouldnt 
have offered loans 4 and 5. By this time there were signs Mr K was struggling to repay loans 
sustainably. Hed taken out four loans without a significant break, which suggested he had to 
borrow to cover his expenditure.
H&T didnt agree. It said the loans were for small amounts and the checks it made were 
proportionate. It said Mr Ks credit file showed his repayment history was good and he only 
had one other small loan. It said Mr Ks income was more than enough for his stated 
outgoings.
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties to explain why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, I said 
while H&T should have carried out more thorough checks before offering loans 1 to 4, it was 
unlikely proportionate checks would have shown the loans werent affordable. And Mr K 
hadnt provided information so that I could see what H&T would have seen if it had carried 
out further checks before loan 5. Ive allowed time for Mr K, his representative and H&T to 
respond to my provisional decision. I havent received any comments or evidence thats 
persuaded me to change my findings and outcome from my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ks 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest that H&T should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for a customer. Such factors include the customers income  
particularly a lower income  the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which the 
loan is to be repaid, and the number and frequency of loans and the time over which the 
customer has been given loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come a point where the lending 
history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I would also note here that H&T was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably 
repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.
Loans 1 to 3 (January to April 2016)
Mr K took out three loans between January and April 2016. Mr K told H&T his monthly 
income was about £1,500 (which he supported with a copy of his payslip) and his monthly 
outgoings were between £300 and £575. H&T calculated his weekly disposable income as 
about £210 to £270. The highest weekly instalment due on loans 1 to 3 was about £30. The 
information Mr K provided about his income and expenditure suggested the loan instalments 
were affordable.
H&T also did credit checks. This showed some adverse information. Mr K had a default 
recorded within the previous 12 months and two judgements relating to debts totalling about 
£1,500. The credit check showed Mr K had two active accounts.
I dont think the adverse information on Mr Ks credit file meant H&T shouldnt lend. Its not 
clear how recent the default and judgement debts were, or what they related to. H&T could 
have asked more questions about this. But the information Mr K had provided suggested the 
repayments were affordable. I dont think the information from the credit check was enough 
in itself to suggest Mr K would have difficulty in sustainably repaying the loans.
While I think H&T might have done more thorough checks, I dont think, given the amount of 
the loans and Mr Ks stated income, proportionate checks would have given it any reason to 
think the loans werent affordable or that further checks were needed.
Loan 4 (June 2016)
When Mr K took out loan 4 (of £100) he told H&T his monthly income was about £1,500 and 
his monthly outgoings were about £600. H&T calculated his weekly disposable income as 
about £200. The loan was repayable in five weekly instalments of about £25.
By this time, Mr K had been borrowing from H&T for five months without a significant break. 
This could indicate he had difficulties managing his money, or that he was borrowing to 
cover the gap left in his finances by repaying the previous loans.
But Ive also taken into account that the loans and repayments were small relative to Mr Ks 
income. The information he provided about his expenditure suggested the loan repayments 
were affordable. The results of H&Ts credit check didnt suggest Mr Ks financial 
circumstances had deteriorated or that he was taking out loans with other short-term 
lenders. The amount of loan 4 didnt increase compared to previous loans.
While I think H&T might have done more thorough checks, I dont think, given the amount of 
the loan and Mr Ks stated income, proportionate checks at this point would have given it any 
reason to think loan 4 wasnt affordable or that further checks were needed.
Loan 5 (July 2016)
I think when Mr K asked for loan 5 (of £177) H&T should have made more thorough checks 
before lending. By this time, Mr K had been borrowing from H&T for six months without a significant break. This was his fifth loan. The amount of the loan increased compared to Mr 
Ks previous loan, the amount of the weekly instalments increased (to about £27) and the 
loan was to be repaid over a longer period.
I think Mr Ks borrowing pattern could suggest a problem, such as reliance on short term 
loans or financial difficulties. I think H&T should have asked for information to gain a full 
understanding of his financial circumstances.
I asked Mr Ks representative for information about his circumstances at that time  such as 
bank statements  so I can assess what H&T would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. This information wasnt provided. Mr Ks representative says its tried 
to contact Mr K since my provisional decision, but he hasnt responded.
I think H&T should have made more checks before giving the loans to Mr K. But without 
further information about his circumstances at the time I cant fairly conclude that, had it 
done so, it would have decided that the loan wasnt affordable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman