DRN-3487810
The complaint
Mr C said Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows: 
Date taken Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
30/09/2019 £4,100 36 months £250.80 £9,028.80 Outstanding
Mr C mainly said that he didnt know fully what he was getting into when he signed up for the 
loan and the interest rate wasnt properly explained. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She thought that Everyday Loans had over-estimated 
Mr Cs income when working out affordability and that even with debt consolidation  in other 
words, using the loan to repay other debt  this loan would still have been unaffordable for 
Mr C.
Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the case was passed 
to me. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, I havent currently seen enough evidence to enable me to say that 
Everyday Loans made an unfair lending decision when it provided this loan. Ill explain why 
I say this.
Everyday Loans was required to lend responsibly. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Checks had to be borrower-focused. So 
Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any 
difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday 
Loans to think only about the likelihood of it getting its money back - it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr C .
Everyday Loans asked for some information from Mr C before it approved the loan including 
details of his income and his monthly spending. It told us it worked out what Mr Cs likely 
monthly salary would be by checking the information on a payslip and in bank statements 
that Mr C provided as part of the loan application process. Everyday Loans recorded that 
Mr Cs monthly earnings were around £1,833 from looking at his earnings to date shown on 
his payslip. 
It reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history and existing commitments. It also 
relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations an amount that reflected 
the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Cs position might reasonably expect to pay 
according to national UK averages worked out by the Office for National Statistics. As well 
as this, Everyday Loans included an extra buffer for any minor fluctuations in Mr Cs 
income or expenses or in case he needed to meet an unplanned expense. 
It also asked about the purpose of the loan. Based on the information it gathered, Everyday 
Loans concluded he could afford this loan and that Mr C would be better off if he took out the 
loan and used it to repay other debt leaving him with just his Everyday Loans repayment 
which would mean, instead of a monthly shortfall, Mr C should be left with spare cash  
around £192 each month. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr C likely wouldnt have as much pay as Everyday Loans had 
thought, given that bank statements Everyday Loans saw showed that his last two months 
pay had been on average around £1,300  so significantly less than the figure Everyday 
Loans used in its affordability calculations. 
But Mr C had explained to Everyday Loans that hed been off work sick so his earnings had 
been less during this period. Everyday Loans checked and understood that he had returned 
to work. I think its fair to say that the lender had no reason to think that Mr C wouldnt be 
able to reach his full earning potential now he was back in work  and it saw that his pay had 
been around £2,263 in the month when hed last been in work before going off sick. So 
I dont feel I can fairly say that Everyday Loans assumption that Mr C was likely to be able to 
rely on earning around £1,833 was unreasonable. I think that wouldve been a realistic 
assessment and it was fair to rely on this figure when assessing affordability.   
I havent seen anything to make me think Everyday Loans shouldve been concerned by 
what it saw in its credit checks. These showed that Mr C had three credit cards - he had 
used most of the available credit they offered but they were all within their limit and the 
accounts appeared to be well managed. Everyday Loans was also aware that Mr C had  
outstanding loans with other high cost lenders. But I havent seen enough to be able to say 
that the amount of debt he had, or how he was managing it, should have led Everyday 
Loans to decline his loan application. There was also no serious impaired credit information shown on Mr Cs file - he wasnt 
shown as being in bankruptcy or having entered into any formal arrangement with creditors 
and there was no record of any county court judgement. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing and this wouldnt necessarily be a reason to prompt a responsible lender to 
decline a loan application. Mr C had told Everyday Loans that hed been reliant on payday 
lending whilst hed been off work so I think that wouldve seemed a plausible explanation for 
the loans hed taken out. I think in these circumstances Everyday Loans was reasonably 
entitled to take a view that this suggested Mr C was borrowing now specifically to help him 
manage his finances more responsibly. It looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that 
on the figures it worked out, the loan would cover what he owed and doing this would mean 
that Mr C should have some disposable income each month instead of insufficient money to 
cover all his likely outgoings.
The checks Everyday Loans did went far enough and they were broadly proportionate in the 
circumstances. I think Everyday Loans was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it 
gathered and that its lending decision was fair, based on what it saw. Overall, given that this 
was Mr Cs first loan with Everyday Loans, the monthly repayment (which wouldve been his 
only credit expense if hed used the money for debt consolidation) was a relatively small 
percentage of his monthly income and hed given a reasonable explanation for needing this 
loan. I dont think there was enough in the information Everyday Loans gathered that ought 
to have led it to a different lending decision.  
It follows that I dont think Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr C and so theres 
nothing Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about the high cost of the loan. I think there was a 
large amount of interest payable and I can appreciate that Mr C might now feel this was 
unfair. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr C 
had to actively engage in the loan application process. Whilst hes said he feels the process 
was rushed, I think Mr C wouldve understood that it was up to him to choose whether or not 
he wanted to go ahead with the loan offered.   
Taking everything into account, I think Mr C was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time.
So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr C but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr C has sent me some additional information and bank statements and asked me to 
reconsider his complaint.
Everyday Loans has acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but not commented 
further. 
I appreciate that Mr C is anxious to hear from me and I am not expecting to hear anything 
further from Everyday Loans. So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of 
this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr C that Ive taken carefully into account all the information and 
everything thats been said, including his comments and the further information sent in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr C had a problem with debt and that his circumstances have been so 
difficult. But what Mr C has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint. Mr C hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. Id already considered the main points he has mentioned when thinking 
about my provisional decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on 
the outcome. 
After thinking carefully about everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received that change what I think about 
this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman