DRN-1971700
The complaint
Mr W complains that Topaz Finance Limited didnt offer support when he was in financial 
difficulty due to health problems.
What happened
Mr W took out a 25-year repayment mortgage in 2008 with a different provider. The 
mortgage was transferred to Topaz in June 2019. Shortly after this, Mr W contacted Topaz 
saying he needed medical treatment which would mean he was off work for six to 12 
months. He said he wouldnt be able to afford the monthly payments during this time and 
asked Topaz to extend the term of his mortgage and switch it to interest only payments while 
he was off work.
Topaz declined, saying the monthly mortgage payments would still be unaffordable for Mr W 
with a term extension. It said Mr W has had about 30 interest only or reduced payment 
concessions in the past and his account history and circumstances suggest the mortgage 
isnt affordable. It said Mr W should seek independent advice about selling his buy to let 
properties to reduce his balance and make his monthly payments affordable. 
Mr W says there isnt enough equity in the buy to let properties to assist him. He says this 
has left him struggling financially and impacted on his physical and mental health. He says 
arrears fees applied by Topaz are unfair.
Our investigator said the information Mr W provided to Topaz shows monthly mortgage 
payments arent affordable, even with a term extension. Further concessions would result in 
the balance increasing further. Topaz didnt offer a concession as its unlikely Mr Ws 
situation will improve. The investigator said this was fair.
Our investigator said Topaz had applied arrears fees in months when payments werent 
made in full and no agreed payment arrangement was in place. As Topaz carried out 
additional work at these times it was fair to apply the fee.
Mr W didnt agree. He said Topaz hadnt taken into account his reduced outgoings after one 
of his buy-to-let mortgages was changed to interest only. He says Topaz contacted him 
about payments when he was recovering from surgery. He says its unfair for Topaz to use 
his account history against him, and he feels that weve all forgotten his problems were 
caused by accidents at work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
What happened?
Mr W experienced financial difficulties soon after taking out the mortgage, and his account 
fell into arrears in 2008. His previous lender agreed to and extended concessions. Mr W was 
able to reduce his arrears at times. Hes now receiving help with his mortgage payments 
from the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP), but is still unable to make his contractual 
monthly payments in full. By October 2020 Mr W had arrears of about £7,000.
Mr W is self-employed. His work is physically demanding. Hes had periods when hes been 
unable to work due to injuries from an accident in 2013. Hes been unable to work recently 
while waiting for, and then recovering from, surgery. 
Mr W has two buy-to-let properties. In July 2019 he told Topaz if his surgery wasnt a 
success and he couldnt return to work hed sell the buy-to-let properties and the proceeds 
would be enough to clear all three mortgages. He now says this isnt the case as there isnt 
enough equity in the buy-to-let properties. Topaz asked Mr W for more information about the 
buy-to-let properties. But while Mr W says hes had the properties valued, he didnt provide 
the valuations or related mortgage balances to Topaz (or us).
Topaz says the income and expenditure information provided by Mr W suggests monthly 
payments are unaffordable even with a term extension. It says its not fair to offer further 
concessions to Mr W, as this increases his arrears and its unlikely his situation will improve. 
Was it fair for Topaz to apply arrears fees?
Topaz applied arrears fees from September 2019. It applied the fee in months that Mr W 
didnt pay his contractual monthly payment in full, and no arrangement was in place. The 
terms of Mr Ws mortgage allow Topaz to apply arrears fees. These are intended to cover 
the costs of additional work undertaken by Topaz when an account is in arrears. 
I understand why Mr W feels the arrears fees are unfair  hed told Topaz he couldnt afford 
the monthly payments and it didnt offer a concession. However, I also need to take into 
account that Mr W didnt provide the information Topaz asked for promptly, making it more 
difficult for Topaz to assess what concessions it could offer, and I think Topaz did undertake 
additional work. Mr W had told Topaz if his operation wasnt successful he could sell his buy-
to-let properties. He hasnt told Topaz if hes looked into this further, or if hes looking into 
other ways to reduce his arrears and make the contractual monthly payments affordable, or 
even to repay the mortgage balance.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair for Topaz to apply the arrears fees and I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to ask it to refund them. 
Did Topaz respond fairly when Mr W contacted it in July 2019?
Mr W asked Topaz for a term extension, as he wanted to reduce his contractual monthly 
payments which he accepts arent affordable at the moment. This would be a change to his 
mortgage contract.
The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA  sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. This doesnt apply to a temporary 
concession to help a customer in financial difficulties but would apply to a permanent 
change, such as a term extension.There are exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014, as Mr Ws was. In 
summary, Topaz could agree to extend the term without an assessment of affordability if its 
in Mr Ws best interests. 
I should say though that Id still consider it fair for Topaz to consider affordability when 
considering whether a term extension would be in Mr Ws best interests. 
Based on the information it received, Topaz assessed monthly payments as unaffordable for 
Mr W, even with a term extension (it said this took account of reduced outgoings after his 
buy-to-let mortgage was switched to interest only payments). 
The current term of Mr Ws mortgage expires when Mr W is in his mid-60s. His work is 
physically demanding, and hes needed to take time off work for medical reasons in the past 
and recently. Even if Mr Ws surgery is successful, its not certain that hell be able to 
continue working until hes in his mid-70s. I dont think its clearly in Mr Ws best interests for 
Topaz to extend the term. He cant afford the monthly repayments now and it seems unlikely 
hed be able to afford the repayments to the end of the term. Its likely the help Mr W 
receives with his mortgage payments from the DWP is in the form of a loan secured on his 
property. This will reduce his equity if he does later sell the property.
What happens now?
Mr W has been able to reduce his arrears in the past, at least temporarily. And he has two 
buy-to-let properties. I think theres scope for Mr W and Topaz to engage more about what 
options could be available. For instance, if Mr W provides evidence about the value of the 
buy-to-let properties, and the related mortgage balances, Topaz can take this into account in 
considering what support it can offer. As he hasnt done so, Topaz suggested Mr W seek 
independent advice about the buy-to-let properties and his options. I think in the 
circumstances thats a reasonable suggestion. 
Based on the evidence which is available, its not clear there are other changes that would 
help Mr W. I dont think a change to interest only payments would be in Mr Ws best interests 
unless he can provide evidence of a credible strategy to repay the balance. And I think its 
fair for Topaz not to continue to offer further concessions which increase Mr Ws arrears, 
when the evidence it has suggests his circumstances are unlikely to improve. 
Topaz wrote to Mr W about his arrears. While Mr W didnt expect this when hed had surgery 
and restrictions related to the pandemic were in place, I dont think it was wrong for Topaz to 
ensure Mr W has up to date information about his account. 
Topaz says it paused all possession proceedings, in line with guidance issued by the FCA 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The FCA recently issued new guidance in effect from 20 
November 2020. This sets out the regulators expectations about tailored forbearance and 
how lenders should approach repossessions. Topaz should take this, and any further 
guidance into account and consider the evolving position as the Covid-19 pandemic 
continues and how this affects Mr Ws particular set of circumstances. While Topaz has 
paused possession proceedings, Id urge Mr W to use this time to take independent advice 
and look into what options could be available to him. Mr W should keep Topaz informed 
about what steps hes taking  for instance in relation to the buy-to-let properties or when he 
might return to work. As Ive said Topaz should take account of any further guidance from 
the regulator and the requirement to treat Mr W fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman