DRN-3261178
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has done to put things right in 
relation to his complaint about his overdraft charges.
Background
Mr S also complained about Lloyds using money from another of his accounts to repay his 
overdraft. But this decision is only looking at Mr S concerns about his overdraft charges. 
When the complaint was referred to us Lloyds agreed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges it added to Mr S account from November 2018 onwards. One of our adjudicators 
looked into Mr S concerns and thought that what Lloyds had agreed to do to put things right 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Mr S disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. Lloyds agrees that it ought to have realised that Mr S 
account was in difficulty and that it shouldnt have added any interest, fees and charges to 
Mr S account from November 2018 onwards. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, 
fees and charges added it to Mr S account from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. So we have to 
look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable way. And 
where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit facility which it 
should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Lloyds has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances. That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular 
merits. And while we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put 
things right where it continued to provided credit it shouldnt have, we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr S says Lloyds should do more. As I understand it, Mr S wants a payment for the distress 
and inconvenience he says Lloyds actions caused. Mr S hasnt been specific about how 
much he believes Lloyds should pay him or about the impact its actions had. Hes merely 
said that the bank caused mental anguish. Nonetheless, I do think that he might be referring 
to the process of attempting to take corrective action on his overdraft in 2021. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. However, all parties are in agreement that Mr S 
overdraft had already become demonstrably unsustainable by November 2018. And this 
would have, in any event, resulted in Lloyds beginning the process of taking corrective action 
in the way that it did in August 2021  albeit it would have taken this action earlier. After all 
while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, might be 
viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in relation 
to the overdraft debt. Lloyds acknowledges it should have stopped adding interest from         
November 2018 and will now adjust Mr S outstanding balance to reflect this. 
So as Im satisfied that Lloyds ought to have begun the process of taking corrective action in 
relation to Mr S overdraft earlier than it did, I dont think that its actions in doing so sometime 
later warrant an award for distress and inconvenience here. Equally as Mr S hasnt provided 
me with anything else to suggest that Lloyds actions caused distress and inconvenience 
above the normal nuisances of everyday life, Im not persuaded a further award for distress 
and inconvenience is appropriate for any other reason either. 
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mr S strength of feeling on 
this matter, I think that what Lloyds has already done to put things right for him is fair and 
reasonable and it hasnt treated him unfairly in relation to his overdraft complaint. And so I 
dont think that Lloyds needs to do anything further. I realise that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for my decision and at 
least feel that his concerns have been listened to. I now leave it to Mr S to decide whether 
he wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman