DRN-3804515
The complaint
Miss B complains Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked and then closed her accounts. She 
wants compensation for how she was made to feel and the inconvenience she experienced.
What happened
Miss B held a current account and a savings account with Santander. In June 2022 several 
payments credited her account, the majority of which were paid to a third party. 
Miss B says she received a message from Santander asking if she recognised one of the 
payments to a new payee (the third party), which she didnt. She also says her mobile 
number was changed on her account without her knowledge. But, although Miss B didnt 
recognise the payments, she did allow her partner to withdraw £60 of the money. 
Santander blocked the accounts, but they allowed Miss B to withdraw a benefit payment. 
After completing a review, they decided to close her accounts immediately.
Miss B is unhappy her accounts were blocked and closed. She says she is the victim of 
money launderers using her account without her involvement. She also says Santander 
deducted a small sum from the benefit payment paid into her account, and she experienced 
inconvenience by having to open an account elsewhere and rearrange her direct debits. She 
says her mental health was very affected by Santanders actions.
Miss B says she doesnt know how her account security details were compromised which 
enabled unknown persons to access her account. She recalls showing Santander a link on a 
text message she received which she had clicked, and Santander confirmed the text wasnt 
sent by them. 
An investigator at our service didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. They concluded: 
Santander could block Miss Bs account in line with their legal and regulatory 
responsibilities. They had an obligation to investigate potentially fraudulent activity 
and it was necessary to block the account while they carried out a review. 
No satisfactory explanation had been provided which would explain how someone 
accessed Miss Bs online account without her knowledge.
Santander were able to close her accounts immediately and closed them in line with 
their terms and conditions.
Miss B rejected the outcome and asked for a final decision. She doesnt think Santander 
treated her fairly. And, she feels Santander shouldnt have allowed money to be laundered 
through her account when she told them she didnt recognise a payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to verify the origin of funds 
and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Santander will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common 
industry practice for banks to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so 
helps prevent potential further harm that could otherwise result. I find Santander acted 
reasonably by blocking the account - they needed to investigate what had happened and 
then reach a decision about what to do.
Miss B was frustrated she wasnt updated when her account was blocked. But Santanders 
review was confidential, and they werent obligated to provide the details of their review to 
her. I understand Miss B may have expected a phone call, but I have considered 
Santanders reasons for not calling, and I find they were valid. So, while this was a worrying 
time for her, I am not directing Santander to pay her compensation for the lack of information 
she received or for her attempts to obtain updates. I find Santander actively progressed their 
review while the account was blocked, and they reached their decision without undue delay.
Santander, like most banks, can close customer accounts. Their ability to do so is referred to 
as their commercial discretion. I have reviewed the basis of their decision and the results of 
their review into Miss Bs account, and Im satisfied their decision was not unlawful and it 
was a legitimate exercise of their discretion.
I have gone on to consider whether Santander could close Miss Bs account immediately 
under the accounts terms and conditions. I find they could. Irrespective of how the payments 
went into Miss Bs account and how they were paid out, Miss B admits to allowing her 
partner to withdraw £60. I dont find this was a reasonable decision or justifiable, and it was a 
misuse of her account. So, I understand why Santander were concerned by her conduct. 
And, in addition to the other information they considered, I understand why they would doubt 
what she had said about not being involved with what had happened on her account.
Miss B says Santander ought not to have allowed the payments into the account, but I dont 
find this is a reasonable basis to withdraw funds she knew werent hers, whether or not she 
felt inconvenienced at that time. In these circumstances, Santander were entitled to close 
her account the way they did.
Santander allowed Miss B to withdraw a benefit payment she received while the account 
was blocked. But they deducted an amount from the payment. I find this was reasonable. 
Before the payments were made into the account Miss B was in an overdraft  so she owed 
money to Santander, and the amount she received reflected this.
I dont find Santander had to allow Miss B to go back into her overdraft to withdraw the full 
benefit amount (in effect meaning she would still owe Santander money), particularly as she 
had already benefitted from allowing her partner to withdraw money which wasnt hers. She 
said a cashback sum she received into her account would have paid her overdraft balance, 
but that payment was received after the benefit payment was paid out to her. But even if the 
cashback payment rather than the benefit payment was used to offset her overdraft balance, 
Miss B would have still ended up with the same amount of money back  so, in terms of what happened on her account, I dont find she lost out financially.
I was sorry to hear how Miss B says she has been affected because of her account being 
blocked and then closed. This was no doubt a difficult time for her. But I find Santander 
acted fairly, so I am not going to direct them to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced because her account was blocked and closed. Miss B says 
branch staff agreed with her that she was treated unfairly, but after considering all the 
information and evidence available to me, this is not the conclusion I have reached. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman