DRN-2010557
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Halifax wont refund transactions 
which she said she didnt make.
What happened
Miss S was abroad on holiday. While she was on holiday three transfers, totalling £400, 
were made from her savings account to an account with another bank account. She said she 
noticed the transactions when she returned home and checked her account. She said didnt 
make them and she didnt recognise the account where the money was sent. 
She raised a fraud complaint with Halifax. She said she kept losing the mobile banking app 
from her phone when she was on holiday and had to reinstall it. She said she was using the 
public Wi-Fi at the hotel and believes someone had hacked into her phone. 
She asked for a refund and for more details about the account with the receiving bank. She 
also complained that Halifax staff had been rude to her when she complained.
Halifax investigated her complaint and decided not to refund her because:
the transfers had been made from her device
the transfers were made via her mobile banking app which needed her login details
it had sent her a text message when the new payee details were registered but she 
didnt reply to say she hadnt set up the new payee. 
the third transfer was made from an IP address which she had used for genuine, 
non-disputed payments.
However, Halifax accepted it had provided her with a poor service and paid her £25 in 
compensation.
As Miss S disagreed with Halifaxs decision, she asked this service to investigate. 
Miss S told this service that her phone was generally with her or in her hotel room whilst she 
was in Greece. She said her phone was password protected and no one else had access to 
it. She said her login details for mobile banking were written on an electronic note and stored 
in her phone. She said she didnt receive the text message about the new payee. If she had, 
she would have responded to say it wasnt her who had set it up. She also said the Apple 
Store had confirmed that hackers could access a customers account via a public Wi-Fi 
network.
An investigator looked into her case, but she didnt uphold her complaint. In summary, she 
felt unable to conclude that the transfers had been made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Miss S. 
Miss S didnt agree with our investigators view. She has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The facts, the transactions, the relevant regulations and the evidence are set out in the 
investigators view. Both Miss S and Halifax have read the investigators view, so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can 
assure Miss S that Ive read the file, including her comments and evidence.
Im afraid I dont have good news for Miss S. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached the 
same conclusions as that reached by our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Miss S liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think Miss S authorised 
the payment
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the transfers were authenticated, having 
been made via Miss Ss mobile banking app and from her phone. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold her liable. 
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that Miss S made the transfers herself. 
Miss S believes that a third party hacked into her mobile phone while she was using the 
hotels public Wi-Fi network. However, Im afraid I dont think this was likely. And from what 
Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Miss S authorised the 
transactions. This is because:
Halifaxs online audit report shows that the transfers were made from Miss Ss mobile 
phone device, which was registered to her account. 
The transfers were made on 29 June 2019 at 3.45pm and on 1 July 2019 at 8am and 
11.19pm. Ive looked at the online audit report. It shows that the IP address used for 
the first two transfers was based in her holiday destination. However, the IP address 
used to make the third transfer on 1 July 2019 at 11.19pm was based in the UK and 
covered the region where she lives. Its the same IP address which she has used for 
genuine payments.
Ive seen the banks SMS log for her account. It confirms that it sent her a text 
message when the new payee was set up on her account. Halifax also confirmed 
that text alerts are automatically sent when new details are added to the account. 
Miss S said she didnt receive this message. 
However, Miss S confirmed she received the text message giving her a code to enter 
so that she could reinstall the mobile banking app. This was the next day on 
1 July 2019, just minutes before the second transfer. This evidence confirms that her 
phone and network were working abroad. So, I think its more likely that she did receive the earlier text message. Also, I cant see that she logged out after 
reinstalling the app, so she wouldve seen the transfer, even if she didnt make it. 
However, I dont think its a coincidence that the second transfer was made just 
minutes after she reinstalled the app. I think this evidence shows that its more likely 
that it was Miss S who made the transfer.
Halifaxs system checked for malware on her phone when she reinstalled the mobile 
banking app and confirmed there was none. 
Whilst it might be technically possible to hack into someones phone from a public Wi-Fi 
system, Im afraid I dont think this is what happened here. All three transfers were made to 
the same account. If this had been done by a random hacker at the hotel, then I dont see 
how this person couldve hacked into her phone in the UK. I understand its possible to 
disguise an IP address using a virtual private network, but I cant see how a hacker could 
access her phone if she were back in the UK or if she hadnt logged in to her mobile 
banking.
Ive thought about whether someone Miss S knew made the transfers, but she has 
consistently said no-one else had access to her mobile phone or knew her log in details for 
her mobile banking. So, I have to rule this out as a possibility.
Lastly, I see from the online report that she logged in on 2 July and every day until 6 July 
when she said she first noticed the disputed transfers. She explained she was only checking 
her current account. However, I understand she would have seen the balance on her 
savings account. I accept that a customer might not notice immediately that theres a 
problem so Im not attaching too much weight to the delay. Besides, I think the technical 
evidence is strong enough to show that its more likely than not that she authorised the 
disputed transfers.
I understand Miss S wanted to know more about the account where the money was sent. 
However, data protection laws prohibit Halifax, and the receiving bank, from disclosing the 
details for the accountholder, so I cant ask it to give her more information.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Miss S authorised the disputed 
transfers. It follows that Halifax is entitled to hold her liable for them.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss S, especially at this time, but I hope the 
reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman