DRN-4332761
The complaint
Mr O complains about the price quoted by Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) to 
renew his motor insurance policy. He also complains about the customer service he received 
during phone calls.  
Skyfire are the insurers of Mr Os policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of an 
agent. As Skyfire have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to Skyfire includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
Mr O received a quote to renew his policy which he says wasnt accurate  he says it also 
referred to his previous years premium, but the price noted was incorrect. Skyfire explained 
the price had increased as a result of a change in the vehicle on cover as well as a fault 
claim showing on Mr Os policy  which had a corresponding impact on Mr Os No-Claims 
Discount (NCD). There were then discussions around Mr O paying Skyfire back the 
amount theyd paid for the claim in order to treat the claim as notification only and reinstate 
his NCD  which Mr O did. Mr O says he made several calls to Skyfire about his renewal but 
found their call handlers obstructive, unhelpful and not having adequate training to deal with 
his queries. Skyfire felt Mr O was aggressive during the calls and also used offensive 
language, so they took the decision to withdraw their offer of renewal to Mr O.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. He thought Skyfire hadnt treated Mr O unfairly 
in relation to the pricing. He also thought Skyfire hadnt acted unreasonably in deciding not 
to offer Mr O a renewal. Mr O disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Pricing 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. 
But we can look to see whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is there 
anything which demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think 
someone has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this 
unfairness.
The original price to renew offered by Skyfire was £745.38. I can see the renewal 
information also refers to Mr Os price last year being £992.08  which Mr O says isnt 
accurate. So, I understand why this price caused confusion. When providing a renewal 
quote, its not unusual or uncommon for insurers to set out the price a customer paid the 
previous year, for comparison. In this case though, theres no dispute Mr O didnt pay 
£992.08 for his policy the previous year. But, where the renewal sets out last years price, 
underneath it, theres a box which says the price of £992.08 is what Mr O wouldve paid 
based on his current policy details  and taking into account any changes applied during the 
previous policy year. So, while I do understand why the figure alone wouldve caused 
confusion, I think Skyfire did explain what this figure represents. 
Skyfire have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how    
Mr Os price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the method theyve 
used to calculate the price isnt unreasonable and Ive seen no evidence that other Skyfire 
customers in Mr Os position will have been charged a lower premium. 
Skyfire confirm their rating structure is based on claims data, and how calculations are done 
using rating factors. I think whats important here is that it demonstrates the pricing model 
used to calculate Mr Os premium was no different to what was used for any other customer 
in the same circumstances. Mr O may feel this is unfair, but Skyfire, like all insurers, will 
review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the 
premium. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the pricing calculation 
and Mr O hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to use this approach.  
I think its important to mention here, its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared 
to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different 
factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher premium has made an error compared 
to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different approach 
theyve decided to take to risk. In this case, Skyfire refer to the renewal taking into account a 
change in car as well as the impact of a claim recorded on Mr Os policy. These factors will 
understandably have an impact on a price  so I cant say Skyfire have acted unfairly when 
pricing Mr Os renewal. 
I can see, when Mr O raised a query about the price, Skyfire did apply a discount. Ive 
listened to a recording of a call where Mr O asks Skyfire for their best price and the call 
handler starts looking at Mr Os policy cover to consider whether removing any add-ons 
might bring the price down. The call handler queries whether any information has changed, 
and Mr O then says his car is worth less than what they have recorded, and the call handler 
notes this. 
The call handler asks if Mr O has obtained a quote online and he explains he had a quote for 
£650. The call handler explains they can offer a price of £645. Mr O declines this and asks 
the call handler to reduce this further. The call handler then makes some adjustments and 
then offers a price of £575.64. So, Im satisfied the discount they applied here wasnt to 
correct a mistake theyd made with the original quote but was as a result of changes made to 
Mr Os policy details. 
Refusal to renew and customer service  
I understand Mr O is frustrated at Skyfires decision to not offer a renewal. I can see Skyfire 
took this decision based on concerns they had with the manner in which Mr O was speaking 
with their call handlers. They say Mr O spoke in an aggressive manner and also used 
offensive language. Mr O says he made several calls to Skyfire to discuss his renewal but 
found their call handlers obstructive, unhelpful and not having adequate training to deal with 
his queries.  Ive listened to call recordings between Mr O and Skyfire to discuss his renewal. Its clear   
Mr O was anxious about his renewal and wanted to get things sorted, and was left frustrated 
when he felt call handlers werent being helpful. For example, Mr O calls and asks to speak 
with the member of staff dealing with his dispute with Skyfire relating to how his claim has 
been recorded on his policy. Mr O explains he needs to know Skyfires offer of renewal and 
explains this needs sorting today as his policy ends at the end of the month. The call handler 
explains our service is dealing with the matter and theyre awaiting the outcome. I 
acknowledge this frustrated Mr O, but I can see the dispute relating to how the claim was 
recorded was being handled by our service, so I dont think it was unreasonable for the call 
handler to refer Mr O to our service. 
That said, I do acknowledge Mr O also had concerns about his renewal. During the call Ive 
mentioned above, while the call handler didnt appear to acknowledge the renewal was a 
separate issue to the dispute surrounding the claim, I think overall Skyfire did handle Mr Os 
queries about renewal. For example, in later calls on the same day, Mr O calls Skyfire and 
asks them for their best price for renewal. 
The call handler asks Mr O a series of questions and details of any online quotes he 
mightve obtained to use as a reference point. In a further call, and as mentioned above, 
Skyfire make adjustments and apply a discount to the price. So, while I think the call handler 
in the earlier call couldve done more to assist Mr O in relation to his concern about renewal, 
overall I think the service they provided was reasonable and addressed Mr Os query about 
the best price they could offer. 
I acknowledge Mr Os concern about Skyfire withdrawing their offer of renewal and him 
having to take out cover with another insurer. Skyfire say this decision was based on how  
Mr O spoke with their members of staff and they wont tolerate aggression or offensive 
language towards staff. Ive listened to a number of calls and, while I acknowledge Mr O was 
frustrated, I did hear offensive language being used on a number of occasions. Our service 
doesnt have the power to direct a business to offer a customer a renewal, but we would 
expect a business to treat their customers fairly. In this case, while I acknowledge Mr O was 
anxious about his renewal, I cant say Skyfire have acted unfairly in withdrawing their offer of 
renewal to Mr O based on his calls with members of staff at Skyfire. 
I note Mr O says, during a particular call, the call handler was rude and said, We want 
nothing to do with you. I can see Mr O has provided a mobile phone call log indicating this 
call took place on 14 March. Skyfire have provided all call recordings from this date, and 
before. Ive listened to all the call recordings but havent noted this comment being made. 
The call on 14 March lasts for 26 seconds during which Mr O calls Skyfire and asks to be 
transferred to the customer relations team. 
The call handler explains theyll pass Mr O through to them and the call ends. Mr Os call log 
suggests this call lasted 17 minutes, but Skyfire dont have a record of any call continuing 
beyond the call recording theyve provided. So, Ive carefully considered the information I do 
have and decided this on what I think is more likely than not. 
Mr Os call log shows he made a call on 14 March at 9.06am  this is also consistent with 
the system data provided by Skyfire. The system data shows this call connects to a call 
handler on 9.07am, and this is also supported by the time on the call recording provided by 
Skyfire. The system data then shows the call was placed on hold at 9.08am  which is 
supported by the call recording as the call handler places Mr O on hold to transfer him. The 
system data then shows Mr O is still on hold at 9.16am when the call handler attempts to 
transfer the call. Its not clear what happened after this, but Skyfire believe Mr O would likely have been on hold for seven minutes before ending the call or the call dropping  this makes 
up the 17 minutes showing on Mr Os call log. 
Skyfire believe this is the case as their call system doesnt register a number as being in a 
queue, and only registers a call once the call connects to a call handler. Im persuaded this 
was the case as Skyfire have also provided an audit trail showing access to Mr Os account 
on their system. This doesnt show any member of staff accessing Mr Os account during the 
time of the call  and I believe a call handler wouldve accessed Mr Os account had the call 
connected after being transferred. I say this because, from all the calls Ive listened to, the 
call handlers have always started off the call by asking Mr O security questions and 
matching the answers given by Mr O to the information showing on the system. Had this call 
connected after being transferred, I think its more likely than not a call handler wouldve 
carried out the security checks and wouldve had to access Mr Os account on the system  
and that being the case, this wouldve shown on the audit trail. Given this isnt showing on 
the audit trail, I believe its more likely than not the call didnt transfer to another call handler. 
So, on the basis theres no evidence of a call handler making a discourteous comment to   
Mr O, I cant say Skyfire have provided poor customer service. 
  
I understand Mr O was left upset and frustrated following his calls with Skyfire, and I 
acknowledge he feels the call handlers werent helpful. But I cant say Ive found evidence of 
poor customer service here. I also understand why Mr O has complained about his renewal 
price, but I hope he feels reassured that Ive carefully considered the pricing information from 
Skyfire. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr O unfairly. I wish to reassure 
Mr O Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman