DRN-2834898
The complaint
Mr C complains about limitations on how he can access the money in his account with 
Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr C told us that he first ran into a problem with accessing his Santander account in 
February 2020. He said that hed been trying to resolve this ever since, with no success.
Santander said it spoke to Mr C in March and April. It said Mr C doesnt have a mobile 
phone number, so was finding it difficult to receive One-Time Passcodes (OTP). Santander 
said it could send OTPs via email that Mr C could use to log on to his account, but it couldnt 
send OTPs via email for him to use to make an online payment. OTPs sent over email arent 
sufficiently secure for them to be used to make changes to an account.
Santander has offered to make these transactions over the phone instead. But Mr C said 
that Santander wasnt supporting vulnerable customers. He explained why he finds it difficult 
to speak on the phone.
Santander said it guided Mr C through logging in to his online banking again, without the 
bookmark he had been using, as that could cause problems. But Mr C then entered the 
wrong login details and these had to be resent to him in the post. Mr C then transferred 
money to another bank, so he could access it there. 
In November Mr C contacted Santander again to say he hadnt been able to access his 
accounts since February, and hadnt received an email OTP since March. Santander said it 
checked then. Email OTPs were being sent to Mr C, and it could confirm they were received. 
Santander said again that it can sent OTPs by email for Mr C to log on. It has shown us that 
his account isnt blocked, and he has been able to log on this way. But it has repeated that 
the only way Mr C can confirm transactions online is with an OTP sent to a mobile phone as 
a text message.
Mr C has told Santander he has no mobile phone because theres no reception where he 
lives, and there hasnt been for decades. Santander has said that if Mr C checks again, he 
should find that mobile phone coverage has improved. Santander says its reasonably 
confident that the signal where Mr C lives is good enough to receive text messages, which 
would contain the OTPs he wants. And its offered him a goodwill gesture of £25 that it says 
should cover the cost of purchasing a low-featured pay as you go phone. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Santander had 
been trying to fix the problems that Mr C encountered. It had suggested a different way for 
Mr C to log on, and it had resent login details when those were cancelled because Mr C 
made a mistake. Santander has confirmed it is sending OTPs by email, but says these cant 
be used to move money around, they only allow Mr C to view his account. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had to do more than it had done.
Mr C said wed only looked at part of his complaint. He said that Santander had recorded his 
email address wrongly. His website host said in February 2020 that it would cancel his email 
addresses because Santander had cancelled the payments. And Santander had been 
allowing payments on a card which expired in 2016. Mr C said he can now access his 
account, but he couldnt do anything like move money around. After discussion with 
Santander, our investigator said that all but the last of these issues would need to be logged 
as a separate complaint.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C has found this process all very frustrating. He says that Santander 
has blocked access to his account, and made various mistakes in sorting this out for him. 
And hes explained why its so important to him to be able to access online banking, and use 
that to manage his money. 
Santander says that its tried to help Mr C, when hes run into problems, like being locked out 
of his internet banking because of confusion over his security number. I have listened to 
calls where Santander has done that, so I do think its tried to help Mr C. 
But the core problem is that Santander has updated its security requirements for using 
online banking. Mr C can view his online banking without a mobile phone, Santander can 
send him an OTP by email so he can do that. But an OTP sent by email is much less secure 
than one sent to a mobile phone. So if he logs on using an email OTP then he cant move 
money around, as he would like. He cant do that unless he has a mobile phone number he 
can use to receive OTPs by text message. 
Mr C says theres just no mobile phone coverage where he is. I can see that reception is 
poor where he is. But Santander says a mobile would only need to work well enough to 
receive a text message. He doesnt need to be able to make calls on the phone. Santander 
thinks that, even though Mr C is in a remote environment with poor mobile coverage, that 
should work. And its offered to pay for this phone for him, if he wants to try that.
I understand that Mr C would very much prefer to use online banking to manage his account, 
rather than phone banking. And I also understand that Mr C wants to do this without 
adopting Santanders suggestion that he tries a mobile phone. But essentially, to support 
that, Santander would have to reduce the security on Mr Cs account. And I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to ask Santander to do that.
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but for that reason, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman