DRN-3717637
The complaint
Ms D says AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank (First Trust) treated her unfairly 
by applying charges to her account when her account became overdrawn. She says this 
caused her financial difficulty and has taken a toll on her health.
What happened
Ms D complained to First Trust about the charges applied to her account from 2008 when 
she went into unarranged overdraft. First Trust agreed to look at charges applied since July 
2014 when Ms D had previously raised a complaint regarding the charges applied to her 
account. First Trust said all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and that it was Ms Ds responsibility to monitor and manage her 
account to ensure sufficient funds were available to meet payment due.
Ms D was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ds concerns and reached the conclusion that we 
could only look at charges applied to Ms Ds account from July 2014 because Ms D had 
already raised a complaint about charges prior to this period and hadnt referred her 
complaint to this service within six months of First Trusts final response letter and didnt 
think exceptional circumstances prevented her from doing so.
Our adjudicator looked at the charges applied to Ms Ds account from July 2014 but didnt 
think there were any obvious signs of financial difficulty and didnt think First Trust had 
applied the charges unfairly. 
Ms D disagreed, she says she couldnt muster the physical and mental strength to pursue 
her complaint earlier and that it was the charges that caused her account to become 
overdrawn. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Why I can only look at part of Ms Ds complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
First Trust issued a final response on 9 July 2014. Ive seen a copy of this and Im
satisfied it fits the meaning for a final response as defined in the DISP rules - including the
referral rights setting out the six month time limit. This means Ms D had until 9 January 2015 
to refer the matter to this service. But she didnt do so until February 2021, so I conclude the 
complaint was referred to us out of time under the rules that I have to apply.
But Im allowed to investigate complaints referred outside of the time limit if Im satisfied the
delay was due to exceptional circumstances. Ms D has told us that around 2009 she was 
diagnosed with a mental health condition following a serious incident and continues to suffer 
from this today and receives treatment for other physical health conditions which has 
prevented her from referring her complaint to this service in time. 
I sympathise with Ms D and accept that shes had a lot to cope with. But in coming to my 
decision I have to be fair to both Ms D and First Trust and what I have to decide
is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Ms D wouldve prevented her from referring 
her complaint to us in time had she chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything Ms D has told us about her circumstances during
the relevant period. I understand why referring the complaint might not have been a priority 
for Ms D. But Ms D was able to raise her complaint with First Trust and had six months to 
bring her complaint to us following its final response letter. And although she has provided 
some evidence of her medical conditions the dates on this are many years after First Trust 
issued its final response letter and doesnt show me that it prevented her from bringing her 
complaint to us in time. 
So although Ive no doubt Ms D was suffering I havent seen anything to show me that her 
medical conditions prevented her from referring her complaint  indeed she was able to 
initially raise her complaint with First Trust in 2014 and again in 2021 as well as closing her 
account with it in 2017. So I think she still could have referred her complaint regarding the 
charges applied to her account within the time limits, especially as it only takes an email or 
telephone call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply and because Ms D didnt
refer her complaint in time my decision is Im unable to look into Ms Ds complaint about the 
charges applied to her account before July 2014. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ms D has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts First Trust charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at First Trusts various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms D if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ds account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms D was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where First Trust didnt treat Ms D fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that First Trust did treat Ms D unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Ms Ds statements for the period in question 
(2014-2017 when the account was closed), I can see little to suggest that First Trust ought to 
have realised Ms D might have been experiencing financial difficulties. Ms Ds statements show that Ms D was in credit with mostly a healthy balance far more than 
in overdraft. And when Ms D did become overdrawn it was sporadic and usually a result of 
discretionary spending, large cash withdrawals or regular transfers to savings accounts. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Ms D wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted First 
Trust to any potential financial difficulty. Despite this it is also worth noting First Trust have 
refunded charges in the past and as a gesture of goodwill offered to refund a further £50 of 
charges where it noted that an unpaid fee (that was applied correctly) was more than the 
amount that caused it. 
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for First Trust to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Ms Ds account 
was being used. And I dont think that First Trust treated Ms D unfairly or unreasonably and 
this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms D. But I hope she understands the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman