DRN-2778692
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement figure that hes been quoted by Secure Trust Bank plc, 
trading as Moneyway, for ending a hire purchase agreement under which a car had been 
supplied to him.
 
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway that he 
electronically signed in October 2019. He asked Moneyway for an early settlement quote in 
October 2020 and it said that he would need to pay £15,430.60 to settle the agreement. He 
then complained to it that the settlement figure hadnt been calculated correctly. It didnt 
agree that it had acted inappropriately and said that the settlement figure had been 
calculated in accordance with The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 
based on the outstanding balance at the time that it was generated.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She couldnt see that the settlement figure 
that Moneyway provided to Mr C was incorrect or inaccurate and she said that its not illegal 
for it to front load interest. 
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
formula that Moneyway employed to calculate the settlement figure hasnt been compared 
with the formula in the legislation and theres a discrepancy of £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the hire purchase agreement set out the basis on which the car was being supplied 
to Mr C  including the cash price of £16,000, the deposit of £1,000, the amount of 
credit of £15,000, the interest rate of 22.3% and the total amount payable of £25,010;
it said: Interest at the interest rate set out above is applied to the Amount of credit at 
the outset to calculate the interest payable and that Mr C had the right to repay early 
in full or in part; 
Mr C agreed to the interest being applied to the amount of credit at the outset to 
calculate the total interest payable  that is normal practice and isnt illegal as 
claimed by Mr C;
Mr C asked for a settlement quote in October 2020 and Moneyway provided him with 
a settlement figure of £15,430.60 which it says was calculated correctly and in 
accordance with the applicable regulations and included an interest rebate of 
£5,779.40;
its clear that Mr C thinks that the figure is too high and its higher than the amount 
that hes calculated using online tools;
we offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and on the basis of the evidence thats been 
submitted to us;
Moneyway hasnt provided the formula that it used to calculate Mr Cs settlement 
figure but it says that it was calculated in accordance with The Consumer Credit 
(Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 and I dont consider that its necessary or 
appropriate for me to try to calculate the amount that Mr C was required to pay to 
settle his agreement in October 2020;
Im not persuaded that Mr C has provided enough evidence to show that Moneyway 
has calculated the settlement figure incorrectly and I consider it to be more likely than 
not that the settlement figure was calculated correctly and in accordance with the 
regulations;
Moneyway has continued to charge Mr C interest under the terms of the agreement 
and I dont consider that there was any requirement for it to suspend interest while 
his complaint was made to this service; and 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Moneyway has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings with Mr C about the early settlement figure and I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to provide 
Mr C with a lower settlement figure, to pay him any compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman