DRN-3783562
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the service shed received from HiFX Europe Limited, trading as XE,
surrounding transfers she instructed from an overseas bank account to the UK.
What happened
Mrs D opened an account with XE as she wanted to transfer the proceeds from the sale of
an overseas property to a UK bank account. The transfer was to be made from an overseas
account held jointly in the names of Mrs D and her husband, and this led to XE requesting
some further documents from Mrs D to verify her husbands identity.
Mrs D then instructed several transfers to move the money into the UK in stages, but XE
explained that they still needed further information about Mrs Ds husband before the
transfers could be allowed to complete. Mrs D couldnt provide the further information
required so she requested the cancelation of the transfer contracts but was advised by XE
that there would be a significant cost to do so. Mrs D wasnt happy about this, so she raised
a complaint.
XE looked at Mrs Ds complaint. They confirmed that they hadnt received the required
information from about Mrs Ds husband to enable the transfers to be completed and they
didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs D in how they theyd managed the situation,
including the transfer cancelation fees. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with XEs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that XE had acted
unfairly or unreasonably, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 October 2022 as follows:
This includes listening to several recorded telephone calls between Mrs D and XE, 
including an initial call from 25 June 2021 where Mrs D first discusses her 
requirements and where XEs agent speaks with Mrs Ds husband to add him to the 
account.
Importantly, during this telephone call, theres no indication given by XEs agent of 
the future validation requirements that would be asked by XE in regard to Mrs Ds 
husband, including that XE would ask for proof of Mrs Ds husbands address in the 
UK  a document Mrs D was unable to provide and which ultimately led to Mrs D 
requesting the cancelation of the transfers shed initiated on her XE account.
Indeed, its notable that XEs agent on the initial call explains that Mrs Ds husband 
has now been added to the account and that all that needs to happen is that Mrs Ds 
husband needs to accept a confirmation sent via email, at which point Mrs D would 
be able to begin instructing the transfers as she wanted.
Upon consideration of the full circumstances of this complaint, I find it difficult to 
reach any conclusion other than had XEs agent explained to Mrs D the steps that 
would be needed to fully verify her husband before money received from him by XE 
would be transferred, including that Mrs D would need to provide proof of her 
husbands address in the UK  which as explained, Mrs D was unable to provide  I 
feel that Mrs D wouldnt have proceeded with the transfers in the same manner that 
led to the impasse about which Mrs D now complains.
Accordingly, given that I dont feel that Mrs D was given the information that she 
reasonably should have been given on the initial call, and given that I feel that Mrs D 
wouldnt have instructed the transfers she did instruct had she been given the more 
detailed information about what would be needed from her by XE to verify her 
husband on the account, it doesnt feel fair to me that Mrs D should have suffered the 
delays on the instructed transfers, and the fees she incurred when trying to then 
cancel those transfers, that she did.
Im aware that Mrs D instructed several transfers including one that she refers to in 
her conversations with XE as being a test transfer. And I note that the purpose of a 
test transfer is to allow it to complete successfully before initiating further transfers, 
which Mrs D didnt do in this instance, but instead initiated further transfers before the 
test transfer had completed.
But it remains my position that none of the further issues would in all likelihood have
occurred had Mrs D been made aware in the first instance that she would have to 
provide documents for her husband that she would be unable to provide. And this 
means that I feel the root cause for the issues that have occurred here is ultimately 
the non-provision of important information to Mrs D by XE.
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Mrs Ds favour and instructing XE to allow Mrs D to cancel all the 
transfer contracts instructed by her without charge. Ill also be instructing XE to make 
a further payment of £500 to Mrs D to compensate her for the inconvenience and 
upset that this matter caused, including the time that Mrs D spent trying to resolve 
this issue and the delays incurred by her in being able to transfer the money to the 
UK as she wanted  all of which I feel could have been avoided had Mrs D been 
properly informed in the first instance.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs D and HiFX the opportunity to provide any 
comments they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a final decision. HiFX 
confirmed they had no further information to provide, whereas Mrs D did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mrs Ds 
favour on the basis explained above. And I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint in Mrs Ds favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
HiFX must allow Mrs D to cancel all the transfer contracts without charge, making any 
reimbursements to Mrs D that might be necessary to achieve this.HiFX must also pay a further £500 to Mrs D as compensation for the trouble and upset that 
shed incurred here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HiFX Europe Limited, trading as XE, 
on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman