DRN-2147138
The complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with Lloyds (trading at the time as TSB) in 1991. Around the same 
time, he took out a PPI policy to protect his monthly mortgage payments.
Mr C has provided evidence that the policy initially cost £16 per month. If hed made a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly 
benefit of £400. Its likely that it would have done this for up to 12 months per successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time thats passed, Lloyds no longer has copies of any of the paperwork that 
Mr C signed when he took out the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or 
unreasonable, given that this was nearly 30 years ago.
Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional. Mr Cs told us that hes 
always been cautious when it comes to financial matters. So he suspects he would have 
been quite easily persuaded to take out the PPI. Hes also said that a degree of naivety 
on his part may have led him to believe that phrases such as you need this or 
everyone has this policy were good advice. 
Ive thought about what Mr Cs told us. But while Lloyds adviser may have 
recommended the PPI to him as a good idea, Ive seen nothing to make me think he was 
led to believe he had no option but to take out the cover. Whats more, the monthly 
benefit of £400 was significantly more than Mr Cs told us his monthly mortgage 
payments were at the time. I think the most likely reason for this was that there was a 
discussion about how much monthly benefit Mr C wished the policy to provide, and he 
chose a relatively high level of benefit to enable him to meet expenses in addition to the 
mortgage if he were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
On balance, I think its most likely that Mr C decided to take the PPI, knowing that he had 
a choice  although I can understand how he may no longer remember this so many 
years after the event.
Lloyds no longer has any record of how the policy was sold and  not surprisingly, given 
the time thats passed - Mr C cant remember either. Ive assumed for the purposes of 
this decision that the sale took place in one of the banks branches, and that Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to Mr C. This is to Mr Cs advantage, as it means Lloyds had a 
responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for him. Based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable for Mr C.
I acknowledge that Mr Cs told us hed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But 
based on our knowledge of PPI policies around the time, I think its likely that the policy 
would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Thats longer than Mr C would have been entitled to full sick pay for. 
Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr C received from his 
employer, so he could have used those to meet other expenses.
Mr Cs told us that he worked in a secure type of employment, and that his employer had 
a no compulsory redundancies policy. But I think its unlikely that Mr C could have 
guaranteed that he wouldnt be made redundant, or that the policy would continue 
indefinitely. Hes also mentioned that he could have relied on his parents for financial 
support if need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Mr Cs parents 
would have been in a position to help him if the need had arisen.
Mr Cs also mentioned that he had savings worth a few months of his salary. And he 
says he could easily have sold his house if necessary. But Ive borne in mind that hed 
chosen to protect his savings, rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. Having the PPI 
would have allowed him to continue to keep hold of his savings, or to use them to pay for 
other things if hed been off sick for an extended period, or if hed lost his job. And he 
wouldnt have had to go to the effort and expense of selling his house.
The mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, secured on Mr Cs 
property, and the consequences of falling behind with his monthly payments could have 
been serious. So taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful 
to Mr C.
The monthly premium for the PPI was set out in the letter Lloyds sent to Mr C enclosing 
the certificate of insurance. So I think Mr C would have known how much hed have to 
pay for the cover. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at 
any time without further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer 
wanted the cover.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from what hes told us 
about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely that Mr C would have been affected by 
any of these. So I dont think that better information would have put him off taking the 
policy out.
As well as complaining that the PPI was mis-sold, Mr C expressed dissatisfaction with the 
way Lloyds handled his complaint. Lloyds has offered to pay Mr C £100 to reflect this and 
Mr C has indicated that hes willing to accept that offer. Lloyds should make arrangements to 
pay Mr C that amount if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman