DRN-3179246
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about the refusal of a claim made under her pet insurance policy with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
On 10 November 2020, Mrs P made a claim under her policy for the cost of treatment for her 
puppy. He had a condition (cherry eye) which required surgery to his left eye. RSA refused 
the claim as Mrs P had only taken the policy out the day before making the claim and the 
policy excludes claims for conditions that arise in the first 14 days of the policy.
On 24 February 2021, the dog was found to have developed the same condition in his right 
eye, which also required surgery. Mrs P made a second claim to RSA but it refused the 
second claim for the same reasons, as it says it is one condition that has manifested in both 
eyes. RSA says the condition is common in Mrs Ps dogs breed for genetic reasons and the 
vets notes record that he warned her it was likely to develop in the right eye because of this. 
RSA therefore says both eyes have been affected by the same condition and as the first 
signs and symptoms of that condition started within the first 14 days of the policy, no 
treatment for cherry eye will be covered. 
Mrs P is unhappy with this and has made a number of points in support of her claim and 
complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
No-one ever told her the dog would definitely develop this condition in his right eye. 
There was nothing that could lead a reasonable person to conclude that the same 
condition would develop in the right eye, the vet only told her it was possible. 
RSA is using this as an excuse not to meet the claim and seems to have developed a 
policy that it will not meet claims for this condition in this breed of dog. 
If that is the case, then it should be open and transparent about it in the policy 
wording thereby enabling potential customers to make a clear and informed decision 
about the policy.
RSA should have told her after the first claim that she would not have been covered 
for a second claim for the same condition. She would then have been in a position to
decide whether she wanted to continue with the insurance and accept that risk. RSA 
kept this information to itself and as such has perpetrated a financial fraud.  
The treating vet also wrote to RSA to say that the fact the dog had surgery on his left eye for 
this condition had no bearing on the fact it was later also required on his right eye. The vet 
also said that cherry eye typically occurs as a result of trauma or excitability. 
Mrs P says this matter has caused her great distress and affected her ability to sleep as the 
operation is a large expense for her. Mrs P wants: (1) RSA to meet the claim and waive the 
excess; (2) RSA to be prevented from taking this claim into account when setting the 
premiums for any future policy (should she renew with it) as it would be unfair of RSA to 
attempt to recoup any claim costs by raising her premiums; and (3) RSA should be required 
to state openly in the policy documentation that it will not cover this eye condition in this 
breed of dog, so owners are aware of the risks they take in purchasing its insurance.
RSA reviewed the information from Mrs Ps vet but didnt change its mind. It maintains that 
the conditions were linked and therefore both excluded. RSA said the clinical notes from 
December 2020 (after the surgery was carried out) stated that Mrs P was told of the chance 
of recurrence and of the other eye also being affected, as the condition generally happens 
due to intrinsic weakness in the ligaments of the eye which is common in this breed of dog. 
And that underlying ligament weakness will affect both eyes. RSA says the vets letter 
contradicts what he had written in the dogs clinical notes and what its internal vets have said 
about the condition. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she thought RSA had established that it was likely the development of the same 
condition in both eyes, especially as it happened within a relatively short time, was linked; 
and as the first sign of the condition was within the first 14 days of the policy, RSA was 
entitled to refuse both claims. 
Mrs P does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mrs P says the vet has told her that trauma might be jumping off a sofa and there may not 
be any visible external signs of trauma and the two conditions are not linked. The 
investigator spoke to the treating vet after this and he confirmed what he had written to RSA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps policy says:
We will not pay for  illnesses which you or your vet were aware of in the first 14 days of 
your policy first starting or any illness that develops from them.
By illness we mean: diagnosed illness; signs or symptoms of illness (undiagnosed illness).
There is no dispute that the condition in the dogs left eye happened within the first 14 days 
of the policy and I therefore do not think RSA was unreasonable in refusing the first claim. It 
seems to also be agreed that the dog didnt have any apparent problems with the right eye 
until February 2021. However, I am not persuaded that the development of the condition in 
the right eye can reasonably be deemed to be an entirely separate and distinct issue, 
unrelated to the same condition in the right eye around three months earlier. 
Mrs Ps vet has said the condition can be caused by trauma or excitability. He wrote:
The right eye was closely examined at the time of his previous surgery an no abnormalities 
were detected. Prolapsed nictitans membranes typically occur to due trauma to the area / 
hyperexcitability etc
.
The fact [the dog]  underwent surgery on his left gland has no impact on either the need 
for surgery on his right gland or alter the likelihood of him developing contralateral disease in 
the future. As such, I consider the two episodes to be unrelated.
However, this is not consistent with his notes in the dogs clinical history. On the date of 
surgery to the left eye the vet wrote: Owner aware re chance of recurrence / chance of other 
gland following suit."  And there is another entry in the vets notes dated 22 February 2021, 
which says: given L eye already done, suspect will need at some point down the line.I think it is reasonable to interpret this as meaning he thought surgery would have been 
necessary at some point down the line but even if that is not what the vet was suggesting, 
it seems to me he was linking the occurrence of the condition in both eyes. So in 
consultation with Mrs P and in the notes, the treating vet was warning that it is likely the 
other eye would be affected. While, as Mrs P says, no one would appear to have told her the 
condition would definitely affect both eyes, this doesnt matter and is not required for the two 
occurrences to be linked. 
The vets notes suggest he thought it likely the same condition would affect both eyes and 
he took steps to warn Mrs P of this possibility. Theres also evidence that this condition can 
be due to an inherent weakness of the ligaments in the eye prevalent in certain breeds of 
dogs, including Mrs Ps dog; and it developed in Mrs Ps dog while it was still a young puppy, 
which supports this. 
In addition, while the vet has said the condition can also be caused by trauma there is no 
suggestion in any of the notes that this was the cause of the occurrence in either eye. Mrs P 
has said evidence of trauma might not be apparent but without any convincing evidence that 
the occurrence of the condition in the right eye was caused by trauma, I am not persuaded 
that this is enough to require RSA to meet the claim.
Having considered all the evidence, I am satisfied that RSA has established the occurrence 
of the same condition in both eyes was related and, as this was first identified in the first 14 
days of the policy, it is not acting unfairly or unreasonably in refusing the second claim. 
The refusal of these claims doesnt meant that RSA will not cover this condition in these 
dogs. Mrs Ps claims have been refused only because it developed within the first 14 days of 
the policy. In any case, I cannot make the recommendations Mrs P has asked about RSA 
changing policy terms, even if I agreed it needed to (which I dont), as we do not regulate 
insurers. And I cant ask RSA not to take account of any claims made in setting future 
premiums.
Mrs P has also said that RSA should have told her that any further claims for this condition 
would not be covered and she has been defrauded as a result of its failure to do so. I do not 
agree it had any obligation to do this. It explained its reasons for refusing the first claim and 
Mrs P was aware of the policy wording it relied on to do so. 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman