DRN-1921874
 
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly transferred £2,000 from their 
account, instead of the £1,000 they'd intended to transfer. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs E called HSBC to request a transfer of £1,000 from her and Mr E's 
joint account to their son's account. The bank representative mis-heard the amount, 
however, and thought Mrs E had asked to transfer £2,000. But when the representative 
checked the amount, Mrs E confirmed that she wanted to transfer £2,000. As a result, 
£2,000 was transferred, instead of the £1,000 Mrs E had intended.     
When Mrs E told the bank about the mistake, it offered to contact Mr and Mrs E's son to 
recover all the money. They didn't want the bank to do that, however, and neither did they 
want to ask him for half the money back. They explained that he's undergoing medical 
treatment and that they assist him financially and didn't feel  comfortable doing that. 
HSBC offered £50 in compensation, but Mr and Mrs E thought it should do more than that 
and referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened, but thought HSBC's offer was fair. 
He didn't think it would be fair to ask the bank to return £1,000 as Mr and Mrs E had asked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusion as the investigator did.
It's clear that there was a misunderstanding in the initial telephone call - on both sides. The 
bank's representative thought Mrs E had asked to transfer £2,000; and when asked to 
confirm the amount, Mrs E didn't correct the misunderstanding.
But the key point here is in my view that Mr and Mrs E could approach their son and seek 
the return of the overpayment, but have chosen not to do so. I can understand their 
reluctance to do that and even more so that they didn't want the bank to try to recover the 
full amount. But in the circumstances, I don't believe it would be fair to require HSBC to 
make up the difference between the intended amount of the transfer and the actual amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require HSBC UK Bank PLC to do anything further to resolve 
Mr and Mrs E's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.Mike Ingram
Ombudsman