DRN-4164942
The complaint
Mr C complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIL) and their decision to decline 
the claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. Unfortunately, on 31 December 
2022, Mr Cs car seized after driving through a flooded area of road. So, he contacted AIL to 
make a claim on his insurance policy.
But AIL declined Mr Cs claim. They felt Mr C had failed to safeguard his car when driving 
through the flooded area. And so, they felt the claim was excluded under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mr C was unhappy with this decision, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C didnt think AILs decision to decline the claim was fair. He thought hed acted 
reasonably, given the circumstance he found himself, when driving through the flooded road. 
So, he didnt agree that hed deliberately caused damage, or acted negligent in some other 
way. And because of this, he wanted AIL to overturn their decision and accept the claim.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Mr C had taken the 
conscious decision to drive through a body of water, and they thought Mr C couldve acted 
differently, for example taking an alternative route. So, as this water led to the damage to the 
car, they felt their decision to decline the claim was a fair one and didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think AIL had acted 
fairly when relying on the exclusion they referenced to decline Mr Cs claim. Our investigator 
didnt think AIL had evidence that Mr C had deliberately damaged his car or acted in a 
negligent way. So, our investigator thought AIL should reassess the claim against the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, without the exclusion condition they referenced 
when declining the claim initially.
Mr C accepted this recommendation. But AIL didnt. While they recognised the risk posed to 
Mr C at the time he chose to drive through the water was minimal as other cars had passed 
it successfully, they thought a risk still remained and that Mr C couldve avoided the damage 
had he taken a different action. So, while they accepted Mr Cs actions may not have been 
deliberate, they didnt think Mr C had taken reasonable steps to protect the car. And 
because of this, they maintained they were fair to rely on the exclusion and decline the 
claim. As AIL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
When considering whether a business such as AIL has declined a claim fairly, I must be 
satisfied AIL first acted within the terms and conditions when declining the claim. And where 
an exclusion is relied upon, the onus is on the insurer to show that the exclusion applies. 
In this situation, I dont think AIL have satisfied me that the exclusion has been fairly applied 
on this occasion. And Ill explain why.
Ive seen in the decline letter sent to Mr C on 13 January 2023 that AIL felt Mr C had failed to 
comply with the condition of the policy that states AIL wont cover deliberate loss or damage 
to your car caused by anybody insured by this policy.
In this situation, AIL have said that, as Mr C chose to drive through the body of water, he did 
so knowing there was a risk of damage and so, any claim for this damage falls under this 
exclusion. AIL have also explained that it is their right under the policy to admit negligence 
for any accident or claim on your behalf. And as they felt Mr C had failed to adhere to the 
condition which states he must protect your car from loss or damage they thought they 
were fair to decide Mr C had acted negligently here. But I dont agree.
It's not disputed by either Mr C or AIL that, on the night of the damage, Mr C stopped his car 
to assess the level of water flooding the road he was travelling down. And Mr Cs testimony 
that other cars had passed through this body of water in front of him, and coming the 
opposite way, is also accepted and not in dispute. So, I think its fair for me to rely on this 
version of events.
I also have to consider that, at the time Mr C took the decision to pass through the body of 
water, it was dark and on a narrow country lane with traffic behind him and passing on the 
other side of the road. Mr C has provided a video depicting the exact area of the road where 
the body of water was at around the same time of night and AIL have accepted this is a 
different area to the images they assessed, and that these images were also taken at 
another time of day.
So, Ive thought about this version of events to think about the actions Mr C took, and 
whether I think they were negligent. And to do this, Ive thought about whether I think Mr C 
took an action that the majority of people in his situation wouldnt have done. And I dont 
think thats the case here.
Considering the time of night and the impact this wouldve had on his ability to assess the 
body of water, the size of the road and difficulty Mr C wouldve had in turning around and the 
fact other cars were passing through the water in both directions without encountering 
difficulty, I think Mr Cs decision to proceed was a reasonable one. And so, I dont think its 
fair for AIL to say Mr C acted negligently, or that he failed to take reasonable steps to protect 
his car from loss or damage. In fact, I think Mr C taking the time to assess the situation 
showed him taking reasonable steps to try and ensure the safety of his car at that time.
The exclusion AIL have relied upon states explicitly that AIL wont cover damage caused 
deliberately. Considering the above, and the evidence provided to me, I dont think AIL have 
satisfied me, on the balance of probability and beyond reasonable doubt, that Mr C took an 
action with the deliberate intent of damaging his car. In fact, I think his actions show the 
opposite. And because of this, I dont think AIL have acted fairly when declining Mr Cs 
claim, relying on this exclusion. As I dont think AIL have acted fairly, Ive then thought about 
what I think AIL should do to put things right.Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr C back in the position he wouldve 
been, had AIL acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, had AIL acted fairly, I dont think they wouldve relied on the deliberate 
damage exclusion to decline Mr Cs claim. So, to place Mr C back in the position he 
wouldve been, I think AIL should reassess the claim without this exclusion. I think this is the 
fairest course of action, which falls in line with our services approach to situations such as 
this one. 
If following this reassessment there are no other applicable exclusions, Id expect AIL to pay 
the claim.
I understand AIL are unlikely to agree with this outcome. And I want to reassure AIL Ive 
considered their comments which set out their rationale and logic for declining the claim and 
the use of the deliberate damage exclusion. But I hope this decision sets out the way Ive 
considered the complaint and the claim circumstances, and why I think theyve acted unfairly 
on this occasion, in this individual circumstance.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd and I direct them to take the following action:
Reassess Mr Cs claim without the deliberate damage exclusion to determine 
whether the claim is one that is valid and should be accepted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman