DRN-3516332
The complaint
S and S, a company, complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim on their 
commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
The complaint is brought by Mr and Mrs J on behalf of S and S.
All references to Aviva include their claims handlers.
What happened
The facts and complaint points are well known to both parties, so I dont propose to recite 
them all in considerable detail. Instead I have summarised them below. Thats not intended 
as a discourtesy to either party; rather it reflects the informal nature of this Service.
S and S had a dispute with their former supplier, H. H alleged that S and S were in breach of 
contract because theyd entered into a new commercial relationship with another supplier. 
As a result, H applied for an interim injunction against S and S. 
S and S made a claim on their Aviva legal expenses insurance policy for cover to defend the 
claim and application for an injunction against them. They also instructed Solicitors to act for 
them. Whilst the legal expenses insurance claim developed, the claim progressed with S and 
Ss Solicitors acting for them throughout.
The pre action letter from H to S and S was sent in early September 2021. By the end of 
November, S and S had successfully negotiated a settlement with H but not before attending 
a hearing in relation to Hs application for an injunction and being served with a claim form 
which was also served on Mr J personally.
The settlement included a term that each party bear their own costs. Mr and Mrs J say S and 
Ss costs amounted to over £107,000. S and S want Aviva to reimburse them for these 
costs. 
Aviva rejected S and Ss position. After corresponding variously on the issues raised, they 
said:
They were prepared to offer S and S cover from 11 October 2021 which was when they 
were reasonably able to consider and accept the claim.
They werent prepared to pay S and Ss Solicitors hourly rate as charged. Instead they 
offered an hourly rate of £255 per hour plus VAT which reflects the County Court 
guidelines for a Grade A Solicitor in the region in which S and S are based. This was a 
departure from their earlier position which was an offer of £100 per hour plus VAT in 
accordance with their terms of appointment sent to S and Ss Solicitor.
They would only pay the costs associated with the breach of contract claim but not the 
intellectual property issues nor those related to malicious falsehood claims or a claim in 
the USA.
They wouldnt pay any costs that fall outside the terms of appointment sent to S and Ss 
Solicitors and in accordance with the determination of a costs draftsman they instructed.
S and S dont agree. Broadly, their complaint points are as follows:
Their claim should be covered from September 2021, which is when Aviva was notified 
of the claim. The fact that it took Aviva so long to review matters isnt something they 
should be penalised for.
Their claim was one which required intensive work within a short timeframe which was of 
benefit to Aviva because it settled early. As such their costs should be settled 
accordingly.
They had the freedom to choose their own Solicitor. Limiting the costs payable to their 
Solicitor renders this meaningless.
H had the benefit of a London law firm acting for it together with Barristers including a 
QC. It was important for S and S to have comparative representation, which should be 
funded by Aviva.
The terms of appointment sent to S and Ss Solicitor by Aviva dont form part of their 
contract of insurance, so S and S are not bound by them. As such Aviva should accept 
the costs theyve paid.
Our investigator considered everything and concluded that Aviva didnt do anything wrong. S 
and S dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think S and Ss complaint should be upheld for the same reasons set 
out by the investigator. Ive set out my findings in relation to this under the headings below 
for ease of reference.
Start Date of Cover
The starting point are the policy terms. They say:
 We will not provide indemnity in respect of any claim  if any Costs and Expenses are 
incurred prior to Our written acceptance of a claim.
S and S first notified their claim to Aviva on 13 September which was four days after they 
became aware of Hs application for an interim injunction. On 17 November Aviva gave S 
and S the option to choose their own Solicitor. Three days after this S and S told Aviva that 
proceedings had commenced. The next day S and Ss Solicitor got in touch with Aviva. In 
response they were provided with a claims management form to complete to allow Aviva to 
decide whether the claim was covered and, if so, confirm cover. The form was returned by 
the Solicitors the following day. A week later Aviva confirmed cover was in place.
I know S and S feel that cover should start from the date they notified the claim to Aviva. But 
proceedings had already begun by the point at which they did this. Indeed, S and S had 
already received a letter before action from H twelve days before contacting Aviva. So, Aviva werent given considerable notice of the request for cover- such that they had time to do this 
before legal costs were likely to be incurred. 
I appreciate that when S and S did contact Aviva, there was urgency for them to take action 
to respond to the application for an injunction from H- which S and S did by instructing their 
own Solicitors- but I dont think this means Aviva shouldnt have been given a reasonable 
opportunity to consider the claim and whether it fell within cover. Aviva did this by asking for 
a claims management report from S and Ss Solicitors. Once provided, it took Aviva seven 
days to confirm cover was in place. This wasnt particularly long given the nature of the claim 
and the fact that it required an internal review by Aviva. Given the policy requires Avivas 
written acceptance of the claim before cover can be provided and there were no 
unreasonable delays in that acceptance being provided, I dont think I can reasonably say 
that Aviva should fund any costs before 11 October 2021.
Solicitors Costs
Once legal proceedings have become necessary, or have started, we take the view that a 
policyholder is entitled to choose their own Solicitor to represent them in their legal claim. In 
this case S and S chose their own Solicitor to act for them. Their Solicitors werent bound by 
the terms of the insurance policy between S and S and Aviva because they were not a party 
to it.  Because of this Aviva asked S and Ss Solicitors to agree to their standard terms of 
appointment which are referred to in the policy as follows:
(2) Claims  leal representation.
(f) An Appointed Representative will be appointed by Us and represent an Insured Person 
according to Our standard terms of appointment. 
The standard terms of appointment set out that the hourly rate chargeable was £100 per 
hour plus VAT. S and Ss Solicitor rejected this. Aviva later increased their offer to £255 per 
hour plus VAT in line with the County Court guidelines for a Grade A Solicitor for the area 
that S and S were based in.
S and S remain unhappy with this. They feel that freedom of choice wasnt offered because 
the rate being offered rendered that choice meaningless. I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate 
that H instructed London based Solicitors and Barristers, including a QC, that doesnt mean 
that a firm based in the area in which S and S was located couldnt have competently dealt 
with claim like the one that H had brought against S and S. When reaching this conclusion, I 
havent seen anything to suggest there were no Solicitors in that area that could have dealt 
with a commercial litigation matter such as the claim that S and S was involved in. And Aviva 
did recognise the value and complexity of the case by offering a rate commensurate with a 
Grade A fee earner, which I think was right in the circumstances. 
It might have been that a Solicitor from local firm would have advised that a QC or specialist 
Barrister be instructed in this claim for S and S, given the issues in dispute. And that might 
have been appropriate, but as matters stand, I cant say that Avivas offer was unreasonable 
or that Aviva need to pay anymore in respect of S and Ss Solicitors charge out rate. It was 
after all S and Ss decision to instruct the Solicitors they did. That wasnt a decision that 
Aviva was involved in so I cant say that Aviva are obliged to pay whatever rate that firm was 
charging.
I note that S and S have made reference to various pieces of legislation. In doing so I wish to 
draw their attention to Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Anor 
[2012] EWCA Civ 1633). In that case the Court of Appeal decided that reference in the policy to the insurers standard terms of appointment is enough to incorporate them into the 
insurance contract and that the Companies (legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations1990 
doesnt permit policyholders to choose whichever firm they want at whatever cost, with the 
expectation that the insurer will cover all the costs involved. So, the Court didnt conclude 
that the amount offered by the insurer would always be acceptable. What it said was that a 
legal expenses insurer has the right to restrict what it would pay to a non-panel solicitor, 
provided the remuneration is not so low as to render the policyholders freedom of choice 
meaningless. For the reasons set out above- and particularly in the absence of any evidence 
to suggest there were no firms of Solicitors in the area in which S and S were based that 
could competently conduct their litigation, I dont think that this applies as S and Ss freedom 
of choice doesnt appear to have been rendered meaningless.
S and S have referred to The European Court of Justice (ECJ) case - Eschig v UNIQA 
Sachversicherung. This related to the freedom of policyholders to choose their own Solicitor, 
even in a group action. But theres nothing in that case thats inconsistent with this Services 
approach to freedom of choice of Solicitor. In a case like this, that freedom starts when 
proceedings become necessary and S and S did have the freedom to choose their own 
Solicitor- but for the principles established in Brown-Quinn, they were not entitled to pass on 
whatever costs those Solicitors wanted to charge to Aviva.
S and S have made the point that a considerable amount of work needed to be completed 
by their Solicitors in a short time frame in order to resolve the dispute in the way that they 
did. In doing so they saved Aviva money by bringing the dispute to conclusion. I dont 
disagree with this. But legal expenses insurance is subject to its policy terms being met. In 
this case S and S werent able to claim for all their costs because cover wasnt in place from 
the start of the dispute, the charge out rate reasonably being offered by Aviva didnt match S 
and Ss Solicitors costs for the reasons set out above. And for the reasons I go on to 
mention, the policy doesnt cover everything that S and S were claiming for. 
Extent of Cover
I know S and S is unhappy that Aviva is only offering cover in respect of the breach of 
contract claim but not anything in relation to intellectual property issues nor those related to 
malicious falsehood claims or a claim in the USA.
Ive looked carefully at the policy and considered the extent of cover available under it. 
Having done so, theres nothing that in my view extends to covering the additional claims S 
and S wants Aviva to fund. Whilst the policy doesnt specifically mention claims for malicious 
falsehoods (and consequently doesnt appear to cover it), it does refer to, and exclude 
intellectual property issues. Because of this, Aviva doesnt need to pay any of S and Ss 
costs associated with these claims. As the investigator said, if S and S is able to 
demonstrate by way of a legal opinion, that malicious falsehoods fall within one of the 
matters the policy lists as covering then Id expect Aviva to reconsider the costs claimed for 
this.
Aviva have said they wont fund any costs associated with legal action outside of the 
territorial limits set out by the policy. Having considered the policy I agree that cover doesnt 
extend to any fees associated with legal work in the USA because that territory isnt included 
within the policy limits.
Terms of AppointmentIve already explained how the terms of appointment between Aviva and S and Ss Solicitors 
form part of S and Ss policy- namely that representation for an Appointed Representative 
(as defined) will act under Avivas standard terms of appointment.
Those terms of appointment specifically exclude the costs of communicating with Aviva- 
largely because this cost isnt recoverable from S and Ss opponent and costs claimed tend 
to mirror this logic. For this reason, I think that Aviva are entitled to disallow any of these 
costs.
I appreciate that S and S are unhappy about some of the other terms of appointment 
between Aviva and their Solicitors. Having reviewed the terms of appointment, Im not 
persuaded that theres anything in them which impacts negatively on S and S or are usual so 
I dont think Aviva have done anything wrong by relying on them in this case in the way that 
they have.
Costs Draftsman 
Aviva appointed a costs draftsman to assess the costs claimed by S and S. The cost 
draftsman determined that some of the work undertaken wasnt covered by the terms of 
appointment, other parts werent covered by the policy and some of the sums incurred 
werent reasonable or necessary (also in accordance with the terms of the policy).
I know that S and S disagrees with this determination, but I havent seen anything from a 
comparable cost draftsman that contradicts this position. Aviva were entitled to rely on the 
advice of the cost draftsman so in the absence of anything from a comparable costs expert, 
I dont think its reasonable for me to direct it to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold S and Ss complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J on 
behalf of S and S to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman