DRN-3335814
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Project Imagine Ltd trading as Dozens blocked and closed her 
account. And havent released money held in the account back to her. Shes also unhappy 
about the service provided by Dozens.
What happened
Mrs A had an account with Dozens.
  
In September 2020,  Dozens blocked Mrs As account while it carried out a review after a 
payment of £5,000 was paid into her account. As part of the review Dozens asked Mrs A for 
more information about the payment.  
Mrs A initially told Dozens that she was expecting the £5,000 from a mate. Mrs A then told 
Dozens that shed sold her car to a friend for just under £7,000, and the £5,000 was the 
remaining money her friend owed her for the sale. She said that she intended to use the 
money to buy a new car to help transport her children. Dozens asked Mrs A to provide 
evidence to support her explanation, but she didnt give Dozens anything. Instead, Mrs A 
explained that shed actually sold her car to a relative and he had been delaying repaying 
her. And the £5,000 was the money she was owed. 
Dozens werent satisfied with Mrs As explanation and asked her for more information. 
Mrs A then told Dozens that her husband had lent her the £5,000 to buy a car. And she 
provided a copy of an invoice from a car dealer which showed shed put down a £500 
deposit on a car she wanted to buy on 10 September 2020. Dozens reviewed the paperwork 
but didnt think it showed Mrs A was entitled to the money. Following this, it decided to close 
Mrs As account immediately.
 
Mrs A complained to our service. She said the money paid into her account belongs to her 
and shes now out of pocket. She said her husband had lent her the money and she was 
now having to repay him. She explained that being without the money had made it difficult to 
make ends meet and shed not been able to buy a car. So, she wants Dozens to release the 
funds and pay her compensation for the trouble and upset shed suffered.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint and asked her for more information 
about the payment made into her account. Mrs A said the money had been lent to her by her 
husband. And she needed the money released.  
The investigator considered Mrs As explanation, but she didnt think Dozens had done 
anything wrong. She said Dozens were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when it blocked and reviewed her account. And it had closed Mrs As account in line with the 
terms of the accounts and relevant regulations. She also didnt think Dozens had provided 
Mrs A with poor service. 
Mrs A disagreed. She wants the money returned to her. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, Dozens has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks 
to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial crime such as fraud. The 
terms of Mrs As account also permit Dozens to review an account and ask for information. 
I can see that Dozens completed its review within 18 days and that there werent any 
unreasonable delays. Im also satisfied that they kept Mrs A informed about what they were 
doing and made it clear about what information it needed her to provide during its review 
process. So, I cant say Dozens did anything wrong when it blocked Mrs As account. 
Having looked at the activity on Mrs As account I can see that the £5,000 payment was out 
of character. Mrs A had not previously received any large payments and the account had 
only recently been opened in May 2020. And had only received small credits. So, I can 
understand why Dozens had concerns about the payment and wanted to find out more about 
it. And I dont think it was unreasonable that they asked Mrs A for an explanation. 
The crux of Mrs As complaint is that she wants Dozens to release the £5,000. Ive looked at 
the evidence Mrs A has provided which she says shows she is entitled to the money. But Im 
afraid I dont agree. Ive looked at the invoice Mrs A has provided that she says shows she 
intended to use the money to buy a car. Ive no reason to doubt that this was what she 
planned to do with the money. But this doesnt mean she is entitled to the funds. 
Ive also kept in mind that Mrs A has provided at least three different explanations for why 
the money was paid into her account and who gave her the money  first it was from a 
mate, then a relative who owed her money from a car shed sold, and finally her husband 
who had lent her the money to buy another vehicle. Its not clear to me why Mrs A has taken 
this stance  if as she says shes entitled to the money. I note too that the account from 
which the money originated isnt in the name of Mrs As husband. So, when I weigh 
everything up, this makes it very difficult for me to place much weight on what hes said.
It maybe that Mrs A can now provide more information about the funds. But, in the 
circumstances, I can understand why Dozens didnt consider Mrs A had adequately 
explained her entitlement to the money. So, I cant say Dozens has treated Mrs A unfairly 
when it decided not to release the money to her. Im satisfied it was entitled to make this 
decision, doing so in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, I dont consider theres 
any basis on which I can fairly and reasonably require Dozens to release the funds to 
Mrs A. 
I then turn to Dozens decision to close Mrs As account. Its generally for financial 
businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that they must keep a customer or compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Dozens acted in 
line with the account terms when it decided to close Mrs As account. So, I cant say it 
treated Mrs A unfairly. In summary, I recognise how strongly Mrs A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
it was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Dozens has acted unreasonably 
and treated Mrs A unfairly when it reviewed and closed her account. So, I wont be asking 
Dozens to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman