DRN-2949101
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to tell him that a repayment plan would 
be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies.
What happened
Mr L says he was asked by BoS in 2019 to repay his overdraft. He says he agreed to do so 
and asked BoS if that agreement would affect his credit file and credit score. Mr L says he 
was told it would not and made the required payments. He says he agreed a further plan and 
again asked BoS similar questions about his credit file and again was told there would not be 
an impact. Mr L says he found out some time later that BoS had reported the arrangement to 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and that information affected his mortgage 
application. He says he had the money to repay the debt in full had he been told about the 
impact on his credit file and would like the adverse information removed.
BoS accepts it didnt deal with parts of Mr Ls complaint as it should have and has paid £150 
for that, which was for not registering a complaint. It says it told Mr L that it would report the 
arrangements to the CRAs and repeated that information in a number of letters to him.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought BoS could have been clearer 
in explaining the impact of the first arrangement, but it had sent a number of letters to him 
which did explain that his credit file could be affected. The investigator recommended that 
BoS pay a further £50 compensation. And said BoS wasnt responsible for the safe delivery 
of mail.
BoS has agreed to pay that compensation and has also agreed to change the date of the 
arrangement being reported to the CRAs.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and maintains he wasnt told the arrangements would be 
reported to the CRAs and says he didnt receive BoSs letters. He says BoS acted 
irresponsibly and its actions were unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS has made a fair and reasonable 
further compensation offer of £50. I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at BoSs records and can see that it sent a number of letters to Mr L about his 
account and told him that it would report the account position to the CRAs. Those letters 
were sent to Mr L before the agreement in August 2019 and after. I think it likely Mr L would 
have received some of those letters, as he refers to receiving them during the telephone call 
of 23 August 2019. So, Im satisfied that by August 2019 Mr L ought reasonably to have 
been aware BoS had concerns about the overdraft and that it would be reporting the account 
position to the CRAs.
I have listened to the telephone call between BoS and Mr L of 23 August 2019. Having done 
so Im satisfied that Mr L didnt ask if the repayment plan would be reported to the CRAs 
and affect his credit score. But Im satisfied BoS did say that the account status would be 
reported to the CRAs and asked Mr L if he had any questions. Im also satisfied that Mr L 
was told by BoS that he would receive a letter about the agreement. So, I dont think BoS 
misled Mr L and I also think Mr L ought reasonably to have been aware that this was an 
arrangement in which interest was suspended which would be reported to the CRAs.
I can see from Boss records that it sent Mr L a letter following this telephone call in which it 
was made clear that his credit file may be affected. I dont know why Mr L didnt receive this 
letter and others but that is not something I can fairly hold BoS responsible for as it isnt 
responsible for the delivery of mail. And I would have expected Mr L to have contacted BoS 
if he didnt receive the letter of 28 August 2019 at the time, but in any event, I think Mr L was 
told about the possible implication for his credit file during the call.
I have listened to the call between Mr L and BoS in December 2019. Having done so Im 
satisfied that again Mr L didnt ask it if the arrangement would be reported to the CRAs. But 
Im satisfied that at the time of the call the first repayment plan had ended, and that Mr L was 
told he would receive a letter about the agreement. I have made clear that I appreciate Mr L 
says he didnt receive these letters, but I would have expected him to have asked BoS about 
those letters if he didnt receive them as Im satisfied he was told they would contain details 
about his arrangements.
Overall, Im satisfied that during the calls I have listened to Mr L didnt ask BoS if his 
arrangement would affect his credit file. But Im satisfied that BoS did tell Mr L that it may 
affect his credit file both during a call and in a number of letters. I appreciate Mr L says he 
was in a position to repay the overdraft in full if he had been aware of the reporting to the 
CRAs. But I have not seen direct evidence of that and can see the overdraft was in place for 
some time as well as the repayment plan. I also think it ought reasonably to have been clear 
to Mr L that he was entering a short-term repayment plan which was interest free which 
would be reported to the CRAs and would have an impact on his credit file.
I can see that BoS has agreed to pay £50 for not being as clear as it could have during the 
August 2019 call. I have made clear overall that I think enough information was given about 
this issue which was repeated in writing. So, I will leave it to Mr L to decide if he wishes to 
accept that offer.  Im also satisfied that BoS has fairly agreed to amend Mr Ls credit file to 
report the arrangement to the CRAs from a later date in circumstances where I dont think it 
needed to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find that Bank of 
Scotland plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £50 compensation for part of the 
complaint. Mr Ls acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman