DRN-3487749
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to decline her income protection claim. Shes also unhappy about the time it took 
L&G to make a claims decision. 
What happened
Mrs B holds income protection cover with L&G. The aim of the cover is to pay benefit in the 
event she cant work due to illness or injury. 
In November 2020, Mrs B stopped work and made a claim to L&G.
Mrs B later complained to L&G about the time it was taking to assess her claim. L&G 
accepted it had taken too long and paid her £430 compensation. It then made a claims 
decision and declined Mrs Bs claim. L&G didnt think Mrs B had shown that she met the 
policys definition of incapacity, as it considered she had stopped work due to work-related 
stress. Unhappy with this, Mrs B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. She thought L&Gs claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. Whilst she 
accepted that L&G had caused delays in assessing the claim, she thought the compensation 
L&G had offered was fair. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy pays benefit in the event of incapacity for own occupation. The policy explains 
this means:
we will consider you to be incapacitated once weare satisfied that you have no capacity 
for working in your own occupation, on any basis, as a direct result of your injury or illness.
Occupation is defined as:
Any trade, profession or type of work resulting in a salary or wage if employed, or for profit 
or reward if self-employed. It is not specific to any particular employer or job description.
Although the policy says the insured should have no capacity for working on any basis, I 
think a strict interpretation of that would be unfair. Instead, Id expect Mrs B to show that she 
couldnt carry out the material and substantial duties of her occupation. This would need to 
be the case throughout the four-week deferred period and beyond.
I see that Mrs B was initially signed off work with low mood and work-related stress by a 
private GP. A few days later she emailed her own GP and explained the various stressors in 
her life. She also explained that due to problems at work, she was not mentally able to 
work.
At the end of November 2020, Mrs B was reviewed by her GP who noted she had low mood 
and stress. The GP referred to issues that Mrs B was experiencing in her particular 
workplace, as well as some other medical problems she was experiencing. They noted that 
she had been prescribed antidepressant medication from her doctor outside the UK, and she 
had been having online therapy. She was signed off work with depression and work-related 
stress. However, later sick notes only referred to Mrs B as having work-related stress.
L&G wrote to Mrs Bs UK GP for more information, and it was confirmed that her diagnosis 
was stress related to work. The GP explained that Mrs Bs previous occupation environment 
was the cause of her stress. 
Although Mrs B had been prescribed a low dose of antidepressant medication and we know 
she was taking part in counselling, theres no evidence related to that counselling. Her 
treating doctor outside the UK said they thought she was experiencing depression. But 
theres no further information about the symptoms Mrs B was experiencing, or if the doctor 
thought those symptoms prevented her from carrying out her occupation.
I note that some months after stopping work, Mrs B was in correspondence with her 
employer to try and adjust her working environment, but they apparently werent agreeable 
to this. Due to this, Mrs B thought she needed to stay off sick for a longer period. 
As our investigator has explained, the policy provides benefit when someone cant work due 
to illness or injury, and it isnt there to provide benefit whilst there are employment disputes 
ongoing. I appreciate that Mrs B had been diagnosed with depression, but the evidence 
supports that she stopped work due to issues with her employer that were causing her 
stress. The evidence doesnt suggest that Mrs B was experiencing symptoms of such 
severity that she wouldnt be able to carry out the material and substantial duties of her role 
with another employer. 
Im therefore satisfied it was fair for L&G to turn down Mrs Bs claim. 
Mrs B has provided further medical evidence in support of her claim; however, I note that 
this relates to her health many months after the end of the deferred period. It doesnt support 
that she met the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period. So I dont find that 
this should change L&Gs claims decision. 
Ive also considered the length of time it took L&G to make a claims decision. 
Our investigator has set out what happened in some detail, so I wont do the same here. 
Though I think its apparent that L&G did cause some avoidable delays. It delayed 
requesting Mrs Bs medical records by around three weeks, and also caused a further delay 
of around seven weeks by failing to pay the GP invoice promptly. There was also a later 
delay with L&G reviewing information received from Mrs Bs GP.
L&G paid Mrs B £430 compensation, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances and 
reflected the inconvenience she experienced by the delays it caused. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited has already paid £430 to settle the complaint in respect of the delays, and I think that 
was fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman