DRN-3416362
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bought By Many Ltd (BBM) increased the cost of his pet insurance 
policy after he corrected a mistake in the age of his pet.
What happened
Mr C wanted to add a new puppy to his existing pet insurance policy. He entered his pets 
name, age and breed and received a quote for the new terms. But when he received the 
policy documents he discovered the pets age was wrong. It said six months on the 
document rather than the puppys correct age. 
When Mr C spoke to BBM he was told it was a computer error. But correcting it, using the 
full date of birth, altered the policy price. And the next set of documents incorrectly showed 
the age at seven months. Mr C said hes now being charged nearly £10 a month more than 
the previous quote. And hes unhappy with the increase as he put the correct details into his 
application. 
BBM accepted there was an issue with the way age information was displayed in the policy 
documents. It was working on resolving the problem. But it didnt have any impact on the 
way the premium was calculated. That was based on the information provided by the 
applicant.
The application process asked for the pets age in months and years. And its system 
defaulted to the first of the month for the date of birth. The screenshot from Mr Cs 
application showed hed entered his pet as four months old. When Mr C had asked for the 
date of birth to be corrected to the 27th of the month it altered the age of his pet from four to 
three months. BBM said age was a factor in calculating the policy premium. And the cost 
had increased slightly to reflect the change. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with BBMs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator felt it wasnt unreasonable that the premium would 
change as the pets age had a bearing on the policy pricing. And it wouldnt be fair to amend 
the policy to the figure originally quoted because of the wrong age. So he didnt think BBM 
had treated Mr C unfairly. And he wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
The policy didnt show the correct age for his puppy. So Mr C didnt believe he was paying 
the correct amount. He doesnt feel he can trust the premium quoted by BBM if he cant trust 
the paperwork it issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. And I want to assure him that Ive looked at everything 
thats happened very carefully. 
Ive checked all of the available evidence to see if BBM has done anything wrong. But based 
on what Ive seen I agree with our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr C added his puppy to an existing policy on 27 October 2021. As the pets date of birth 
was 26 July 2021 that meant his pet wouldve been three months and one day old. I 
understand BBM doesnt ask for an actual date of birth. It only asks for the age of the pet in 
months and years. I know Mr C is sure he entered three months but BBM has provided a 
screenshot that shows four months was entered as the age. The premium was calculated on 
that basis.
BBM has also explained that once the age in months had been entered the system would 
enter a default date of birth as the first of the month. And thats what was listed on the policy 
documentation. Mr C noticed the discrepancy and contacted BBM on 1 November. He asked 
them to put in the correct date of birth and BBM has provided a screenshot of its system 
which confirms it now has the correct date of birth as 26 July 2021. 
There are two main issues thatve arisen from this correction. The first relates to the 
documentation Mr C received. I understand there are issues with BBMs system when very 
young pets are added to existing policies. If the pet hadnt been born when the original policy 
was issued it can cause problems with the age displayed on the new documentation. 
BBM has acknowledged the issue and says it is working to fix the problem. And thats not 
something our service can interfere with. But it would explain why the policy documentation 
incorrectly showed Mr Cs pet as six months old and then seven months old when it was 
reissued. 
As Mr C has acknowledged, the profile on his online account does correctly show the pets 
age. And BBM has provided evidence to confirm that the date of birth for Mr Cs pet is now 
showing correctly on its system. 
Ive seen the policy documentation issued in December 2021 which shows the puppy to now 
be four months old. And BBM has assured Mr C that any future policy documentation 
generated at each renewal date would show the correct age. 
As BBM can only reproduce copies of the previous documentation rather than regenerate it, 
Im satisfied BBM has done all it can to reassure Mr C that it has the correct date of birth on 
its records. 
The second issue is whether Mr C has been charged the correct premium for his policy. 
Mr C was initially given a quotation of £122 per month. But after the pets age was corrected 
from four months to three months BBM increased the quotation to £129.72 per month. 
I can understand Mr Cs upset that the price increased from the amount hed originally been 
quoted. But the original quote had been calculated on the basis that the pet was four months 
old at the time. Insurers will ask themselves what the likelihood of a policyholder making a 
claim is and how much that claim is likely to cost. The insurer will consider a number of 
factors and, for pet insurance policies, the age of the pet will be a consideration. 
When Mr C asked BBM to correct his pets date of birth, this caused BBM to re-evaluate the 
risk based on the slightly adjusted new age for his puppy. If Mr C had carried out two 
separate applications at the same time - but entered different ages for the pet on each 
application - I would expect the premium to differ slightly. And thats whats happened here. 
So I cant say BBM has acted unfairly or unreasonably in recalculating the premium based 
on the new information itd received from Mr C.I realise Mr C feels very strongly about this matter. And I understand his frustration that the 
documentation cant be reissued with the correct original information. BBM has apologised 
for the issue with the age shown in the policy documents. Its working to correct the problem 
caused when very young pets are added to existing policies. And its provided screenshots 
to our service to confirm it has the correct date of birth for the puppy and it recalculated the 
premium based on the correct date and age.
The evidence Ive seen confirms the alteration in the premium was correctly applied after the 
pets age was updated on BBMs systems. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr C was 
treated any differently to how any other customer wouldve been treated in the same 
circumstances. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen, BBM has 
acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy when it 
increased the premium following the correction to the pets age. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman