DRN-3593155
The complaint
Mr As complaint against St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc is about the advice he 
was given to transfer his pension. He says the new pension has underperformed, there were 
high fees, including an early withdrawal charge that werent properly explained, and St. 
James's Place failed to review or manage it.
Mr A also complains that he wasnt told that he was receiving restricted advice. And that St. 
Jamess Place failed to follow his instructions to ensure all his investments had ISA 
protection.
What happened
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In brief, although she didnt 
think that the advice given to Mr A to transfer his pension was suitable or in his best 
interests, she thought that the offer that St. James's Place had made to settle the matter was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator noted that the new pension had higher overall charges than the original 
pension plan. There was also a 6% early withdrawal charge whereas the original plan didnt 
have this charge. And the existing pension had a large range of different funds available  
the new pension had fewer funds to choose from.
The investigator said shed carefully considered the reasons why St. Jamess Place had 
recommended a transfer which included consolidating Mr As pensions and reducing 
inheritance tax liability. However Mr A hadnt consolidated his pensions. And the investigator 
said that Mr A could have switched funds with his existing scheme and this would have met 
his needs. The investigator didnt think the reasons given for the transfer justified incurring 
the higher charges associated with it.
Overall, the investigator didnt think St. Jamess Place should have recommended that Mr A 
transfer his pension as it wasnt in his best interests. She said that ordinarily she would go 
onto decide what St. Jamess Place should do to remedy the situation. However although St. 
Jamess Place didnt think it had done anything wrong, it had already made an offer to settle 
the matter. It said it would compare the actual value of Mr As pension against an 
appropriate benchmark. The investigator said that as Mr A had subsequently transferred his 
pension again to another provider, it was difficult to say how he would have invested but for 
the unsuitable advice. She thought using a benchmark was reasonable in the circumstances, 
and in line with what she would otherwise have recommended.
The investigator said St. Jamess Place had also offered to waive any early withdrawal 
charges, and cover up to £2,000 of advice fees for Mr A to take independent financial 
advice. St. Jamess Place had also offered to pay Mr A £750 for any trouble and upset that 
had been caused. The investigator went onto consider the other parts of Mr As complaint.
ISA Protection
The investigator noted that in 2016 St. Jamess Place had recommended that Mr A invest 
just over £16,000 into an ISA and then put just under £19,000 into a feeder account in order 
to utilise the ISA allowance going forward. She then looked at what had happened in the 
following years. She noted that Mr A had funded the ISA to the maximum allowance in 
2016/17 and 2017/18. The funds in the feeder account had been used in 2018/19, albeit the 
maximum allowance hadnt been used. In 2019/20 nothing had been invested in an ISA. The 
investigator noted that Mr A had been given documentation which explained how the feeder 
account worked. And hed been sent information about the amounts hed paid into an ISA 
each year. The investigator thought that St. Jamess Place had invested the funds from the 
feeder account appropriately and had reasonably alerted Mr A when he hadnt used his full 
ISA allowance. She didnt think St. Jamess Place had acted unfairly and she thought that Mr 
A could have invested more if he had wished to do so.
Restricted advice
The investigator noted that the Key Facts document that had been given to Mr A had a 
section headed Which service will we provide you with?
It had three sections: Independent Advice, Restricted Advice and No Advice. A tick was 
placed in the box next to Restricted Advice. This said:
Restricted Advice  We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have 
assessed your needs. We only offer products from a limited number of companies. You may 
ask us for a list of the companies whose products we offer.
The investigator noted that it had also given an explanation of what Independent Advice 
was. The investigator thought that St. Jamess Places documentation had made it clear that 
it was providing restricted advice, that this meant it only offered products from a limited 
number of companies and how this differed from Independent Advice.
Fees
The investigator considered the various documentation that had been given to Mr A about 
fees. She thought that the fees/charges had been explained. She referred for example to the 
illustration for the ISA that had been sent to Mr A on 31 May 2016 which had set out the 
charges and how they impacted on the rates of growth. She said the recommendation letter 
dated 10 November 2017 also said that St. Jamess Place had provided Mr A with other 
documents including the Services Costs and Disclosure Document during its discussions 
with Mr A. The investigator thought that the costs of the advice had been made clear and 
these had been explained in both monetary and percentage terms.
So in summary, the investigator didnt think the advice to transfer the pension was suitable 
or in Mr As best interests. But she thought the offer that St. Jamess Place had made was 
fair for the part of Mr As complaint about the pension advice. She didnt recommend that the 
parts of the complaint about the fees, ISA allowance or restricted advice should be upheld.
Mr As representative said that Mr A would accept the offer made in relation to the pension 
transfer. However he didnt agree with the investigators findings in relation to the other 
issues hed raised. 
The representative said, in summary, that there was an overarching agreement that all the 
investments would be held in the most tax efficient way, and if they werent it should have 
been mentioned when reviewed. 
In terms of the restricted advice, the representative said it wasnt verbally explained, and the 
written explanation fell short of clarity and completeness. The representative said a beginner investor shouldnt be expected to understand the implication of the firm only offering 
products from a limited number of companies. Mr A had understood this meant it was a list 
of companies that had been vetted and hand-picked for Mr As needs. Mr A thought the 
wording of the document was designed to be opaque and ambiguous and could easily have 
been made clearer. 
The representative said the fees were something else that should have been explained 
verbally but werent. She said COBS 6.1A.17 required the firm to make their charges clear 
before giving advice. She said if Mr A was to rely on the written explanation of restricted 
advice then the document should also predate the meeting in which the advice was given 
(as per COBS 6.2B.33). She said if Mr A had received all this information in a clear and 
concise form before hed met for the investment advice, he would have had an opportunity to 
understand the fees and type of advice. And all before agreeing to a meeting and being 
persuaded that actively managed funds were better for him than trackers.
The representative said the Key Facts About our Services and Costs document said the 
cost of the initial advice and services would be 4.5%. However the investment certificate said 
the initial charges were 5%. The representative went on to set out a number of reasons why 
Mr A didnt think the firm had followed the clients best interest rules as set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The investigator responded to say that she thought St. Jamess Place had advised Mr A on 
how he could invest in the most tax efficient way. She thought it was then Mr As 
responsibility to make investments he wished to make into the feeder account by the 15th 
working day in April each year as had been outlined to him. 
The investigator said she thought the fact the advice was restricted had been explained in 
enough detail.  She thought it had made clear that Mr A wouldnt be receiving independent 
advice. And she noted that Mr A had received advice and information about charges at 
different stages. But that he then went on to proceed with St. Jamess Places 
recommendations. So she didnt think the evidence suggested that Mr A would likely have 
acted differently if hed been given the relevant documentation earlier. 
The investigator said on reviewing the documentation she thought Mr A had been informed 
about the fees being charged on several different occasions; the illustrations, Key Facts 
about our Services and Costs document and in the recommendation letter. 
As a settlement between the parties couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and largely 
for the same reasons.
Mr A, through his representative, has queried the reason for the difference in the 4.5% initial 
advice and services charge outlined in the Key Facts About our Services and Costs 
document, with the 5% initial charge quoted on the investment certificate.
The firm has said the difference is explained by the 0.5% product charge. It said the overall 
initial charge was 5%, made up of the 4.5% initial advice and services charge plus the 0.5% 
product charge. Looking at the Key Facts About our Services and Costs document, Section 2 states: 
Neither our advice nor our products are free. You will have to pay us charges for both. The 
details of these charges will be discussed with you and set out in detail on the personalised 
illustration we will give to you.
This Key Facts document explains about the advice charges and then says the information 
about the product charges was contained in another document, and referred to different 
documents. The recommendation letter sent to Mr A about his ISA said a Key Investor 
Information document was enclosed. So that is the relevant document here. Looking at this 
document, it sets out One-off charges taken before or after you invest. It then sets out the 
maximum charge on entry but says in some cases it can be less.
We asked the firm if Mr A had been given a document confirming exactly what product 
charge he would be paying. The firm confirmed he hadnt. 
In my view I dont think the difference between the initial charge (5%) and the initial advice 
and services charge (4.5%) was particularly clear. The firm did say there would be charges 
for the advice and for the product. And that the charges for the product would be set out in 
another document  the Key Investor Information document. But then that document referred 
to charges generally and wasnt specific to Mr A. I think the similar terminology used - initial 
charge and the initial advice and services charge - along with the charges being set out in 
different documents all meant it needed a very careful reading to appreciate all the details of 
the initial charge. So on the one hand I understand the confusion, and why Mr A has queried 
the matter.
However on the other, for the reasons set out by the investigator, I think Mr A was 
reasonably alerted that there would be a 5% initial charge.  Although he may not have been 
told or appreciated the exact makeup of that charge, I think he ought reasonably to have 
been aware that it was 5% and he effectively agreed to that charge. I think this is what would 
likely have been key in Mr As decision making. I dont think Mr A would have made a 
different decision about how he invested if he'd been told how the initial charge of 5% was 
specifically made up. 
Mr As representative has said if Mr A had received all the relevant information in a clear and 
concise form before hed met for the investment advice, he would have had an opportunity to 
understand the fees and type of advice. And all before agreeing to a meeting and being 
persuaded that actively managed funds were better for him than trackers.
My understanding is that Mr A had been considering investing in trackers prior to investing 
with St. James Place. I understand Mr A will be feeling particularly disappointed if he was 
thinking of investing in a certain way, he followed professional advice to invest differently and 
then subsequently found that he would have been better off investing as hed initially 
intended. 
However there are no guarantees when investing in risk-based assets such as equities. 
Different professionals can have different reasonable opinions about how particular 
funds/shares/assets will perform, and so where money should be invested. There is debate 
within the industry about the benefits of trackers versus actively managed funds. However I 
dont think there is a universal consensus on the issue  some might arguably be more 
appropriate in certain circumstances. As I say, I appreciate Mr A will be feeling particularly 
frustrated if hed been better off by following his original plans. But that is only known with 
the benefit of hindsight, and I dont think actively managed funds were unsuitable in the 
circumstances. My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc had offered to calculate and pay compensation 
to Mr A in line with the methodology subsequently outlined in the investigators assessment 
dated 18 March 2022, and taking into account that Mr A subsequently transferred his 
pension to another provider.
In summary, it agreed to compare the value of the pension actually transferred (which takes 
into account the Early Withdrawal Charge) with what the pension would have been worth 
had it grown in line with the benchmark recommended by the investigator in her assessment.  
And then make an appropriate adjustment to that figure to bring it up to date. 
It also agreed to pay Mr A £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused. And a maximum 
of £2,000 towards fees for Mr A to take independent financial advice.
My final decision is that the offer made by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should 
calculate and pay compensation to Mr A in line with that offer. 
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to the compensation from the 
date of this decision to date of settlement if settlement isnt made within 28 days of St. 
James's Place Wealth Management Plc being notified of Mr As acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman