DRN-2523477
The complaint
Ms L complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) have said her whole of life 
policy has no value because it was surrendered in 1991.
What happened
When Ms L was born in 1945, her mother took out a whole of life assurance policy to cover 
Ms Ls funeral expenses with Pearl Assurance Company Limited (Pearl). Phoenix later took 
on responsibility for Pearls policies and so for ease, in this decision I will refer to Phoenix. 
Ms L says that in 2017 she was reviewing her cover and wrote to Phoenix to understand the 
value of a number of policies shed had for both her and her late husband. 
Phoenix responded to Ms L and told her this policy could not be located in the list of policies 
that still had value. It advised that once policies have been paid, it will only keep records for 
a further seven years, it said this policy could fall into this category.
In 2019 Ms L wrote to Phoenix again and asked it for information about various policies 
shed taken out, including this one. Phoenix again advised this policy didnt have any value.
 
Ms L didnt think this was right as her policy schedule showed it paid out on death. So, she 
contacted our service. We passed Ms Ls concerns to Phoenix who looked into the 
complaint.
 
Phoenix responded to Ms L and advised it had checked an archive database and it showed 
the policy had been paid out as Premium Ceased Maturity (PCM) on 25 September 1991. 
The value paid showed as £47.10. It said this was part of a scheme introduced in 1980 
called Premium Ceased Special Surrender, also known as PC Maturity. The scheme allowed 
insurers to pay out before the death of the life assured. Phoenix said it had no further 
information on this policy because of the time that had passed.
Ms L remained unhappy so asked our service to look into her complaint. Phoenix agreed 
that we could do so. Ms L told us she remembered receiving a letter from Phoenix years ago 
saying she didnt need to pay any more premiums. She said it would have made no sense 
for her to have surrendered the policy for such a small amount of money, as the policy was 
specifically designed to cover her funeral expenses.
Phoenix told us that customers had to complete a form to confirm if they wanted to surrender 
the policy but due to the time elapsed, its records had since been destroyed.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. On balance, they 
thought it was likely the policy was surrendered in 1991. Ms L didnt agree and so the 
matters been passed to me for a decision. 
Ms L raised further concerns, noting there were errors on the archive database  her name 
was misspelled, and she believed the date of the policy was incorrect. Ms L questioned 
whether her policy had been ended without her knowledge when Pearl was sold in 1990 in 
an effort to reduce the businesss liability. Ms L asked that her policy be honoured to the 
value of £3,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ms L maintains that she didnt surrender her policy, but Phoenix believe that it was 
surrendered. Given the passage of time, there are limited records still in existence. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide whats most likely to have 
happened. Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms L, having looked at 
the evidence available, I think its more likely than not that the policy was surrendered  
Ill explain why. 
The record from the archive system available to Phoenix show the policy as surrendered. 
Im aware that this data was entered onto the archive system retrospectively and so it isnt a 
contemporaneous record. But the evidence Ive seen suggests all of the businesss PC 
databases were combined into the one archive record in 1997  so its more 
contemporaneous than the other evidence available to me.
Ms L doubts the accuracy of this record and is particularly concerned by the misspelling of 
her name and what she believes is an inaccurate policy date. But having reviewed the 
original policy document and the archive record, I dont think the policy date is incorrect  
theres an erroneous comma, but in my view the date is accurate. I do, however, agree that 
Ms Ls name is misspelled. Ms L is understandably concerned by this. She feels that if there 
are errors here, there may be other errors in the record. But Im not persuaded that slight 
misspellings in Ms Ls name, or an erroneous comma, mean its likely the entire entry about 
the status of the policy is wrong. I think the latter is less likely to occur.
Ive thought carefully about the fact Ms L said she wouldnt have surrendered her policy for 
such a low amount as it was taken out with the aim of covering funeral expenses. And I think 
the purpose of the policy is important when thinking about what is likely to have happened 
here. But at the same time, Phoenix have provided evidence to show that even if the policy 
matured now, it would still only have been worth £141.70. So, this plan wouldnt have grown 
significantly had it not been surrendered. And it wasnt ever going to be able to cover these 
costs. Given this, Im not persuaded that funeral costs would have been a reason to retain 
the policy when surrender was offered some thirty years ago.
 
As an aside - Im aware Ms L has raised some concerns about the value of her plan, given a 
similar plan that her husband had held was worth a lot more. But Im satisfied the valuation 
does not seem unreasonable given the premiums paid. 
Ive also seen no evidence to support Ms Ls suggestion her policy was surrendered without 
her knowledge to reduce the businesss liability. Overall, whilst I appreciate this will come as 
a disappointment to Ms L, I do think the policy was surrendered in 1991 and I dont think 
Phoenix have done anything wrong here. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman