DRN-4236569
The complaint
Miss J complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2022 Miss J was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Startline.
In September 2022 Miss J experienced some issues with the car cutting out. She reported 
the issues to the supplying dealer. Attempts to repair the car were made but Miss J 
continued to experience the issues.
Miss J raised a complaint with Startline and asked to reject the car. In its final response, 
Startline said that Miss J should contact her warranty company so that repairs could be 
carried out.
Repairs were completed in February 2023 and the warranty company covered the cost of 
repairs.
Miss J remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She wants Startline to 
compensate her for the inconvenient she suffered when the car wasnt in a driveable 
condition. She says that Startline told her that once the issues with the car were resolved it 
would look into refunding her some of her monthly payments.
During the investigation by this service, Startline made an offer of £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Miss J declined the offer because she said shed been told by Startline that it would 
compensate her for the issues shed experienced with the car and for the number of visits 
shed had to make to the garage. Miss J said she would accept £1000 for the inconvenience 
shed been caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the issues with the car appeared to 
be due to wear and tear and that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
The investigator said he appreciated that Miss J hadnt had proper use of the car since 
September 2022 but said he couldnt ask Startline to compensate her for the inconvenient 
arising as a result of not being able to use the car because the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
Miss J didnt agree. She said she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied because shed experienced the issues within a couple of  months of purchasing the 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Miss J  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which 
was present at the point of supply as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear 
and tear.
Ive reviewed the available evidece e about the issues which occurred with the car. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault. I say this because the invoices show that 
there were issues with the brakes, the diesel particulate filter (DPF), the AdBlue injector and 
the catalytic converter.
Just because a car has a fault doesnt mean that it isnt of satisfactory quality. Ive reviewed 
the available evidence to determine whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss J.
At the point of supply in July 2022 the car was around 3  years old and had covered 
around 33,000 miles. The first issue with the car related to the brakes. I can see from the 
invoices that the brake discs were replaced in September 2022. At this point the car had 
covered 37,900 miles.
The issue with the AdBlue light and the DPF occurred next. The DPF was regenerated in 
November 2022. At this point the car had covered 41,239 miles.
The AdBlue light came back on after this and a further regeneration took place in December 
2022. The recorded mileage at this point was 42,188.
The Nox system was reset in January 2023. At this point the recorded mileage was 44,310.
Looking at the various issues which occurred and the mileage which Miss J had covered, I 
can see that Miss J had managed to cover almost 5000 miles in the car before the first issue 
occurred in September 2022. Miss J had managed to cover around 8,269 miles by the time 
the AdBlue and DPF issues occurred. 
If the faults had been present or developing at the point of supply, I wouldve expected Miss 
J to have experienced them much sooner, and not to have been able to cover the mileage 
that she did. Because of this, I think its more likely that the issues with the car were due to 
general wear and tear and that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I appreciate that Miss J has been caused some inconvenience because she wasnt able to 
use the car for periods of time. That said,  I can see that from September 2022 to January 
2023 Miss J managed to cover around 6000 miles, which I would consider to be average 
mileage. 
Miss J has said that Startline told her during a telephone conversation that it would look into 
refunding some of her monthly payments. Startline has told this service that Miss J did 
request compensation but it hasnt been able to locate any call recordings in which it agreed 
to refund any of Miss Js monthly payments. Ive thought about this but in the absence of any 
evidence that Startline agreed to refund Miss Js monthly payments, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask it to do so. Further, I dont think there is any basis for asking Startline to refund any monthly payments because I havent found that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
Startline has acknowledged that it failed to respond to Miss Js compensation request and 
has offered a compensation payment of £100 to reflect the poor service. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable offer in respect of the service failure.
I understand that Mis J feels frustrated by the issues which occurred with the car. However, 
having considered everything, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Because of this, I wont be asking 
Startline to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman