DRN-3216632
The complaint
Ms T and Mr T complaint that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sold them term 
assurance polices that they did not need.
What happened
Ms T and Mr T were sold term assurance polices in 2011. They didnt feel the cover was 
needed as they had life cover and employee benefits in place. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He felt that the 
policies were suitable. Ms T and Mr T didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax had a duty to ensure that any policy recommendation it made was suitable for Ms T 
and Mr T given their needs and circumstances.
Ive carefully considered the documentation from the time of the sale. I note that the adviser 
conducted a comprehensive financial review and took into account the cover that Ms and Mr 
T had at the time. As they had a mortgage of £113,000 and only £23,650 of life cover, she 
recommended decreasing term policies for to meet the mortgage shortfall for the remaining 
term of the mortgage. This meant the mortgage was protected in the event of death. She 
also recommended critical illness policies with life cover for less amounts so that there was 
some cover in the event of a critical illness. The recommendations were clearly set out in the 
quote summary. 
Additionally the adviser took into account that Mr T had employee benefits and in the event 
of his death his estate would have received two times his salary. But this benefit would only 
have been available for the duration of the time he remained that that particular employment. 
The adviser made a recommendation that matched the term and mortgage amount so that in 
the event of death or critical illness the mortgage would be repaid. This accorded with Mr Ts 
stated objective to prioritize life cover for the mortgage and I find that the recommendation 
was suitable.
I note that Mr T signed a declaration confirming that the information he had given was an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances and that he understood the risks and 
characteristics of the products being proposed. Nevertheless if on reflection Ms T or Mr T 
decided that they didnt want the cover the cancellation rights were clearly set out in the 
covering letter sent to them in March 2011 -Your Right to Change Your Mind.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied that recommendation made was suitable and in 
accordance with the objectives the adviser had recorded in the fact find. I recognise that Ms 
T and Mr T will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given I dont find that the 
policies were mis-sold to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman