DRN-3444715
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc was mis-sold to him.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr G saw an advertisement for a used car. The supplying dealer stated that 
its policy was to provide cars with at least six-months of a valid MOT and if there was less 
than six months left, then a new 12-month MOT would be provided. Mr G also says the car 
was advertised with other features such as electric wing mirrors and cruise control.
Mr G agreed to purchase the car and a conditional sale agreement for 48-months was 
arranged with Santander. The car was delivered to Mr G. Mr G says that at that time the car 
was under private plates and there was a delay before the V5 arrived showing the cars 
registration number.
Mr G says that when the car arrived it didnt match the spec as advertised, there were no 
electric wing mirrors or no cruise control. He says this was raised with the supplying dealer 
who made a payment of £150 in February 2019 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G says that the car was used by his son. In November 2019 Mr Gs son was stopped by 
the police. Mr G says the police informed his son that there was no valid MOT on the car 
which could impact on the validity of the cars insurance. His son was also issued with a 
fixed penalty notice that carried an endorsement due to the tint in the windows being too 
dark. Mr G says the police told his son that a charge of dangerous driving could be 
considered in the future due to the condition of the windows.
Mr G was very upset to discover that there was no valid MOT and on investigating the matter 
discovered the MOT had actually expired around two weeks after he had acquired the car 
and that the dealer hadnt supplied it with a new MOT as per its policy. Mr G says the lack of 
MOT invalidated both his insurance and the warranty that had come with the car. He 
arranged for an MOT to be undertaken.
Mr G says due to concern about the car and what might happen to his son if he continued to 
use it in its current state led him to decide to voluntary terminate the agreement. He says he 
had no choice but to do so.
Mr G complained to Santander about the mis-selling of the car with an MOT that was only 
valid for a few days as opposed to what hed expected. He said he thought the car had come 
with a valid 12-month MOT.
Santander upheld his complaint about the MOT. It said the dealer accepted they had 
overlooked renewing it and had offered to cover the cost of a new MOT, but as Mr G had 
now returned the car it recommended Mr G contact the dealer for it to reimburse the cost of 
the MOT he had paid for.
Mr G was unhappy at Santanders response and complained to this service. Mr G 
complained that the car had been mis-sold to him due to the lack of a valid MOT of at least 6 
months and that the tints on the windows were too dark and so illegal. Mr G says he had no 
choice but to voluntary terminate the agreement as he was afraid his son would be banned 
from driving if he continued to use it.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He said that although 
the dealer had accepted that it had overlooked the MOT when supplying the car to Mr G, he 
didnt think this meant the car had been misrepresented. This was because Mr G wasnt 
induced to acquire the car based on a valid MOT being provided, our investigator said he 
thought Mr G would have purchased the car if hed known that there was only a short time 
left on the MOT. 
The supplying dealer had denied that the car had been supplied to Mr G with additional tints 
to the windows. Our investigator said he wasnt persuaded that the tints had been added 
before Mr G had acquired the car. The dealer had also said that Mr G had raised the lack of 
MOT in February 2019 and had received £150 compensation for that. Our investigator said 
that it was possible Mr G had been aware of the lack of MOT earlier than November 2019.
Mr G disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that the £150 compensation had 
been paid for the car not having the electric wing mirrors and cruise control but not for the 
lack of MOT. He says he wasnt aware of the expired MOT or that the tint on the windows 
was illegal until his son was stopped by the police. 
Mr G says that the lack of MOT meant the value of the car had depreciated because there 
was now a missing record and he had paid for insurance which for 10 months had been 
invalid.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complain was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I have to decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened.
It isnt disputed that the supplying dealer overlooked renewing the MOT at the time the car 
was supplied to Mr G. It also appears that its accepted that the car should have been 
supplied with a valid MOT of either at least six months or a new one.
Santander has raised that MOT records are publicly available and so Mr G could have 
checked the MOT on the car when hed acquired it. Mr G says that when the car was 
provided, the MOT only had 11 days left before it expired and as the car was supplied on 
private plates he had to wait for the V5 to arrive to learn the registration number for the car. 
He says this document didnt arrive until after the MOT had expired.
I dont know what was said to Mr G about the MOT by the supplying dealer. Mr G has said 
he thought the car had a 12-month MOT when he acquired it but also says he was relying on 
the advertised policy operated by the dealer. This policy said that all cars were supplied with 
an MOT of not less than six months and, when this wasnt possible, the MOT would be 
renewed. However, as I havent seen that the MOT was actually discussed between Mr G 
and the dealership, I dont know why Mr G thought it was a new 12-month MOT in place rather than one which was at least six months in length. Since I think its likely the actual 
length of the MOT was unclear, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr G to have 
checked the MOT position once he was able to do so having received the V5. And, if he had 
done so, this would have mitigated the length of time the car didnt have a valid MOT in 
place. 
However, I accept that even if Mr G had checked the MOT position earlier, he would have 
still been provided with a car that didnt have an MOT when it had been advertised as having 
one. There would also have been a period of time when the car had no valid MOT. 
The dealer has raised that Mr G received £150 compensation for the lack of MOT in 
February 2019, however Mr G disputes that and says this payment was for a different 
reason. As I havent seen any correspondence such as emails between the parties nor any 
notes that were made by the dealership that had been made at the time the offer of the £150 
was made, I think its likely the dealership has been mistaken about why this payment was 
made. Im satisfied Mr G wasnt aware about the MOT not being valid until the police 
stopped his son around 10 months later.
For me to be satisfied that the car was misrepresented to Mr G due to the lack of the MOT 
then I would need to be satisfied that the supplying dealer had made an untrue statement of 
fact and that this had induced Mr G into entering the contract. Here although Mr G was 
under the impression the car came with a valid MOT, I dont think this was the reason he 
went ahead with the acquiring the car. I think its more likely than not that if he had been 
aware the car needed an MOT then he would have still gone ahead. So, I dont think the test 
for misrepresentation has been met.
Mr G has also raised the tinted windows which he says were illegal. Ive seen that Mr Gs 
son was issued with a fixed penalty notice (FPN) due to a modification with the car when 
he was stopped by the police in November 2019. And although the FPN doesnt specify it 
was for the windows I accept this was the reason it was issued.
However, Ive seen that Mr G hasnt raised any complaint about the tinted windows with 
either Santander or the dealer. This does surprise me as Mr G says his son was told by the 
police that if he continued to drive the car in that condition, he could end up disqualified from 
driving. And Mr G says this was the reason he decided to terminate the conditional sale 
agreement. I think its more likely than not if the car had been supplied to Mr G with 
additional tints to the windows that he would have immediately raised a complaint about 
those windows following the FPN being issued and the comments from the police. I think the 
police had been clear the windows were unacceptable and illegal when speaking with Mr Gs 
son and issuing the FPN.
Ive seen the supplying dealer states that no modification was carried out to the car. Mr G 
suggests the condition of the windows could be the reason the dealer didnt renew the MOT 
in January 2019. But I dont have any evidence that the dealer was aware that the cars 
windows had been modified and I dont think I can reasonably rule out that they were 
modified after Mr G had acquired the car. I dont have enough evidence to reasonably say 
the car was misrepresented to Mr G in respect of the illegally tinted windows.
So, as I have set out above, I dont think the car was misrepresented to Mr G, but I do think 
there was a breach of contract in regard to the MOT. In light of that I must now consider 
what would be fair redress in these circumstances.
Mr G says the invalid MOT rendered both his insurance and the warranty invalid and that the 
car has depreciated in value due to the missing MOT. He also says that it led to his son 
being stopped by the police.While I accept Mr Gs insurance could have been rendered invalid, fortunately there was no 
claim and so I dont know what action the insurance company would have taken. I appreciate 
learning you may not have cover when driving would be concerning but there hasnt been 
any actual financial detriment caused to Mr G. I also think, as set out above, that it would 
have been reasonable for Mr G to have checked the MOT position which would have 
reduced the length of time the car was without a valid one in place.
In regard to any deprecation in value of the car, I dont have any evidence as to that and I 
note Mr G chose to voluntarily terminate the agreement. I havent seen any evidence he 
discussed other alternative options with Santander. I dont think I can reasonably say on the 
evidence I have, that the missing valid MOT caused Mr G any financial detriment and 
caused him to have no option but to terminate the agreement. 
I appreciate Mr Gs son being stopped by the police would have been distressing but it is 
possible the car was stopped over the windows rather than the lack of MOT. Also, Mr Gs 
son, not being a party to the agreement isnt someone I can consider in respect of any 
compensation from Santander.
Ive seen that the supplying dealer had originally offered to cover the cost of the cars next 
MOT, but Mr G no longer has the car. The supplying dealer therefore then offered to cover 
the cost of the MOT undertaken by Mr G. And I agree with Santander that this was a fair 
resolution and so I think Santander handled Mr Gs fairly by upholding his claim and 
confirming the cost of the MOT would be covered. And Im not asking it to do more.
For the reasons set out Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman