DRN-3625034
The complaint
Miss S complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)s handling of her Home 
Emergency policy claim.
All references to IPA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss S has strong views about what has happened, and I want to assure her 
that Ive read and considered everything shes said carefully. My findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
I dont mean this as a discourtesy, but the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss S, and by IPA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Home Emergency policies are typically designed to address immediate problems  
not to serve as long term fixes or maintenance to a wider issue. I can see the policy 
says IPA will carry out necessary repairs as a result of the home emergency, avoid 
more damage and make the home fit to live in before it leaves.
IPA has provided information including job cards and photos, of before and after 
work, that show on each occasion the leaks were stopped, preventing further 
damage. 
A lot of the issues reported relate to the toilet and appear to have presented 
themselves when it was used. So, I can appreciate why Miss S feels the issues had 
not been rectified. But I can see from the job cards that each time IPA attended, a 
different fault was repaired.
Miss S feels IPAs actions have contributed to water leaking into a neighbours 
property and causing water damage, meaning she has had to make a claim on her 
home insurance policy. 
Escapes of water by nature generally cause further damage. IPA were required to 
deal with the immediate emergency and from looking at the information available Im 
satisfied it did that.  
I appreciate Miss S expressed concerns to IPA about the water leaking into a 
neighbouring property, but it would then be for her to consider whether she wanted to 
take matters further independently and have this investigated. 
So I think IPA have acted in line with the terms of the policy and Im not persuaded it 
has done anything that has contributed to the damage. And considering the 
information available, I think its likely Miss S would have needed to make a claim on 
her home insurance policy anyway.
I understand why Miss S feels strongly about her experience in dealing with IPA  
such as her interactions with some of its contractors. IPA have accepted the service 
it has provided at times was poor and offered Miss S £400 compensation. Having 
considered the circumstances of this complaint, I think this is reasonable as it reflects 
the inconvenience and distress IPAs actions have caused Miss S.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman