DRN-2861632
The complaint
Miss N is complaining that a car PSA Finance UK Limited supplied her on a conditional sale 
agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2017 Miss N entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a new car. The 
cash price of the car was around £23,000. Miss N says she contacted the supplying dealer  
who I shall refer to as P  to report an issue with the engine management light (EML) 
intermittently appearing. She says she continually tried to get P to inspect the car but she 
says P told her it thought this was likely to be a software issue and it didnt have the 
computer equipment to inspect this.
In January 2018 Miss N took the car to P for a service and P inspected the car then, but it 
said no fault was found. In February 2018 she took the car back, but P said the EML wasnt 
on. However it said a diagnosis revealed an intermittent fault on the crankshaft dephaser. P 
cleared the fault and said the car seemed ok after that. 
Miss N says the EML continued to come on intermittently. She also said a noise developed 
on the car and she says she sent P a video of the fault in October 2018. This was shown to 
be a fault with the clutch and the clutch was replaced under the cars warranty.
In December 2018 Miss N returned the car to P again as she said the EML continued to 
come on and off. She also said a noise was coming from the engine. Finally she said the 
radio and display kept rebooting.
In January 2019 Miss N took the car back to P again as she said the EML still continued to 
come on and off. P identified the faults were with the crankshaft dephasers again and it 
swapped them around. And it said this seemed to have resolved the issue.
In March 2019 Miss N said the car broke down while on the motorway. She said the engine 
failure warning light came on and told her to stop driving. She said the engine then cut out, 
but she was able to safely pull over. She contacted P who arranged for the car to be 
recovered and she was given a courtesy car.
Miss N says she told P she didnt want to keep the car and wanted to reject it. But P said she 
couldnt reject it as she had travelled around 45,000 miles in the car by then. It offered to 
arrange a favourable part-exchange, but Miss N maintained she should be allowed to reject 
it and didnt want the car back. P maintained she couldnt reject it and returned the car to 
Miss Ns address. 
Miss N complained to PSA that it provided a car that was of unsatisfactory quality and she 
says should be allowed to reject the car. PSA said P had told it that Miss N first reported the 
faults with the car in January 2018  more than six months after she first acquired it. So it 
said it was Miss Ns responsibility to demonstrate the faults were present at the point of 
supply. And it didnt think she had done so. It also said Miss N needed to provide evidence 
there were still faults with the car as it understood P had repaired it.
Miss N maintained she first reported the faults in October 2017 which was within six months 
of acquiring the car. And she said she continued to have issues with the car throughout the 
time she had it. She also said shes since had to acquire another car on finance, so she 
highlighted she was paying for two finance agreements which was putting her in financial 
difficulty. 
Our investigator asked Miss N to provide evidence that there were still faults with the car. 
Miss N was initially reluctant to do so as she maintained she should have been allowed to 
reject the car in March 2019. But she later provided an independent report which said: 
Called out to vehicle to report faults, after many of attempts to get the vehicle started once 
started fault was instantly noticeable with lack of power, engine management light on (fault 
code present- p0011  inlet camshaft timing solenoid 1, timing over advanced or system 
performance). 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2021 upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Miss N acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the conditional sale agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, PSA is responsible for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that theres been 
faults with the car, but the issue is whether they were present at the time of sale, and 
whether they made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, the car Miss N 
acquired was brand new and had a cash price of around £23,000.
PSA doesnt think the issues were present or developing at the point of supply and Ive taken 
this into account. But Ive also considered whether a reasonable person would expect there 
to be problems such as Miss N has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in 
short was it sufficiently durable.
PSA has set out that the burden is on Miss N to demonstrate that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. However Ive found Miss Ns testimony to be plausible and 
persuasive throughout. She has been consistent with what shes told us and has supported 
this with evidence. However, I have found Ps testimony to be inconsistent.
Im satisfied Miss N did contact P to report the initial fault with the EML in October 2017. But, 
even if this wasnt the case, and the fault didnt materialise until January 2018, its important 
to remember that this was a new car. So Miss N was entitled to expect the car to be fault 
free for a significant period of time. And I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
have an EML intermittently come on after seven months or within the first 15,000 miles of 
acquiring the car. So irrespective of whether the fault arose on October 2017 or January 
2018 I think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. But, for the 
avoidance of doubt, as I said above, Im satisfied Miss N first reported the fault to P in 
October 2017.
The issue for me to decide in this case is whether I think the initial fault is the same fault that 
ultimately caused the engine failure. Im particularly conscious Miss N has travelled around 
45,000 miles in the car.
As I said above, Ive found Miss Ns testimony consistent that the EML was intermittently 
coming on throughout the time she had the car. And I think whats particularly pertinent to note is that P first diagnosed the issue causing the EML to come on was with the camshaft 
dephaser. But it chose to reset the warning light rather than carry out any repair. A year later 
in January 2019 it identified the same issue, but this time chose to swap the dephasers 
around rather than carry out any material repair. Ultimately, a significant engine failure 
occurred a few months later.
It seems to me that the issue that caused the significant engine failure in March 2019 was 
most likely to be linked to the issues first highlighted in January 2018. And I suspect Ps 
failure to correctly rectify the initial faults has contributed to the ultimate engine failure. Its 
clear from what Miss N has said and her subsequent actions that she didnt want the car 
back after the engine failure. So Im satisfied she did express a desire to reject the car and 
didnt want the car repaired.
Under the CRA Miss N has the right to ask PSA to fix the car but if that repair is 
unsuccessful, she has the right to reject it. Its important to note that the CRA gives one right 
to repair the car, not a separate right to repair for each individual fault. I think Miss N has 
asked P to fix the faults on the car on numerous occasions before she ultimately asked to 
reject it. Im conscious she didnt contact PSA until after the car was repaired  instead she 
looked to resolve this through P. But I think, even if she had contacted PSA at the outset, it 
would have referred her back to P. So I dont think the situation would be any different. 
Ultimately, I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And, as I 
said above, I think the issues that caused the engine failure were linked to the initial issues 
Miss N had with the car. So I dont think the car had been satisfactorily repaired so I think it 
remained of unsatisfactory quality in March 2019. I think she should have been allowed to 
reject it when she asked to rather than being coerced into allowing the repair. And its clear 
Miss N still doesnt want to keep the car.
But, even if Im wrong in respect to the above, Miss N has provided a further independent 
report which sets out that there continue to be issues with the engine. So I dont think the car 
was satisfactorily repaired in March 2019. And, as I said, Im satisfied the issues that caused 
the engine failure are linked to the initial faults. So I think Miss N should be allowed to reject 
the car on the basis of these faults.
As I said, PSA should now allow Miss N to reject the car and it should arrange to collect it at 
no cost to her. And it should end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay. But Ive 
also thought about whether PSA should refund anything Miss N has paid towards the 
finance. Im conscious shes travelled around 45,000 miles in the car and has had it for 
around two years before the engine failed. Im not persuaded shes had any material drop on 
the usage of the car up to when the engine failed in March 2019. So I dont think PSA needs 
to refund anything shes paid up to when she should have been allowed to reject the car in 
March 2019. But Im satisfied she hasnt used the car since then. And she wouldnt have had 
to make her monthly payments had she been allowed to reject the car in March 2019, as she 
should have been allowed to do. So I think PSA should refund any payments shes made 
since March 2019.
Im conscious Miss N made an advanced payment of £8,644 when she entered into the 
conditional sale agreement. But given the amount Miss N has used the car, I dont think it 
would be fair to require PSA to refund the full advanced payment. But shes not had the full 
use of the contract. So I think PSA should refund 50% of this. 
Im also conscious Miss N has had to pay tax and insurance on two cars. And she wouldnt 
have had to do so had she been allowed to reject the car. So I think PSA should refund 
anything Miss N has paid for taxing and insuring the car since March 2019. Miss N has also paid £40 to get an independent inspection carried out on her car. And I think 
PSA should refund this too. 
Finally, its clear this matter has caused Miss N a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience. It seems shes had a lot of trouble in trying to resolve this matter. And it 
sounds like the instance when the cars engine failed would have been very distressing for 
Miss N. Further to this, shes had to pay for two cars for the last two years which I 
understand has put Miss N into financial difficulties. The investigator recommended £650 in 
compensation to reflect this distress and inconvenience. And I think thats fair.
Miss N didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a detailed response about why 
didnt think the level of compensation I awarded was sufficient. In summary she raised the 
following points:
She said there were clearly issues with the car when it was first supplied to her and she 
thinks its unfair she has to pay the monthly payments up to March 2019. She said she 
was forced to drive a car she felt unsafe in the vehicle and thats had a severe detriment 
on her health. 
She says was prevented from getting the mandatory 1,000 miles or one month service 
because the dealership didnt have the required software.
She said the protracted length of time it took PSA to resolve this matter has also had a 
severe detrimental impact on her mental health.
She thinks PSA treated her very unfairly in not freezing her payments while this service 
was investigating the complaint. She said this has put her in severe financial difficulties 
as she struggled to keep up with her essential bills  such as her mortgage and her 
daughters university costs. She says this has meant shes in danger of losing her house 
and her daughter may have to defer her university place for another year.
She said her previous car was written off in a serious accident which has resulted in her 
suffering from PTSD. She said the dealership were aware of the incident and her need 
for a safe and reliable car, but she was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality.
PSA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Miss Ns comments about why she doesnt think the amount of compensation Ive 
awarded is fair. But Im satisfied it is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has provided a detailed response about why she disagrees with the level of 
compensation Ive awarded. Ive considered every point shes raised, but Im not going to 
respond to everything. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service. Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points shes raised.
My provisional decision sets out that I agree with Miss N that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to her. And it also explains why I think Miss N is now allowed to 
reject the car. The CRA sets out that Miss N is entitled to a refund of the cash price of the 
goods in these circumstances. But it also sets out that PSA can make a deduction of the 
refund to take into account how much usage the consumer has had of the goods. 
I appreciate Miss N has had a number of issues with the car since she first acquired it and 
she has felt unsafe in it. But she has ultimately travelled around 38,000 miles in the car so I cant fairly require PSA refund everything shes paid for the car. I still think the monthly 
payments Miss N has paid up to March 2019 is a fair charge for the cars usage. So I dont 
think PSA needs to refund them.
I understand how distressing Miss N has found this situation and I naturally sympathise with 
the situation shes in. She acquired a nearly new car to give her the peace of mind of it being 
a safe and secure mode of transport. And I understand her desire to do this given the 
distressing nature of how her previous car was written off and the amount of miles she 
travels. 
I also note and understand the financial strain this matter has put her under with having to 
pay for two finance agreements on top of her essential bills. But £650 is a relatively high 
compensation award compared to what I would usually award for a similar situation and this 
is because of the heightened distress Miss N has suffered. I have considered everything 
Miss N has said about how distressing this has been for her. But I remain of the belief that 
£650 is fair compensation in these circumstances. I also think 8% simple interest on any 
refund being given fair compensation for her being out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require PSA Finance UK 
Limited to do the following to resolve this complaint:
1. Allow Miss N to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to her;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay  and arrange for any adverse markers 
to be removed from Miss Ns credit file;
3. Refund 50% of the advance payment of £8,644 she paid*;
4. Refund the monthly payments Miss N has made since March 2019*;
5. Refund anything Miss N has paid for taxing and insuring the car since March 2019*;
6. Refund the £40 Miss N paid for the independent report*; and
7. Pay £650 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Miss N.
* PSA Finance UK Limited should add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from
when Miss N paid them until she gets them back. If it thinks HM Revenue & Customs
requires it to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss N how much its taken
off. It should also give Miss N a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman