DRN-3944284
The complaint
Mr F complains about the standard of service from Lloyds Bank PLC and being prevented 
from accessing his bank account whilst overseas.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 January 2023, and this is what I 
said: 
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed. 
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 16 February 2023. 
But unless the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the 
following lines.
The complaint
Mr F complains about the standard of service from Lloyds Bank PLC and being prevented
from accessing his bank account whilst overseas.
What happened
Mr F opened a new account with Lloyds and makes three complaints about the standard of
service he received when he was overseas for several months.
Mr Fs first complaint is about Lloyds decision to block his account when he first tried to
transfer out funds from his new account. Mr F says Lloyds didnt offer any practical solutions
on how he could regain access to his account and, as he was in another country, he couldnt
identify himself at a UK branch and his funds were effectively frozen.
Lloyds are satisfied that they correctly applied the account block. Lloyds say it was a new
account and there was a security concern caused by Mr F attempting on-line transactions
when he was required to make a chip and pin transaction to activate his account.
Regarding Mr F being overseas and his inability to visit a UK branch and access his funds,
Lloyds thought this wasnt the case. This is because Mr F didnt mention he was overseas
when initially speaking to representatives. Also, Lloyds say that when Mr F was speaking to
the complaints manager several days later, he said he was planning to go away at the time
which suggested he wasnt overseas and could visit a UK branch.
Mr Fs second complaint is about Lloyds failure to pay him a £125 switching incentive.
Lloyds investigated and apologised for not providing Mr F with this payment. They said this
was due to a system error and to put things right they processed the £125 payment together
with a compensation payment of £50.
Mr Fs third complaint is about the standard of service he received from two Lloyds
representatives  the fraud adviser who blocked his account and the complaints manager
who dealt with his blocked account issue. Mr F says he felt that when the fraud adviser
placed a block on his account, she was irritated with him and had a passive aggressive
manner. Regarding the complaint manager Mr F felt that when he was speaking to her,
about the blocking issue, she had already made up her mind up and wasnt prepared to help.
Also, she didnt acknowledge there was a switching issue.
Regarding Mr Fs complaint about the fraud advisor Lloyds said they were disappointed as it
wasnt the level of service they would expect and sent Mr F £20 compensation.
Mr F complained to our service. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to take any
further action.
As Mr F remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I intend to uphold
this complaint for the following reasons.
I first looked at Mr Fs first complaint about his account being blocked and Lloyds not offering
any practical solutions leaving his funds frozen as he wasnt in the UK.
I couldnt see Lloyds made an error in placing a block on Mr Fs account. I thought Lloyds
action was risk adverse considering Mr Fs explanation of his account activity and answers
to security questions. However, as this was a new account and Lloyds have responsibilities
and a duty of care to protect customers money, I could understand their action. Also, there
was nothing to indicate that Mr F wouldnt be able to soon get to a UK branch to identify
himself.
From listening to the calls on file, I can understand why Lloyds believe Mr F was in the UK at
the time of the block and that he couldve visited a branch before departing. This is because
Mr F doesnt mention he is overseas, makes comments which suggest he was in the UK,
such as commenting on the weather and suggesting his covid symptoms are the main
problem in getting to a branch. Also, his IP address suggested he was in the UK.
However, Mr F has shown travel tickets, says he wasnt in the UK, has postal arrangements
in place and uses a VPN.
Having considered both the above points, I found the question of whether Mr F was in the
UK at the time of the block to be inconclusive.
I am though satisfied that Mr F was overseas at some point and Mr F clearly told Lloyds he
was overseas several days later. So, it appears that Lloyds belief, which may or may not be
correct, stopped them helping Mr F here. I say this because I cant see any evidence on file
which shows that Lloyds gave any consideration to how they mightve been able to assist Mr
F with identification overseas. This includes the complaints manager who was quick to close
down Mr Fs request and didnt seem interested in exploring options, even when Mr F
suggests options used by other banks. In addition, Lloyds havent responded to a request by
this service to explain available options.So, although I cant see that Mr F was left in a vulnerable position here, Im satisfied that this
lack of help caused Mr F inconvenience including his time on the phone to Lloyds.
I then looked at Mr Fs second complaint about not receiving the promised switching fee. I
can see that Lloyds have recognised a system error and I consider their offer of the fee and
£50 compensation to be a fair and reasonable resolution of this issue.
Finally, I considered the service Mr F received from the fraud adviser and the complaints
manager.
Although I can see Lloyds have apologised and offered £20 compensation for the service Mr
F received from the fraud adviser, from listening to the call, I couldnt see that Lloyds had
done anything wrong. As mentioned above Im satisfied with the fraud advisers action and,
regarding her behaviour, I found her polite and couldnt see that she displayed irritation with
Mr F or had a passive aggressive manner.
Regarding Mr Fs call with the complaint manager, whilst I found her extremely polite, I found
her responses unhelpful. This is because, as described by Mr F, when discussing his
complaints, she came across as dismissive and I also thought she gave the impression she
had already made her mind up, leaving Mr F with no alternative but to visit a UK branch.
Although she was apologetic, she didnt explain options that she had considered or could
possibly explore in order to help Mr F. Instead, she seemed to want to close down what was
a stressful situation for Mr F.
Also, the complaints manager tried to resolve the switching issue over the phone and, whilst
I appreciate a system issue subsequently came to light, she also seemed to want to close
this down, giving Mr F the impression there was an error on his or his other banks part.
In addition, although I cant see the fraud adviser did anything wrong, Mr F felt that he had
experienced a poor service and the complaints manager offered compensation, giving Mr F
the impression she either didnt necessarily agree or hadnt listened to the call.
So, considering all the above Im upholding this complaint.
To put things right I think Lloyds should pay Mr F £150 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by not trying to offer Mr F assistance in unblocking his account whilst
he was abroad. Also, an additional £150, less amounts already paid, for the additional
distress and inconvenience in the way they handled Mr Fs complaints. In addition, if it hasnt
already been paid, Lloyds should pay Mr F the £125 switching payment.
I did note Mr F requested compensation for his return flight to the UK. However, although I
think Mr F has been caused inconvenience here, I excluded this from the compensation Im
asking Lloyds to pay. This is because I dont think this would be fair or proportionate for
Lloyds to pay, as Mr F says he frequently travels, has multiple accounts and describes the
amount in his frozen account as being trivial.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
 Pay £150 compensation to Mr F for the distress and inconvenience caused by not
trying to offer assistance to unblock his account whilst he was abroad.
Pay an additional £150 compensation to Mr F, less amounts already paid, for the
additional distress and inconvenience for the way they handled his other complaints.
 Pay £125 to Mr F for the switching offer, if not already been paidIll look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 16 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
I received comments from both parties prior to the above deadline.
Lloyds said:
You have attached your provisional decision, detailing your reasons for wanting us to pay 
an additional £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience, and £125 to make 
up for them not reviving the switching offer. We agree with your decision. We will look to 
award an additional £425 in compensation on this case.
In Mr Fs response he:
Provided additional information on his overseas travel 
Requested I reconsider compensation for his flight
Questioned the competence of the fraud advisor, explaining that when he spoke to 
her, he didnt know the answer to a question about his name but has since 
researched that this is the name that comes up when entering the sort code for a 
company he was trying to credit. Also, there was another name he was asked about 
and he believes it is his long name truncated. Mr F thinks she was overzealous and 
should have either researched or known this, which wouldve prevented his account 
being blocked. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and, in light of the above comments, I further reviewed the 
file and listened to the fraud call.
Due to Mr Fs latest comments and his explanation of his account activity and answers to the 
fraud advisers security questions, I still think Lloyds action to block Mr Fs account was risk 
adverse. However, I couldnt see that Lloyds made an error here. Lloyds have 
responsibilities and a duty of care to protect customers money, and the adviser appears to 
have been guided by her system and procedure. Also, she believed there was a high risk 
due to the account being new. Furthermore, there was nothing to indicate that Mr F wouldnt 
be able to soon get to a UK branch to identify himself.
I am though satisfied that Mr F was overseas at some point and Lloyds didnt give 
consideration to how they mightve been able to help him unblock his account.
As this and the complaint managers behaviour caused Mr F both inconvenience and 
distress, Im pleased to note that Lloyds agrees it needs to take steps to put things right. 
Finally, I reconsidered Mr Fs request for compensation for his return flight to the UK. 
However, although Im satisfied Mr F was caused inconvenience and I now better 
understand the regularity of his overseas travels, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I still dont think it would fair to ask Lloyds to pay compensation for his flight. 
So, considering all the above, Im upholding this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Pay £150 compensation to Mr F for the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
trying to offer assistance to unblock his account whilst he was abroad.
Pay an additional £150 compensation to Mr F, less any amounts already paid, for the 
additional distress and inconvenience for the way they handled his other complaints.
Pay £125 to Mr F for the switching offer, if this hasnt already been paid
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman