DRN-3122644
The complaint
Mr R complains that TRS Independent Financial Advisers (TRS) gave him inappropriate
investment advice in relation to the type of funds invested in his Self-Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2011 Mr R owned his own business and had been a long-standing client of TRS, since the
early 1990s. At his request TRS transferred his personal pension into a SIPP which was to
be funded by contributions made by his business.
In 2013 TRS advised him to begin investing in a fund which tracked the price of various
grains. He agreed and over the following six years the contributions from his business into
these funds increased to a maximum of 57% of the total portfolio.
In October 2019 Mr R complained to TRS that the advice to invest in the grain fund had
meant his pension pot had lost 40% of its value and the investment strategy had been
inappropriate for his investment objective of steady modest growth.
Mr Rs complaint was acknowledged by TRS, but a formal response wasnt given, so in
January 2020 he referred his complaint to our service.
In October 2020 TRS sent Mr R its final response to his complaint, which it didnt uphold. It
said that Mr R had been fully appraised of, and agreed to, the investment strategy of making
regular small investments into the grain funds, the associated risks and that it was a longer-
term investment. It concluded that the fund and investment strategy were  both compliant 
and tailored to Mr Rs circumstances and aims.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought TRS hadnt treated Mr R fairly. She
thought that TRS hadnt made a personalised recommendation to Mr R showing how the
investment was in line with his attitude to risk and personal circumstances, and she wasnt
convinced that it was. She thought that having 57% of his portfolio in high-risk funds was
inappropriate and there was no evidence that Mr R had agreed to this.
TRS didnt agree with the investigators view. It said, in summary:
It always treated its clients fairly, and had a large client base made up solely from 
recommendations.
Mr R didnt want to invest his pension contributions in low-risk investments.
The high risk associated with the grain funds was mitigated by the investment 
strategy followed.
Mr R was wholly comfortable with the fund and the investment strategy and was keen 
to invest, evidenced by signing the transaction documents each time he increased 
his contributions.
Mr Rs pension fund was a very minor asset compared to his portfolio of properties, 
which provided a rental income, and his business which he valued at around £2m.
However, this didnt change the investigators view. She thought, in summary:
The grain fund was very niche and high risk, and this made up 57% of his only 
retirement provision, and even though Mr R had provided signed consent, the onus 
was on TRS to provide suitable financial advice.
The portfolio of properties wasnt generally liquid, which should be the case when 
someone approaches retirement age.
There was no fact-find or risk questionnaire as would be expected, and TRS had a 
one size fits all approach.
Just making consumers aware of the risks and showing them presentations and 
graphs doesnt absolve the firm of its responsibility to provide suitable advice.
TRS didnt agree, so the matter has been brought to me for a final decision. TRS have given
a further response, in summary:
Mr Rs investment and successful business history shows he is a risk taker. He had 
concentrated on building his business and property holdings for his future financial 
security.
His assertion that he didnt want to take any investment risk with his pension 
provision couldnt be taken at face value. He had enough capital and income to retire, 
with the risk associated with his pension being only a negligible element of his 
financial resources.
TRS knew Mr R very well and over many years. He had reviewed and agreed the 
investment strategy on more than one occasion, he had agreed to the risks involved 
and was a well-informed purchaser.
Building a property portfolio was a good way to build financial security, and it 
encouraged Mr R to do so and provided good income yields.
Mr R saying he didnt have a full understanding of the investment information 
provided to him was not credible.
On 8 October 2021 I issued a provisional decision, as I didnt agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. This provisional decision said:
This complaint centres on whether the initial advice to invest in the grain fund, considering
Mr Rs objectives and circumstances at the time, was suitable. But there was continuing
advice to increase Mr Rs investment which steadily increased the proportion of his pension
invested in this fund. So I need to consider whether this subsequent advice was also
suitable.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant laws and
regulations as well as the regulators rules, guidance and standards. Where appropriate I
also consider what was good industry practice at the time of the advice.
In 2013, the obligations placed on businesses by the regulator to assess the clients
suitability in respect of investment advice were found in the industry rule book. Specifically
COBS 9.2.1:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or
a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments,
the firm must obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a)knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is
suitable for him.
COBS 9.2.2. goes on to say:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing,
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the
specific transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks
consistent with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his
portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include,
where relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of
the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets,
including liquid assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial
commitments.
In practice this means looking at the investors attitude to investment risk, their 
circumstances and objectives, including how long they want to invest for.
Knowledge of its client
TRS hasnt been able to produce any documents which show its assessment of Mr Rs
attitude to risk, nor his investment objectives at the time it advised him on the grain
investment strategy. But it has provided details of the length of time Mr R was its client, and
that it knew him, his business, and his financial affairs very well. And it has told this service
that Mr R was a risk-taker who was an experienced investor and businessman. But Mr R
said in his complaint to TRS that his objective in setting up his pension fund was steady
modest growth.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
TRS had been advising Mr R on a range of matters for 20 years at the time of the advice in
2013. And hed had the same adviser throughout this time. And whilst much of the testimony
provided by TRS about the advice and services it provided since 1993 is not relevant to this
complaint, it does show me the depth of the client-adviser relationship they held, and that
TRS knew, to some considerable degree, about his personal and business circumstances
and objectives.Attitude to risk
Mr R had a personal pension up until 2011, when he transferred this into a SIPP. Now Ive
not been able to see Mr Rs specific objectives in this transfer, so I cant say for certain what
they wouldve been, but a transfer such as this is usually so that the holder can gain access
to a wider range of investments than in a personal pension. And with this wider range, the
potential gains, and associated risk, is generally higher than within the original pension. So
on balance, I think this is evidence that Mr R was looking to improve his potential gains,
whilst taking more risk with his pension.
Mr Rs experience as a successful businessman is also relevant here. I think it is fair to
conclude that it wouldve provided him with an understanding of risk such that I wouldve
expected hed have said something if he was uncomfortable with an investment described as
niche, or high risk in the documents provided to him. Im not persuaded by what Ive seen
that Mr R wanted to be cautious with his SIPP.
Capacity for loss
I also have to consider Mr Rs capacity for loss, and whether it is likely that he wouldve
agreed to place his only pension at a higher risk. TRS have provided testimony that Mr R
was the sole owner of a successful business, that he valued at about £2 million. He also was
receiving rental income from several houses. And although property isnt considered to be a
liquid investment, receiving an income from them is. The value of his pension fund was
relatively modest in comparison to his other assets, and Mr R was still some way off from
retirement. So given all of this, and as this was a long term strategy, Im satisfied he
probably didnt place much reliance on it when it came to retirement planning. And whilst
acknowledging the higher-risk grain fund made up the majority of the pension investments,
this was only a very small percentage of his overall assets. And in 2011 a SIPP was
generally also reserved for funds of at least £100,000. So, Im satisfied Mr R probably had
the capacity to absorb any potential losses within it.
Understanding the investment strategy and associated risk
TRS has provided the presentation it says it gave to Mr R on more than one occasion, which
explained the investment strategy it proposed Mr R use. And it has said that as a result of
detailed discussions with him, Mr R had agreed the grain fund was a good diversification for
the investments within his pension, and was a small proportion of his overall assets. But I
also think the strategy diversified not only the assets within the SIPP, but his overall personal
and business portfolio. And increasing the investment over time, as opposed a one-off
investment, meant the risk was lessened.
Ive also seen that Mr R had authorised TRS, on several occasions, to make further
investment into the grain fund, which followed the strategy set out to him. And considering
he was a successful business man Im satisfied that it is likely that had he either not
understood the strategy or disagreed with it, he wouldnt have invested as he did, or at least
he wouldve asked questions or corrected his investment time horizon if he was hoping for a
shorter term investment.
So whilst it hasnt been able to produce specific documentary evidence in relation to Mr Rs
financial situation at the time of the advice in 2013, Im satisfied that TRS had sufficient
knowledge of his circumstances, financial objectives and attitude to risk to be able to make
their personal recommendation to initially invest in the grain fund.
But this recommendation would only be suitable if it was part of an investment strategywhich Mr R both understood and agreed to, and as Ive said above, Im satisfied that he did.
So, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied, given his circumstances, attitude to risk and
objectives, that this was a suitable investment strategy from the beginning, and future advice
to purchase more of the fund was consistent with this strategy. And Ive seen insufficient
information to suggest that his objectives and circumstances changed such that this strategy
became unsuitable.
TRS responded but had no further information. Mr R responded, and this is summarised 
below:
He didnt want a high-risk investment. He made clear when the pension was set up 
he wanted medium growth.
He wasnt an experienced investor
that his pension is a minor asset is irrelevant
having 57% of his pension invested in grain was an unacceptable risk
he expected investment growth and regular dividends, which didnt happen
he trusted the advice and guidance of TRS unquestioningly, but this was mis-placed
TRS advised him to transfer his personal pension into the SIPP
He wouldnt consider any loss to his pension acceptable
He then drew my attention to the contract he signed with TRS which he said showed he had 
a balanced attitude to investment risk, and also to a letter from his business to TRS 
expressing concern about the amount being invested into the pension, and the spread of 
investments, along with the replies he received from TRS. I had already seen and assessed 
both of these documents prior to my provisional decision. 
Mr R also sent me a copy of a letter written by his new adviser, which questioned the nature 
and strategy of the investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has submitted a lot of information and commentary on the events, and I thank him for 
drawing my attention to the specific documents he included. But having reconsidered all the 
evidence, including the subsequent submissions, I see no reason to divert from my original 
decision.
Ill firstly address the letter from his new financial adviser. Whilst Ive read it, Im not taking its 
contents into account in this decision, because it is written with the benefit of hindsight. I 
need to base my decision on what was known at the time of the advice and the ongoing 
investments, not on a different set of circumstances after the event.
I acknowledge that his ATR was described as balanced, and as I said in my provisional 
decision, a transfer into a SIPP, with all the additional investment opportunities this allows, 
backs up that Mr R wanted to take more risk than he could had his pension remained where 
it was. And a balanced attitude to risk isnt that of a cautious and inexperienced investor.
I dont agree that the fact that a pension that is a minor asset is irrelevant. I contend it is 
entirely relevant as it shows how much it would probably be relied upon at the point of his retirement. And the fact that Mr R had many other very valuable assets which were providing 
an income and could be liquidated if necessary, shows he had the capacity to absorb any 
loss experienced in his pension investments. 
And whilst I acknowledge the letter from his business questions the amount being invested 
into the pension, and the spread of investments, the letter is focussed on the poor 
investment returns at that point, as opposed to the actual investments and strategy being 
followed. And I can see these points were apparently satisfactorily addressed by TRS as 
there was no follow up. And whilst I completely understand Mr R expected investment 
growth, as is the nature of investments growth is not usually guaranteed, and Im satisfied 
this was adequately explained.
Whilst I agree that on the face of it, having 57% of a pension pot in one investment type is 
unconventional, as I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the strategy of steadily 
increasing the stock whilst the price was low lessened the overall risk, taking it to a level that 
was appropriate to his own ATR.
I note that Mr R says any loss to his pension fund would be unacceptable, but this is 
completely contrary to having a balanced attitude to investment risk and isnt reflected in 
any of the evidence Ive seen. Im satisfied that Mr R understood and agreed with both the 
type of investments and the strategy followed, and the potential risks. 
My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman