DRN-2818930
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that, in respect of his home insurance claim for water damage, Royal &
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc wont pay his full cost of repairs.  
What happened
In September 2018 Mr W made a claim to RSA following his discovery of water leaking from
a burst pipe under his kitchen floor. Following its initial inspections of the area RSA decided
that the damage had occurred prior to Mr W taking out the policy with RSA. He made a
complaint to this service where an ombudsman made a decision that RSA should settle the
claim and if it pays a cash settlement, to add 8% interest from the date of its final response
letter.
Mr W has carried out all the repairs to the property, with his partner and using local
tradesmen. However he believes he was entitled to receive the full cost of a contractor doing
the repairs under the terms of his insurance. He had obtained a full quote from a contractor
network, for £41,135.72 including VAT. RSA reinvestigated the damage and said Mr Ws
quote was excessive and that it included the cost of a solid wood kitchen. Its contractors and
loss adjusters had assessed this as being MDF. RSA offered a payment of £8,705.42
(including VAT) in July 2020. After reviewing the schedule of works produced by Mr Ws
contractor it increased its offer to £10,896.71 plus VAT. Mr W objected to this as being very
much lower than his quote. However his quote was based on a full replacement kitchen of
solid wood. RSA reiterated that it had assessed the kitchen as being constructed of MDF.
Additionally it would only pay 50% of the undamaged units in the kitchen, which it had taken
account of in its offer.
On referral to this service our investigator ascertained that Mr W could only produce invoices
for the supply of the kitchen (which he had obtained at a discount due to his partner working
for a kitchen supplier) and the carpet. Our investigator pointed out that Mr W couldnt expect
to get a settlement which included things he hadnt paid for. Nevertheless RSA had
assessed the cost of the work which Mr W disagreed with. She proposed that he obtain two
further quotes based on the scope of work drawn up by RSA and that it pay the claim based
on those quotes. She further proposed that it pay three months disturbance allowance for
two people which RSAs assessor had said was not unrealistic.
RSA initially agreed to Mr W obtaining the quotes but then reviewed the matter and said that
it would deal with the claim in accordance with any costs Mr W had actually incurred. It
would review those costs subject to a fraud investigation it proposed to carry out, pointing
out that Mr W had previously submitted estimates, including from the kitchen supplier in
question, for much higher costs.
Our investigator disagreed that RSA should investigate further. She pointed out that the
question of such an investigation had already been considered in the previous complaint.
She further said that Mr W believed that he was entitled to claim, under the terms of the
policy, for the full cost of repair. He had had to buy cheaper materials and pay cash where
he could. In respect of the kitchen he had a quote for a solid wood kitchen which he was
adamant was there before. But he couldnt afford to have such a kitchen supplied on his
budget so he had to opt for the cheaper kitchen. Mr W also advised that he has now sold the
property.
RSA disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought RSA should settle the claim by 
payment of a cash sum without carrying out any further investigations into it.   
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
scope of this decision
I should be clear what I am now reviewing in respect of this complaint. RSA has raised an
issue concerning Mr Ws costs and wishes to carry out further investigations about these. It
previously wanted to carry out such an investigation about the cost of the work and what it
deemed to be pre-existing issues. Our investigator was of the view that those issues had
already been considered by the previous ombudsman and that Mr W wasnt trying to obtain
something he didnt believe he was entitled to. Ive noted specifically that RSA asked for this
issue to be addressed by an ombudsman, so I will address it here.
further investigations
RSAs has said it previously wanted to carry out an investigation to address concerns
regarding pre-existing damage and betterment. Those concerns were put before the
previous ombudsman. Although she didnt specifically address them in her decision, she did
address the pre-existing damage and betterment aspects of the claim. Her decision was for
RSA to settle Mr Ws claim for an escape of water and if it makes a cash settlement, it
should add simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent to that from the date of its final response
letter to the date of settlement.
So RSA should be settling the claim; it cant raise historical concerns about it.
But Mr W has now presented new estimates which werent the subject of the previous
decision. So with regard to its latest proposal that it reinvestigate the claim, again bearing in
mind RSAs request for my decision in this respect, I would say that in my view Mr W isnt
asking for RSA to pay for something which he didnt genuinely believe he was entitled to.
This is because he had said all along that he wanted payment for the claim in accordance
with the terms of the policy. Had he not carried out the work himself, he would have been
entitled to payment in accordance with a reasonable payment for the cost of repair to his
kitchen and associated rooms. He and RSA may have disagreed with the total scope of
repairs but there was no reason to believe that the estimates he obtained were not entirely
genuine.
I would point out that the previous ombudsman required RSA to settle Mr Ws claim. Our
investigator pointed out to Mr W that he couldnt get payment for work that he hadnt had
carried out (e.g. the cost of a solid wood kitchen). RSA carried out a revisit of the property in
September 2020. It was fully aware (as it noted it) that the work had been done and was
quite happy to issue its revised offer of circa £10,800. It didnt do this on the basis that Mr Wwas going to provide invoices for the work actually done but rather on its view of the
reasonable cost of the work. I should also say that if a cash settlement is paid its up to the
policyholder whether and how they carry out the work. Any VAT would only have been paid
on production of an invoice. The previous ombudsmans decision required RSA to settle the
claim, and Im satisfied that there are no concerns with the new evidence Mr W has provided
and RSA has had chance to consider. So I think RSA should settle the claim without carrying
out further investigations into it. And, to draw this matter to a close, Im going to decide what
that settlement should be.
what RSA should pay
As to how much RSA should pay, as our investigator advised Mr W, I have to look at the
situation as it is rather than what Mr W would have been entitled to if he hadnt carried out
the work himself. Unfortunately he has only been able to produce invoices for the supply of
the kitchen and for the carpets. He said everything was done by him and his partner and a
friend that is a tradesman, as they had very little money to do the work as it was. They paid
cash where they could to get better deals, and at that time, didn't expect to even get this far 
or get any money back. I note what he says but I dont think in those circumstances I could
agree with the view that Mr W should obtain two further quotes for the work. It would be
difficult to do so anyway as the property now has new owners and they wouldnt be obliged
to co-operate. I would also say that Mr W knew he was in dispute with RSA yet chose not to
keep evidence of the costs hes paid out.
We have an invoice from the kitchen company for £ 3,171.66, although I think that was
included in RSAs offer. But otherwise, as Mr W got discounts from the kitchen company and
paid a cheaper cost for the work by doing it himself or by paying cash, I think that it would be
fair for RSA to pay a settlement in the terms it has offered - £10,896.71. it doesnt need to
pay the VAT as no VAT has actually been incurred.
As for disturbance allowance, RSA has assessed that it would be fair to pay this, and that a
period of 90 days was not unrealistic. as Mr W and his partner were without their kitchen for
a long period. So 90 days at £10 per person per day which amounts to a further £1,800.
RSA should add 8% interest* to the settlement from the date of the previous final response
letter (27 October 2018) until it reimburses Mr W. This takes into account that the previous
ombudsman required RSA to settle the claim and pay interest on any cash settlement from
that date. Ive also noted that RSA could have paid a settlement on account but chose not to.
Putting things right
RSA should pay a settlement of £12,696.71 made up as follows:
Cost of work £ 10,896.71
Disturbance allowance £   1,800.00
Total £ 12,696.71
To this RSA should add simple interest* at 8% per year from the date of the previous final
response letter, 27 October 2018, until it reimburses Mr W.
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should Mr W request it, RSA should provide him with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
As both parties have accepted my decision, I will make no further comment. My provisional 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision.My final decision
 I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to act in
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman