DRN-3459482
The complaint
Mr G has complained that National Savings & Investments (NS&I) delayed payment to him 
of the proceeds of a fixed interest savings certificate  which meant he lost out on the money 
he would have made from the investment he was planning. 
What happened
In early 2021, two of Mr Gs investments with NS&I matured.  He gave instructions to NS&I 
to pay the proceeds to his bank account.  A few days later, he received the proceeds of one 
investment  but not the second.
Mr G called NS&I who told him there was a security issue they had to address before 
releasing the money.  When he checked again the following day, he still couldnt move the 
money.  So he called NS&I again.  The agent he spoke to said the matter should be resolved 
in 48 hours and theyd send an email to the relevant department to try and speed things up.
Mr G waited a further 48 hours but wasnt contacted by NS&I to try and resolve the security 
issue.  So he complained.  Before NS&I wrote to Mr G with their response, and almost seven 
weeks after hed first request payment, the block was removed, allowing him access to his 
money.
NS&I responded to Mr Gs complaint shortly after that.  They explained transactions are 
randomly selected for security checks and this had happened in Mr Gs case.  And that, 
unfortunately, those checks hadnt been processed as quickly as usual because of the 
changes in their working practices necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic.
But NS&I did acknowledge Mr G had been given an unrealistic expectation of when matters 
would be resolved by the agent who told him it would take 48 hours.  They paid Mr G £40 
compensation for this.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response and brought his complaint to us.  He told us hed 
tried to withdraw the money to make another investment  which he now couldnt do.  And if 
hed been able to make it, hed have made around £1,800.  So he thought NS&I should 
make good this loss and recognise stress and inconvenience by making a total payment of 
£2,000.
Our investigator contacted NS&I for their business file to help her decide whether theyd 
been fair in how theyd dealt with Mr G.  When sending the file, NS&I offered a further £60 
compensation, bringing the total payable to Mr G to £100.
The investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded the two payments totalling £100 
were a fair resolution.  She said we could only say NS&I should make a payment for Mr Gs 
financial loss if they shouldnt have carried out the review and if their delay could have been 
avoided.  As she couldnt say no checks should have been done, she concluded it wasnt fair 
to say NS&I should reimburse Mr G for what he says hes lost.
But the investigator did agree that NS&Is service could have been better and said £100 was 
a fair amount of compensation for that.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.  But Im not asking NS&I to do any more 
than theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr G was frustrated by the delay he encountered when he tried to access the 
proceeds of his fixed interest savings certificate  and why he thinks he should be 
compensated further.  But  as our investigator explained  I can only decide NS&I should 
do more to resolve his complaint if Im satisfied that NS&I did something wrong  and the 
impact on Mr G is the result of that mistake.
Financial businesses have a responsibility to make checks to ensure their customers money 
is protected.  Mr G has said that none of the circumstances NS&I set out in their terms and 
conditions applied to him.  NS&I havent disagreed with that.  But theyve explained that 
random checks are made, and Mr Gs request was selected on that basis.  Nothing Ive seen 
suggests those checks were inappropriate.  So I cant say it was unreasonable for NS&I to 
make them.
Theres no dispute the security checks took longer than anticipated by either party.  I agree.  
So Ive thought about the impact those checks had on Mr G to decide whether NS&I have 
done enough to compensate him.
Ive read the terms and conditions which applied to the account.  They say that instructions 
received before 8pm on a banking day will be processed that day and payment will normally 
reach a customers account two banking days later. 
But the terms go onto explain that there may be occasions where NS&I dont carry out those 
instructions within that timeframe  for example, when theyre making security checks.  And, 
while NS&I say theyll unblock accounts as soon as possible, the terms dont contain any 
specific timescale for doing so.
I think the terms and conditions make clear theres no guarantee a payment request will be 
processed within a particular time.  So, while I appreciate Mr G wanted to use the proceeds 
to make a particular investment, I dont think its fair for me to say NS&I are responsible for 
him not being able to do that.  
They didnt know what he wanted to do with his money when he requested a withdrawal.  
And when he told them, they did what they could to speed up the process.  I dont think its 
reasonable for me to say they should have done any more.  So Im not asking them to pay 
Mr G the amount he says he lost because he couldnt invest as he intended.
Ive also thought about the level of compensation for distress and inconvenience thats been 
offered  which is now a total of £100.  Mr G requested around £200.
Ive thought about this.  But Im not persuaded I should direct NS&I to pay more.  The 
documents Ive seen show Mr G contacted NS&I by phone on three consecutive days.  He 
then raised a complaint two days later.  Ive not seen anything which shows me he continued 
to chase the matter.  Rather, it appears he waited for an answer to his complaint without 
contacting NS&I in the interim.So  while Ive no doubt that Mr G was inconvenienced by what happened  I havent seen 
anything to justify increasing the compensation NS&I have already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about National Savings & 
Investments and directing them to pay him the further £60 theyve offered (in addition to the 
£40 already paid) to resolve his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman