DRN-2425253
The complaint
Mr P complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have mismanaged his legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) claim. He holds them responsible for the actions of the legal representatives 
involved and believes they shouldnt have paid the costs and expenses without his approval. 
He believes his legal action is likely to fail because of this. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. 
Mr P had a LEI policy provided by UKI. The limit of indemnity on the policy was £100,000. 
Mr P made a claim on his policy for assistance with a dispute with his employer that he 
wanted to take to employment tribunal. It was agreed Mr P could use his own solicitors B. In 
May 2016 B confirmed to UKI that the claim had the required prospects of success. 
Around October 2016 UKI sought to limit the amount they would spend on Mr Ps claim on 
the basis of proportionality. Mr P complained and UKI upheld his complaint. They accepted 
that his case was exceptional and agreed not to limit the indemnity based on the amount he 
might be awarded in court  they also paid Mr P compensation. 
In November 2016 there was a significant development, part of which involved whether 
certain information could legally be disclosed. This legal barrier to disclosure (which had a 
public interest element to it) had to be overcome before the employment tribunal could 
continue. 
B continued working on Mr Ps claim and more recently it became apparent that the barrier 
to disclosure was no longer applicable. But by this time, nearly all of the limit of indemnity 
had been used. In April 2018 B submitted their costs and expenses to UKI.
UKI appointed a costs draftsman and settled the costs in line with the draftsmans 
recommendation. Mr P says he is now in an impossible position. Without his insurance cover 
he is unable to fund further legal action. He believes that the disclosure issue in November 
2016 negatively impacted on the prospects of his claim succeeding and that UKI ought to 
have withdrawn cover. 
He says the public interest element of his claim meant he would have been able to have 
secured pro-bono representation to overcome the disclosure barrier. And he then would 
have had indemnity remaining to take his case to tribunal. He feels UKI knew (or ought to 
have known) that his claim couldnt succeed on the amount of indemnity available. 
He is also unhappy that UKI settled Bs costs, as he says this shouldnt have happened 
without his approval. He says he ought to have been provided with a copy of the terms of 
appointment between B and UKI and says he is now in a weak position when negotiating 
with B, as they have been paid already. Mr P also holds UKI responsible for Bs conduct and 
would like indemnity to be put in place for him to continue his claim. He would also like 
compensation as his health has been impacted by this. 
UKI didnt uphold the complaint and the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think UKI needed to do anything further. She concluded it was fair for 
them to rely on the advice from B and there was nothing that she thought ought to have 
prompted them to ask that the prospects were reassessed. She also didnt think that UKI 
were responsible for the actions of B, or that UKI were wrong to settle their costs. Mr P 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
Mr Ps policy (like most LEI policies) includes a requirement that any claim has reasonable 
prospects of success. Broadly speaking this means that, for cover to be available under the 
policy, the underlying legal action must have a 51% or greater chance of succeeding. 
UKI themselves arent legal experts, they are an insurer. So, I think its fair for UKI to rely on 
suitably qualified legal advice when making decisions about a claim. Those with legal 
training and experience are best placed to make the judgement on the prospects of success. 
And I wouldnt expect UKI to challenge this unless the legal advice was so obviously wrong 
that a layperson would notice. 
Further to this B are a legal firm and they were acting for Mr P as their client. They will be 
subject to their own regulator and ombudsman service. I appreciate Mr P strongly feels that 
this isnt the case; but UKI are not responsible for the quality of legal advice or the service 
provided by B. The fact that Bs costs were being met by UKI doesnt change this. 
B confirmed Mr Ps claim had the required prospects of success. The terms of appointment 
between UKI and B required that B immediately notify UKI if the prospects of the claim 
succeeding fell below 51%. Ive reviewed the information provided and at no point have I 
seen that B advised UKI that this had happened. 
UKI as the insurer wont be involved in the day to day running of the legal action, that again 
falls to B. Ive carefully considered if UKI could reasonably have had any other reason to 
suspect that there might be an issue with the prospects of success. Particularly in relation to 
the legal barrier to disclosure. But, I dont think they had any reason to intervene. B are the 
legal experts and there were complex issues at hand, I wouldnt expect UKI to challenge 
this.
And as our investigator pointed out, there was a suggestion that making disclosure in this 
case might have resulted in Mr P inadvertently committing a criminal offence. So, I think UKI 
acted reasonably when continuing the cover to allow B to protect Mr Ps legal position. 
Withdrawing cover at that point, might not have been fair and reasonable. The advice from B 
at the time supporting the actions they intended to take was well reasoned and thorough. 
And whilst it isnt something that forms part of this complaint, I note that when UKI did 
previously try to limit the cover available (due to proportionality), Mr P complained. Whereas 
the complaint now being brought is that cover ought to have been withdrawn, only a few weeks after the previous complaint. I think this complaint is being brought with the benefit of 
hindsight and at the time, Mr P would have resisted any attempts to limit or withdraw cover. 
There is a policy term, that Ive shared with Mr P ahead of this decision, which required him 
to inform UKI if he believed there were no longer reasonable prospects of success. If Mr P 
felt that was the case at the time, he too could have informed UKI, which might have 
prompted a request for a specific further assessment on that point. 
Mr P says at the time he was mentally deranged, and that as a layperson, he had no 
knowledge of the impact of developments on the prospects of success. He says he was 
reliant on B and UKI as the professionals and that they both let him down. He repeated that 
UKI are jointly and severally liable for anything B did and he feels putting any blame or 
responsibility on him is wrong as he was mentally ill. 
Ive considered all of this, and Im sorry to hear of Mr Ps ill health. But it doesnt change my 
opinion that it was reasonable for UKI to rely on the information provided to them by B. And 
as Ive explained above, UKI arent jointly liable for what B did or didnt do. And by pointing 
out that Mr P also had the opportunity (and obligation under the policy) to tell UKI if the 
prospects had fallen, doesnt mean that I think UKI are at fault here. For clarity, Im not 
finding that Mr P should have informed UKI and didnt. Im just highlighting that if Mr P felt it 
was so obvious the prospects had fallen, there is a term that required him to tell UKI.
Mr P was clear from the start that he had no funds available to pursue his dispute outside of 
his insurance cover. And UKI raised their concerns about this with B on numerous 
occasions. B explained that this had been discussed with Mr P and that there was an 
intention to seek support from charities and other organisations (because of the public 
interest element to the claim). I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I 
dont think UKI had any objective reason to doubt what B had told them. 
Mr P is also unhappy that UKI didnt seek his approval before settling Bs costs. In short, 
there is nothing in the policy that requires them to do so. UKI explained that the costs were 
assessed by a costs draftsman  to ensure they were reasonable and necessarily incurred in 
connection with the claim. This is common practice for these sorts of claims and not 
something I consider to be unfair. I appreciate Mr P feels this might have put him in a weaker 
negotiating position for any complaint with B, but I still dont think UKI had any reason to 
withhold settling Bs costs. Mr P points out that B submitted costs in excess of his limit of 
indemnity  he says he didnt authorise this. But again, this isnt something UKI are 
responsible for. UKI made clear what the maximum indemnity was.
Mr P says he should have been provided with a copy of the terms of appointment between B 
and UKI. UKI explained that the majority of their policyholders use a panel solicitor and so 
this isnt something they provide as a matter of course. I think this is reasonable. I can also 
see that they told Mr P the terms had been sent to B in May 2016. They also offered to help 
if he had any further queries, so Im satisfied, if he had asked to see the terms, that UKI 
would have provided them. 
I accept that Mr P may have a valid dispute with B, but this isnt something that Im able to 
comment on. I can only consider the actions of the insurer, UKI. And looking at everything as 
a whole I dont think they have acted outside of the terms of the policy or treated Mr P 
unfairly. The policy is clear that the maximum indemnity available is £100,000 and theres no 
reasonable basis on which I could tell UKI to increase this. So, Im not going to tell them they 
need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman