DRN-3244769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that a home insurance policy sold by Endsleigh Insurance 
Services Ltd didnt include cover for subsidence.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs M purchased a home insurance policy which was sold by 
Endsleigh. In August 2019, whilst providing evidence of the policy to their mortgage 
provider, Mr and Mrs M noticed the policy excluded subsidence cover and cancelled 
the policy. They purchased a new policy which included subsidence cover from a 
different seller. The policy was insured by the same underwriter who Ill refer to as P.
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their new policy as theyd noticed 
some cracking in the property. But they were told to refer back to their previous policy 
as the claim had been made within the first two months of the new policy start date.
Mr and Mrs M approached Endsleigh who attempted to assist with the claim. 
Ultimately, it was concluded the damage was because of subsidence, but P didnt 
accept the claim under either of the policies. Mr and Mrs M werent happy about this 
and complained to Endsleigh.
Endsleigh agreed it had an opportunity to make the exclusion for subsidence clearer 
to Mr and Mrs M before they purchased the policy. But it said the exclusion was 
prominently shown in the policy schedule, and that Mr and Mrs M shouldve checked 
the documents carefully to ensure the cover was suitable for them. So, it offered 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience they had suffered.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. They wanted Endsleigh 
to cover the costs of any repairs caused by the subsidence damage, which theyve 
had to pay for privately.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld 
because they were persuaded Mr and Mrs M would have bought a different policy 
had the subsidence exclusion been clearer, so they wouldve had the appropriate 
level of cover in place when they needed to claim.
Our investigator recommended Endsleigh reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the costs 
associated with investigating and repairing the subsidence damage  as it wasnt 
regulated to carry out claims activities  and pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Endsleigh doesnt agree because it says the documents it provides are templates 
which would be the same for a range of policies. It says Mr and Mrs M didnt raise 
any concerns with the policy during the 14-day cooling off period and should have 
read the documents more carefully to ensure they were suitable for their needs. 
Endsleigh added that it didnt think Mr and Mrs M would be able to source a policy 
with subsidence cover easily. It said that given the date of the claim the ABI domestic 
subsidence claims agreement showed that P, as the underwriter of both policies, 
should take responsibility for managing and paying the claim.
Our investigator therefore provided Endsleigh with evidence to show Mr and Mrs M 
were able to obtain a home insurance policy with subsidence cover for an enhanced 
excess of £2,500.
As the matter remained unresolved, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
My decision focuses on the actions of Endsleigh in selling the policy. So, whilst Ive 
read and considered its comments regarding Ps actions, Im not going to consider 
Ps obligations in terms of the ABI domestic subsidence claims agreement here. And 
in any event, the policy Endsleigh sold excluded subsidence cover, so there isnt any 
provision available for P to split the costs of the claim across both policies.
Ive considered the policy schedule, and I dont agree that the exclusion is given 
sufficient prominence. It is shown on the last page of the policy schedule, and after a 
section which includes a subsidence excess on the policy. Given the potential costs 
of subsidence claims, I think this is a significant term and restriction of cover which 
shouldve been drawn to Mr and Mrs Ms attention. And it was Endsleighs 
responsibility as the seller of the policy, regardless of the layout of the policy 
documents, to make this very clear.
Endsleigh has already accepted that it couldve done more to highlight the 
subsidence exclusion at the point of sale. And I agree  something along the lines of 
a covering letter drawing the exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ms attention wouldve been 
within its remit. And I dont think the fact that Mr and Mrs M didnt raise their concerns 
in the 14-day cooling off period is enough to overcome this. So, as Endsleigh didnt 
draw the subsidence exclusion sufficiently to Mr and Mrs Ms attention, Ive gone on 
to consider the impact to them here.
Mr and Mrs M didnt indicate they wanted subsidence excluded on their statement of 
fact application, and the evidence shows they answered the questions about 
previous subsidence issues correctly. So had Endsleigh sufficiently drawn the 
subsidence exclusion to their attention, I am persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms testimony 
and subsequent actions that they wouldve purchased a different policy. Therefore, in order to put Mr and Mrs M back into the position they shouldve been in, 
that is to say with a home insurance policy that covered their subsidence claim, I find 
it reasonable for Endsleigh to reimburse the costs that Mr and Mrs M have incurred in 
dealing with the claim privately, less the cost of the enhanced subsidence excess 
they wouldve had to have paid if their insurer had accepted the claim.
Having reviewed the evidence of the site investigations and structural engineer 
reports Ive been provided with, the costs I am awarding are linked to the 
proportionate, effective, and lasting repair to the property. As far as I am aware, the 
proposed solution is currently linked to tree mitigation works and level monitoring, 
with the property superstructure and boundary wall repairs to follow when the ground 
movement stabilises. So, Endsleigh needs to reimburse all these associated costs to 
Mr and Mrs M here.
Should any further repairs be required, or have already been completed, this will 
need to be supported with the relevant expert reports. And should there be a dispute 
over the extent of repairs required in order to be effective and lasting, then this will 
need to be dealt with as a separate issue to this complaint.
I can see that this matter has caused Mr and Mrs M some distress and upset in 
having to source an alternative policy, and then having to instruct investigations and 
manage the claim privately when their claim was turned down. I cant compensate for 
the typical disruption caused by a subsidence claim, as this wouldve most likely 
happened in any event. But I find that a payment of £300 compensation is a fair 
reflection of the trouble and upset caused by Endsleigh here. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr M and      
Mrs Ms complaint, Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd should:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Ms costs for reinstating and repairing their property 
(including any expert reports and site investigations), subject to appropriate evidence 
being received of these costs. Endsleigh may deduct the sum of £2,500 total from 
these costs to represent the excess Mr and Mrs M would have most likely paid an 
insurer to deal with the claim;
Pay 8% simple interest on these amounts, from the date Mr and Mrs M settled each 
invoice, to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman