DRN-3004789
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a cancellation claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an annual travel insurance policy that covered them between 
1 September 2019 and 31 August 2020. The insurer was Ageas.
Mr and Mrs B had booked a holiday abroad between 25 and 31 August 2020. The airline 
cancelled the flights on 25 July 2020 and Mr and Mrs B got a refund for them, as well as one 
of the accommodations theyd booked. But Mr and Mrs B couldnt get a refund for one of the 
accommodations theyd booked, so they made a claim for these costs to Ageas.
Ageas said that the airline cancelled the flights in response to the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advising against all but essential international travel due to Covid-19. Ageas said this wasnt 
listed as an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. Additionally, Ageas 
said this section excluded any claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government 
of any country.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with Ageas. They said the airline never stated Covid-19 as the 
reason for cancellation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong in 
declining the claim, it just hadnt done it for the right reasons. Our investigator noted that the 
country where Mr and Mrs B were intending to travel to was exempt from the FCDO advice 
against international travel on 25 July 2020 when the airline cancelled the flight, and on 
25 August 2020 when Mr and Mrs B were due to start their holiday. 
But in any event, our investigator said that an airline cancelling flights wasnt an insured 
event under the cancellation section of the policy. So, had Mr and Mrs B been able to buy a 
new flight, they couldve gone ahead with the holiday as planned. Overall, our investigator 
didnt think there was anything else Ageas needed to do. 
Following this, Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. As no 
agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive looked at the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. 
The Cancellation and Curtailment section of the policy says Ageas will pay for certain costs 
if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative or 
any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an expert 
witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of employment 
for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending redundancy at the 
time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire;
5. the policy requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
6. you, or any person you intend to travel with, who is a member of the Armed Forces, 
emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee being ordered to 
return to duty.
This section also says that:
What you are NOT covered for: []
7. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country []
As our investigator has already explained, Mr and Mrs Bs intended travel destination was 
exempt from the FCDO advice against travel on 25 July 2020 when the airline cancelled the 
flights, and on 25 August 2020 when they were due to travel. So, I dont think FCDO advice 
against international travel is relevant in the circumstances of this complaint, or the above 
exclusion that Ageas has relied on.
But cancellation due to an airline cancelling flights isnt an insured event under the 
cancellation section of the policy terms and conditions. That means that the situation Mr and 
Mrs B found themselves in isnt covered under their policy.
For completeness sake, I can see that since July 2020, people arriving at Mr and Mrs Bs 
intended destination from certain countries wouldve been subject to a 10 day quarantine. 
But the UK was exempt from this both when the flights were cancelled, and when Mr and 
Mrs B were due to travel. So, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also looked to see whether Mr and Mrs Bs claim is covered by any other section of the 
policy. But having done so, I dont think the circumstances fall within any of the cover 
provided by the policy.
Overall, Mr and Mrs Bs holiday wasnt cancelled for any of the insured events outlined in the 
policy. That means that I dont think Ageas had done anything wrong by declining their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman