DRN-3550029
The complaint
Mr P (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt properly 
undertake affordability checks before granting these loans. 
What happened
Mr P was advanced five home collected loans between June 2017 and June 2020. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 21/06/2017 06/10/2017 20 £7.50
2 £300.00 13/10/2017 20/04/2018 33 £15.00
3 £800.00 20/04/2018 14/09/2019 33 £40.00
4 £480.00 19/09/2019 11/06/2020 52 £16.80
5 £700.00 29/06/2020 outstanding 34 £35.00
Following Mr Ps complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks before these loans 
were advanced. 
Mr Ps representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator and it was partly upheld. She thought it was 
fair for Morses to have granted loans 1  3. However, she concluded loans 4 and 5 shouldnt 
have been advanced because it was clear that the lending was now harmful to Mr P.  
Mr Ps representative acknowledge receipt of the adjudicators assessment. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary it said:
Mr P had five loans over three years which Morses doesnt consider to be excessive. 
Morses confirmed Mr Ps income from loan 4 through a credit refence agency. 
Mr P had enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. 
Loan 5 did take longer to repay than expected but this was because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Mr P nor his representative have disagreed with the adjudicators findings in relation 
to loans 1  3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to 
make a finding about them. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the 
overall lending relationship between Morses and Mr P.  
Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was reasonable of Morses to advance loans 4 
and 5 to Mr P. 
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loans 4 and 5
Looking at everything Ive been given about these loans, I do think Morses shouldnt have 
approved them. Im satisfied that by these loans, at the minimum Morses checks needed to go further than 
solely relying on Mr Ps income and expenditure as well as information from the credit 
reference agency. 
Given the time in debt, the amount Mr P was borrowing and the fact that it took Mr P more 
than twice as long to repay loan 3 as the contracted term, which to me suggests Mr P was 
likely having financial difficulties as he wasnt in a position to repay his loans in a sustainable 
manner. 
However, it wasnt enough, as for the loan repayments to be pound and pence affordable. 
Morses also had to consider overall pattern of its lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr P had taken out three loans in this chain of lending within 26 
months So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was 
having to borrow further to cover a long term short fall in his living costs. 
Mr P had shown that hed had problems repaying his previous loan. It had taken him 
77 weeks to repay loan 3, when he was contracted to repay it within 33 weeks. I 
think, the fact this had happened on each loan was an indication that he was 
struggling to meet his weekly commitment. 
Mr P was potentially extending his indebtedness with loan 4 to Morses for another 
year, which isnt an insignificant period of time. 
From the first loan, Mr P was generally provided with a new loan shortly after the 
previous loan had been repaid. 
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out three years after Mr Ps first loan. And his final loan was for seven times 
the amount of his first. Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5, and Ive outlined below what Morses 
needs to do in order to put things right for Mr P. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided loans 4 and 5 and Im directing Morses to do the following. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded. 
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal towards the loan. If this results in Mr P having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund the overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E. 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr P.  
E. The overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely from Mr 
Ps credit file. Morses doesnt have to remove loan 5 from Mr Ps credit file until it has 
been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about 
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr P as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman