DRN-3938028
The complaint
Mr R complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options) shouldnt have accepted 
his application to transfer his defined benefit pension into a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) and invest his funds in a Friends Provident International (FPI) bond. He wants 
Options to put him back in the position he wouldve been in had Options not accepted his 
application.
At the time of the relevant events Options was trading as Carey Pensions UK LLP. But I will 
refer to the business as Options throughout this decision.
Background
Ive set out below the parties involved in Mr Rs pension transfer and investment.
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate 
or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
Caledonian
Caledonian was a trading name of a business called MMG Associates, which was registered 
in the British Virgin Islands. Caledonian was not authorised in the UK to carry on regulated 
activities and it does not (and did not at the time of the events subject to complaint here) 
appear on the FCAs Financial Services Register. And there is no evidence it was authorised 
to carry out regulated activities (where there was any relevant legislation) in any other 
jurisdiction.
Friends Provident International
Friends Provident International (FPI) is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a bond (i.e. 
life assurance) wrapper which allows investment in a number of funds with a number of fund 
providers. Mr R invested in a number of investments within a FPI bond.
Business C
Business C is an investment manager. The evidence is that Business C agreed to manage 
or provide oversight of some of the investments taken out by Caledonians customers after 
they had transferred their pensions.
What happened
Mr R had two defined benefit occupational pensions, one of which was from his time working 
in the Armed Forces. He also had a personal pension with Aviva. It was while working 
abroad that he first encountered Caledonian. And he said he met with Caledonian at his 
home in the UK.
Mr R said one of his colleagues had transferred his pension after being promised greater 
gains by Caledonian and said Caledonian was really good. Mr R said he wasnt financially 
aware at the time and wasnt exploring any other options in relation to his pensions. 
Caledonian gave him a business card and telephoned him. Caledonian said it would 
consolidate his pensions and invest the money to make more than Mr R was currently 
making. Mr R said he checked on the internet that Caledonian was a legitimate company, 
but he didnt research the investment he was making because he wouldnt know what to 
look for. He described his understanding of Caledonians role as follows:
they were responsible for informing someone like me of the workings of 
investments and of course the gains/dangers, etc.
Mr R said he understood very little at the time about the investment he was making. He 
said:
I just understood as informed that my pensions would be collated and invested and 
would make more money than where they were. I was told that this was the best 
thing to do for my long-term finances.

I was informed by what I thought was a financial pension specialist that this was the 
best thing to do with my pension.
He said Caledonian organised the transfer out of his existing pensions. Asked what advice 
or reports he received about the transfer and the investment he said: 
the advice I received was vague and lacked technical details. I received nothing 
other than updates stating things would take a while to transfer.
Ive seen the following documents which were signed by Mr R with a typed date of 11 June 
2012:
An urgent memorandum to the Armed Forces Pension Scheme saying Mr R wanted 
to transfer his pension to an Options SIPP.
A letter of authority giving permission for Options to give Caledonian any information 
Caledonian might request about Mr Rs SIPP and the purchase of investments in the 
SIPP. The letter gave an address in Switzerland for Caledonian.
A declaration saying Mr R wanted to transfer from the Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme to an Options SIPP, and saying that: he understood he was forfeiting a 
defined benefit; his pension and death benefits under an Options SIPP would depend 
on investment performance; benefits might be less than those of the Armed Forces 
Pension Scheme; and Options hadnt given advice and would provide an execution-
only service.
Ive also seen the following documents which were signed by Mr R with a handwritten date 
of 12 June 2012:
An Options SIPP application form for direct clients which appears to be partly pre-
populated. The form said Mr R wanted to transfer his pension benefits, worth about £19,000, from his Armed Forces Pension Scheme to an Options SIPP, and invest 
100% of the funds in the FPI investment. Contact details for the Armed Forces 
Pension Scheme and FPI were typed into the form. Information that was specific to 
Mr R was entered by hand. The form said amongst other things that Mr R was a 
direct client who hadnt received advice and that Options hadnt given advice and 
Options wasnt responsible for Mr Rs investment decisions. An address in the UK 
was entered into the form for Mr Rs home address.
A members declaration in respect of his Armed Forces pension which listed Mr C of 
Caledonian as Adviser and was also signed by Mr C in the field designated for the 
Adviser. The declaration said:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
I am fully aware and understand that by giving an instruction to proceed with 
the transfer of my Occupational Scheme Benefits to the Carey Pension 
Scheme I may lose substantial benefits. However, being of sound mind and in 
full possession of the facts I have considered the matter of the transfer and as 
an individual confirm my decision and instruction to both Carey Pensions UK 
LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to proceed with the transfer of the 
Occupational Scheme Benefits.
I am fully aware that in acting on my instructions both Carey Pensions UK 
LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis.
Neither Carey Pensions UK LLP nor Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd have 
provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this transaction.
An Options fee schedule showing fees that would be paid to Options and 
Caledonian.
On 21 June 2012 Caledonian sent the application form to Options with a cover letter giving 
an address in Switzerland for Caledonian. Caledonian said the application and supporting 
documents for Mr R were enclosed. And it invited Options to contact Caledonian in the event 
of any queries. Caledonian included a checklist which indicated that various documents were 
enclosed, including advice.
On 25 June 2012 Options wrote to Mr R at his home address saying it had established his 
SIPP that day.
On 26 June 2012 Options wrote to the Armed Forces Pension Scheme enclosing Mr Rs 
urgent declaration requesting to transfer his pension to Options. Caledonian sent the 
completed discharge forms to Options on 24 July 2012.
On 21 August 2012 Options trustees signed an FPI application form to invest Mr Rs pension 
funds in an FPI bond. Information entered in the form said Caledonian was the Adviser. And 
it said Caledonians address was in Chile and advice was given in Jordan. Caledonian had 
signed the form in the space designated for the adviser on 18 June 2012.
FPI sent Mr Rs policy documents to Options on 31 August 2012.
In January 2013 Caledonian received a transfer value for Mr Rs second defined benefit 
occupational pension, along with instructions from the scheme about how to proceed with a 
transfer. Mr R signed the following further documents with a typed date of 15 February 2013:A declaration saying he wanted to transfer his second defined benefit occupational 
pension to an Options SIPP, and saying that: he understood he was forfeiting a 
defined benefit; his pension and death benefits under an Options SIPP would depend 
on investment performance; benefits might be less than those of the defined benefit 
scheme; and Options hadnt given advice and would provide an execution-only 
service.
On 21 February 2013 Business C produced a Pension transfer report in respect of 
transferring Mr Rs second defined benefit occupational pension to Options. The reports 
introduction said the following:
The purpose of this analysis is to provide information, regarding the possible transfer 
of, on your benefits provided by the [second defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme] to an alternative pension arrangement.
This analysis does not, on its own, show whether or not transferring your benefits is 
advisable, as that also depends on many other factors, such as your attitude to risk 
your personal circumstances and your objectives. It does, however, give an 
indication of the likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits provided by 
your existing scheme with a transfer to an alternative plan.
 This analysis needs to be read in conjunction with the illustrations provided by the 
recommended provider and any recommendations made by your advisor
The report said the transfer value of Mr Rs second defined benefit occupational pension 
was nearly £4,000. It estimated the amount of growth Mr R would need to achieve in the 
investments in his SIPP to match the retirement benefits he could expect from his second 
defined benefit occupational pension.
Mr R signed the following further documents dated 22 February 2013:
A members declaration in respect of his second defined benefit occupational 
pension which listed Mr C of Caledonian as Adviser and was also signed by Mr C in 
the field designated for the Adviser. The declaration said:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
I am fully aware and understand that by giving an instruction to proceed with 
the transfer of my Occupational Scheme Benefits to the Carey Pension 
Scheme I may lose substantial benefits. However, being of sound mind and in 
full possession of the facts I have considered the matter of the transfer and as 
an individual confirm my decision and instruction to both Carey Pensions UK 
LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to proceed with the transfer of the 
Occupational Scheme Benefits.
I am fully aware that in acting on my instructions both Carey Pensions UK 
LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis.
Neither Carey Pensions UK LLP nor Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd have 
provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this transaction.
A letter to Options saying he wanted to transfer his second defined benefit 
occupational pension to an Options SIPP.On 4 March 2013 Caledonian sent Options the application form for Mr Rs second defined 
benefit occupational pension and Aviva pension transfers with a cover letter giving an 
address in Switzerland for Caledonian. Caledonian said the application and supporting 
documents were enclosed. And, as before, it invited Options to contact Caledonian in the 
event of any queries. Caledonian included a checklist which indicated that various 
documents were enclosed, including advice.
On 6 March 2013 Mr R signed transfer forms for each pension, requesting transfers of those 
pensions to Options. 
On 14 March 2013 about £11,000 was transferred to Options from Mr Rs Aviva pension. 
Options emailed Caledonian to say it had received the transfer confirmation from Aviva and 
to ask whether Caledonian wanted Options to wait until Mr Rs second defined benefit 
occupational pension was received before sending the money on to FPI. Options also asked 
Caledonian to arrange an email from Mr R to confirm that the additional transfers were to be 
added to his existing FPI investment. Caledonian confirmed the following day that Options 
should wait before investing the monies from the Aviva pension.
Also on 14 March 2013 Options wrote to Mr R at his home address saying:
Further to our email notification on 11th January 2013 with regards to the 
appointment of [Business C] as your on-going Discretionary Investment Manager 
who will be working alongside your Advisor, Caledonian Associates, I am attaching 
your Investment Report pack received from [Business C].
In April 2013 the monies from Mr Rs second defined benefit occupational pension and his 
Aviva pension were invested with FPI.
In 2018 Mr R transferred his pension out of the Options SIPP on the advice of a financial 
adviser. The amount transferred was about £38,000.
Mr Rs complaint
Mr R said he first became aware of a problem in 2019 when a former colleague told him that 
they shouldnt have transferred out of the Armed Forces Pension Scheme. So, after finding a 
representative to help him, he made a complaint.
In a letter signed by Mr R in September 2020, Mr R complained to Options about its role in 
his pension transfer and investment. In summary, Mr Rs representative said Options 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Rs SIPP application from Caledonian.
The representative said Mr R had no experience in and a very low knowledge of 
investments, and no experience dealing with a financial adviser. He was neither a 
sophisticated nor a wealthy investor. The representative said Mr R made the transfer and 
investment on advice from Caledonian who misled him into believing he would be better off 
by doing so. It said Options shouldve done checks and recognised the risk of consumer 
detriment in the circumstances of Mr Rs introduction by Caledonian, which was an overseas 
business advising Mr R to transfer out of a final salary pension scheme.
The representative said Mr R wouldnt be in the situation he was now in if Options had acted 
properly. And Mr R wanted to be put back in the position he wouldve been in if Options 
hadnt accepted his SIPP application, and to be compensated for the worry and distress hed 
suffered.
Options said it had considered the complaint, but didnt uphold it. In summary, Options said:Mr R was a direct client and had chosen not to appoint a financial adviser. Hed also 
signed a members declaration confirming he was a direct client and hadnt received 
advice.
COBS 11.2.19 in the regulators Handbook obligated Options to carry out Mr Rs 
instructions.
Options provided an execution-only service and made Mr R aware of that in 
documents provided to him.
Options didnt and wasnt permitted to advise clients in relation to the establishment 
of SIPPs, transfers of pensions or the underlying investments held within a SIPP.
Options acted properly in accepting the introduction and it undertook appropriate due 
diligence on Caledonian on a number of occasions. Caledonian agreed to Options 
terms of business and, at the time it accepted Mr Rs business, Options had no 
reason to not accept the introduction. Options wasnt restricted to dealing with 
regulated businesses only.
Caledonian wasnt known to Options as an advice firm and Options wasnt aware that 
Caledonian held itself out as an advice firm.
Caledonians relationship was with Mr R only. It didnt accept instructions from 
Caledonian, and all correspondence was with Mr R direct.
In November 2020 Mr R referred his complaint to this service.
Options told us the complaint was out of time because it had been made more than six years 
after the event complained of and more than three years after Mr R was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of his cause for complaint. Options said Mr R was aware 
from April 2012, when he signed the declarations, that he was losing a secure pension and 
might suffer a loss as a result  and so he was aware more than three years before he 
complained in December 2020 of the facts which would have given cause for complaint.
The relationship between Options and Caledonian
Ive set out above the background to Mr Rs complaint and his dealings with Caledonian and 
Options. But alongside those events its important to understand the underlying relationship 
between Caledonian and Options.
Options said it carried out due diligence checks on Caledonian, and its provided evidence of 
the checks it made.
The relationship between Options and Caledonian began in early 2012. Options said that 
between 27 April 2012 and 20 May 2013 Caledonian made 509 introductions to Options. 
Ive set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions during 
the relationship between Options and Caledonian, which Ive observed from the available 
evidence (including evidence from Mr Rs case file and submissions Options has made to us 
about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, Caledonian).
A business profile was completed which recorded the first meeting between Options and 
Mr C of Caledonian in March 2012. It set out Caledonians proposed business model. It said 
Mr C was preferred adviser for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme. It said the 
profile of Caledonian clients was:30 to 50 year olds
Had been in the armed forces for between 6 to 10 years
Had left the armed forces and wanted to transfer their pension arrangements
They had no expectation of long life expectancy
They were living today so wanted to access funds earlier then they could if their 
pension stayed in the armed forces pension scheme
They were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various 
countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.
They were now earning quite large salaries circa £70k plus
The business profile said clients were referred to Mr C from his Armed Forces pensions 
contact or by other clients, and he was currently putting them into an international Friends 
Provident Bond, the underlying investments were regulated. It said:
[Mr C] himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised them on their armed forces transfers only, he was a qualified accountant and 
was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants.
His company was trading as Caledonian although the holding company was a BVI 
company called MMG Associates 
[Mr C] was looking at volume business in the region of 50 schemes a month.
On 16 March 2012 Mr C signed and dated the Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. 
The form described its purpose as follows:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out.
Under Company Information it was entered that Caledonian had branches in Chile, Peru, 
Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland and had been trading since 1997.
Under Product Information, it was entered that Caledonian dealt with Offshore savings 
plans + investment bonds  Friends Provident International + Generali and that these 
products had been accepted by Options and other SIPP providers, and hadnt been declined 
by any pension scheme operators. 
Under Sales and Marketing Approach, it was entered that Caledonian would obtain clients 
by Referral and the sales process would be: Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit.
A question about the typical commission structure was answered: 7% up front from bond  
0.5% Trail.
Under Training and Information, in response to the question, What training is provided to 
the agents within the Firm? the answer was: Ongoing product training and accompanied 
meetings. And that training was delivered through: Visits to providers directly. In response 
to how the business produced by its agents was monitored, the answer was: Full 
administrative structure  Caledonian, Careys  Compliance. FPI  Compliance.In response to a question about the kind of service it sought from a SIPP provider, the 
answer was: Administration + Compliance.
Under the section headed Legal and Regulatory Information, it was recorded that 
Caledonian didnt work with any FSA regulated company or adviser, wasnt a member of any 
professional or trade body, had no professional indemnity cover in place, and hadnt recently 
been and wasnt currently subject to any FSA supervisory visits, reviews or other regulatory 
action or censure.
In response to the question What measures are in place to ensure the Firm engage legal 
advice on the activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out? the 
answer was: Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where 
regulations apply we are licensed to carry out our activities.
In response to how Caledonian demonstrates it treats its customers fairly, it was said: 
Compliance & Procedures in current alignment with FSA TCF.
Information entered said Caledonians objectives for the coming 12 months were: To 
continue to develop a fully compliant business of PT to HM Forces. And with regards to 
member-directed pension scheme business, Caledonian was looking to achieve a 
Compliant business in a Regulated structure.
On 23 March 2012 Options asked Mr C for a copy of Caledonians latest company accounts 
and a certified copy of each directors/principals passport. Options chased a response to 
this on 3 April 2012. A senior consultant at Caledonian replied on the same day and 
provided a copy of Mr Cs passport (uncertified). About the company accounts she said 
shed speak to Mr C when he returned from a trip. On 4 April 2012 Mr C emailed Options:
my apologies for not having replied before now  I am back tomorrow Thursday 
and will have te [sic] appropriate documents over to you early next week 
On 27 April 2012 Options started to receive introductions from Caledonian. On 1 August 
2012, ahead of a compliance audit, a Team Leader at Options asked Caledonian again for 
the certified passports and annual accounts. In an internal email the Team Leader said shed 
spoken to Mr C and hed be sending an urgent request for the documentation we require.
On 4 September 2012 Mr C and the CEO of Options signed and dated a Non-regulated 
Introducer Agreement Terms of Business document between Options and MMG Associates 
Ltd T/A Caledonian International Associates. Amongst other terms the agreement included 
the following undertaking:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
[the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000] in relation to the SIPP  for the 
avoidance of doubt this includes reference to advice on the selection of The SIPP 
Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, taking benefits and HMRC rules
Options has said Caledonian received the terms of business on 21 March 2012  and so it 
seems there was a delay in Mr C signing and returning the document.
On 1 November 2012 Options did a background check using World Check (a risk 
intelligence tool which allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and 
individuals) on two Caledonian employees, one of whom was Mr C. The check didnt reveal 
any issues.Options has said that in early 2013, it appointed a dedicated in-house compliance officer 
and they enhanced the compliance framework within the firm, compliance monitoring 
programme and risk assessment.
On 7 March 2013 a manager at Options sent an internal email to other Options employees, 
including its CEO, summarising a call Options had held with Mr C. In summary, it said:
Options had noted that, following recent FSA reviews and guidance, SIPP operators 
were being asked to look at the business received from their introducers against their 
expectations of type and profile.
Options had noted that several applications it received recently had moved away 
from the expected profile. And Options asked whether the profile was changing.
Mr C had said that predominantly the members were in the close protection industry 
which as@ 5 years ago they all went into. He said that foreign operatives were now 
coming in in a more organised structure. Some were getting promoted into senior 
positions. Many were previously divers in the military and so going into Diving 
elsewhere.
Options had asked Mr C to put together a note to update Caledonians business 
profile and expectations.
On 20 March 2013 the Options manager followed up the conversation with Mr C by email. 
Options asked again for an update as to the changes in profile, and noted it had received a 
further two applications for individuals outside the expected profile.
Options has also provided an undated document called the Overseas Introducer 
Assessment Proforma. The document listed a number of criteria and labelled its 
assessment as low risk, medium risk or high risk with supporting notes on each. This 
document isnt dated but I think its likely to have been completed in March 2013 as it refers 
to Options recently having seen consumers introduced which fell outside the expected 
profile, which seems to refer to the 7 March 2013 email.  Ive set out below what I consider 
the most relevant sections of this document and the level of risk that was noted.
Heading Notes Risk
Section 1  Company Assessment
Google search and 
FCANo adverse comments Low
Regulatory Cannot find any regulatory information from the 
details heldHigh
Company No UK branch. Cannot see any EEA regulatory 
details  Unknown company establishment time  
cannot find any details from information received. No 
accounts requested? / receivedMainly 
medium
Compliance officer Unknown if have compliance officer or not High
Professional 
qualificationsNo qualifications documented other than meeting 
note from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a Highqualified accountant
Meeting Meeting held at Carey Pensions UK office March 
2012Medium
Section 2  Advice/client profile/investment
Advice Unregulated  No details of how advice given. No 
regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan? 
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if 
true for UK based clients.
It was also noted that the funds for investment within 
the SIPP were to be generated from:
Transfers from Armed Forces Pension occupational 
schemeHigh
Client profile Client Profile: 30-50 years old. Part of armed forces 
6-10 years. Generally still UK residents, some 
abroad.
Now working in security earning c. £70k pa. 
HOWEVER, recently reviewed business outside of 
profile.High
Investment Initially Friends Provident International bond. Now 
using James Brearley. Both FCA regulated.Low
At the end of the Company Assessment section the overall result was recorded as Amber, 
a result described as queries to raise. The wording against this read:
Company details are a mixture of Green and Amber raise with technical review 
committee before proceeding.
The overall result at the end of the Advice/Client Profile/Investment section was recorded 
as Red, a result described as Decline.
On 26 April 2013 an Options Compliance Officer emailed several other Options employees, 
with the title Review of relationship with Caledonian. She said:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure 
our products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on 
recent correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their 
business practices and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them 
and the business they have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to 
discuss. In the meantime we need to determine the answers to the questions below 
to help facilitate our discussions.
The Compliance Officer set out 18 questions and statements about Caledonian and its 
relationship with Options and invited the other employees who received her email to please 
provide answers to the following where you can. On 30 April 2013 another member of the compliance team inserted the answers given (in 
bold) below.
Overview of business
Date relationship commenced: April/May 2012
What is the agreed profile of clients introduced by Caledonian: Ex Armed Forces, 
Approx age 38, working in the Close protection industry (security), earnings of 
Approx £70k
Number of clients introduced: 497 (363 now invested, 134 ongoing) 
Value of investments held: £16m
Nature of investments, i.e. any alternative investments: Friends Provident Int. 
(Funds) or, [Business J] Investment Platform with [Business C] acting as DFM.
Number of complaints from Caledonian introduced clients: None
How many transfers were also accompanied by a TVAS [Transfer Value Analysis]? 
Who has provided the TVAS? 37  Only TVs over £100k (from Armed Forces 
Pension) or any amount no matter how small on other TVs. TVAS provided by 
[Business C]
Overview of Caledonian:
What due diligence was undertaken on Caledonian prior to establishing the 
relationship? Unknown but AML was received.
Location of head office: Geneva, Switzerland
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address 
for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK.
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute  [ID Number given]. [Mr 
C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which 
is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached
How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules? 
Unknown
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrationsDo Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? Caledonian send to 
us the Friends Provident Investment Applications with the Application to set 
up the SIPP. The funds table in the investment App is pre-populated by 
Caledonian. The Member does see a copy of this document - which we send to 
them prior to investing their funds.
What due diligence did we undertake on [Business C]? Unknown
A further reply was made later on 30 April 2013 by the CEO of Options. The CEO wrote:
To add to [Options employee]s information. I attach a business profile which details 
how the relationship emerged with Caledonian which provides background 
information, also the process notes that were agreed at a meeting held in our old MK 
office which was a workshop to present our SIPP proposition and understand their 
business better  In answer to some of [Options employee]s unknowns. 
Where do they meet with clients? Generally abroad depending on where their next 
assignment is, they will also hold meetings in the UK
Are they regulated to give advice in their home jurisdication (sic)? No because they 
are not regulated they are introducers of business
They have confirmed they give advice in Jordan? When they mean advice they are 
talking about consultancy they are not regulated in any jurisdication (sic)
How did we establish their knowledge of UK Pension and SIPP marketplace? By 
meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them output from which is 
attached 
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? I 
am not sure it is our place to comment on this maybe on the information but not on 
advice, if we commented on whether we thought even our regulated advisers were 
providing poor advice I would probably think we would say yes. Think we need to be 
careful what questions we are looking to answer comfortable on the information piece 
but not on the advice piece
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? No they don't, they 
consult with the client on the feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme into a SIPP and their partner to manage the investment is [Business C]
On 10 May 2013 the Options CEO emailed Caledonian requesting further information. The 
email said Options was reviewing its terms of business in light of recent announcements 
from the FCA and our internal compliance reviews. Options said it was keen to continue to 
do business with Caledonian but that it must do so: in a framework that is robust and 
compliant and will satisfy the regulators, Options said, so we must start with ensuring we 
understand each stage of the process, to enable us to develop a robust and compliant 
process for this business moving forward. Options asked Caledonian the following 
questions:
1. Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions.2.Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
3.What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
4.On what basis are you providing illustrations and the reasons for this basis
5.Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
6.Please confirm the profile of your clients
7.Please confirm how you receive introductions to your clients
8.Can you update information about your team their background, expertise in dealing 
with pensions
9.On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, [UK city]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in 
the UK and the nature of the office in [UK city].
Options said that from 1 May 2013 it had implemented changes to its requirements, and that 
Caledonian had to have a UK FCA regulated adviser providing the TVAS and the sign off for 
the suitability of transfers from occupational schemes of any values.
On 15 May 2013 Options sent an internal email which was a summary of a telephone 
conversation with Business C. The summary recorded that Business C confirmed an FCA 
Regulated Adviser would provide TVAS reports on all Caledonian-introduced clients and on 
the back book of business with Caledonian. And that on this understanding Options had 
agreed it would continue to process applications where the TVAS report was currently being 
issued by Business C.
Options says the last introduction made to it by Caledonian was on 20 May 2013.
On 23 May 2013 Options met with Caledonian and Business C. A summary of the meeting 
said:
Mr C said he was a consultant to the Armed Forces and not an adviser in the FCA 
sense.
Caledonians UK office was a postal address only and not a working office.
Mr C met with clients in the UK but initial contact was abroad. It was noted that 
documents completed by Caledonian had said he met them in Jordan. And FPI 
needed a letter about where advice was given.
Caledonians website didnt mention that it would give advice. And its documents said 
no advice was given and clients should take advice from a regulated adviser.
Caledonian said the reason for lots of transfers was because of the market and its 
relationship with providers.The proposal going forward involved an appointed representative of a UK-based IFA 
being the pension specialist of Business C and the UK-based IFA dealing with 
business moving forward.
Options agreed to allow Caledonian a four-week window to put the changes in place.
The question about Caledonian providing a letter stating where advice was being 
given was irrelevant to Options as Caledonian didnt provide advice.
Caledonian said its illustrations were provided for clients to facilitate the business. 
Options queried whether this was advice.
I havent seen evidence that any of these actions was completed. As noted, Options didnt 
accept business from Caledonian after 20 May 2013.
Options has provided a copy of a document headed, Caledonian Relationship Review 
2013. Ive reviewed the document in full, but have only quoted below what I consider to be 
the key part:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were 
raised regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through 
an unregulated entity. 
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
We have insisted that they move to a model that all cases are fully advised by an 
FCA regulated firm/individual, which has been accepted.

Following a meeting in the Milton Keynes office with ourselves [Options staff at the 
meeting] where [Mr C], and [Business C] explained their current process and 
documentation and described their future process, further discussions between 
[initials of various staff members at the businesses] it was decided that they had not 
satisfied us enough with their current processes for us to continue to allow taking on 
new business in the interim without the use of a UK regulated firm or individual who 
was suitably qualified.
[Options Chief Executive] has instructed the team of this decision so from week 
beginning 28th May any new business received will be rejected unless it comes 
through an FCA regulated firm 
It set out a detailed process, by which Caledonian proposed to move to a model where all 
clients would be fully advised by an FCA regulated firm/individual, and it highlighted the 
benefits of this new approach as being:
all schemes are coming in on an advised basis; it brings the process and client into 
the UK regulated process; it brings the clients into the FSCS and FOS protections; 
and ensures all occupational schemes undergo analysis and advice
I havent seen evidence that this approach was enacted  again, as noted, Options accepted 
no business introduced by Caledonian after 20 May 2013.Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint. She said the complaint wasnt out of 
time because it wasnt made more than three years after Mr R was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, of his cause for complaint about Options.
On considering the merits of Mr Rs complaint the Investigator thought the complaint should 
be upheld. She acknowledged that Options as the SIPP operator wasnt responsible for 
assessing the suitability of any advice Mr R may have received. But she said Options was 
responsible for doing due diligence on Caledonian as an introducer of business to Options. 
And the Investigator said Options hadnt done enough and/or hadnt drawn fair and 
reasonable conclusions from what it knew. If it had acted fairly and reasonably, the 
Investigator said, Options wouldve refused to accept Mr Rs application from Caledonian.
The Investigator also said that Section 27 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) provided a further and alternative basis for upholding Mr Rs complaint because the 
contract between Options and Mr R was a result of regulated activities carried on by 
Caledonian without authorisation.
The Investigator set out that Options should put things right by comparing Mr Rs current 
position to the position he wouldve been in had he not transferred from his defined benefit 
pension schemes, and his personal pension with Aviva and paying him compensation. The 
Investigator also said Options should pay Mr R £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its failings.
Mr R accepted the Investigators view. Options didnt respond to it.
Because no agreement could be reached, Mr Rs complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The purpose of this decision is to set out my findings on whats fair and reasonable, and 
explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a point-by-point response to 
every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so, while I have considered all 
the submissions by both parties, Ive focussed here on the points I believe to be key to my 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations 
to deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Relevant considerations
The PrinciplesIn my view the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 and 6 
which say the following:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what it says about the application of the 
Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley 
Burke case upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that 
complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles and good industry 
practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into 
account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. So the Principles 
are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgement.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ 
Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me.
Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adamss case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adamss appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adamss appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that, in the High Court case, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Rs case are very different from those in Adams. There are also significant 
differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in 
Mr Rs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal 
judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Rs complaint, I am considering whether Options ought 
to have identified that the introductions from Caledonian involved a risk of consumer 
detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
Caledonian prior to entering into a contract with Mr R.
On this point I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adamss 
statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding that Options was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mr R on the suitability for him personally of a pension transfer or its 
SIPP or the FPI investment. But I am satisfied that the obligations of Options included 
deciding whether to accept particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept 
introductions of business from particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own 
understanding of its obligations at the relevant time. As noted above, the Options Non-
Regulated Introducer Profile completed at the outset of the relationship between Options and 
Caledonian said:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out.
Sections 27 and 28 of FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant 
to section 27 of FSMA. Section 27 of FSMA provides that an agreement between an 
authorised person and another party, which is otherwise properly made in the course of the 
authorised persons regulated activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is 
made:
in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party) in 
the course of a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the 
general prohibition.
Section 27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
Section 28(3) of FSMA provides that:
If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it 
may allow 
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
The general prohibition is set out in section 19 of FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is 
a) an authorised person; or
b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the general prohibition, and so section 27 of FSMA 
applied. It further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the 
agreement to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by 
section 28(3) of FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers 
from their own folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr 
Adams caused his own losses and misled Carey;
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated 
with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to 
enforce agreements and being required to return money and other property and to 
pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as 
to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending clients 
to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There was thus 
reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer advising on 
investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that: contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it was 
receiving high commission from the investment provider, there were indications that 
the introducer was offering consumers cashback and one of those running the 
introducer was subject to a FCA warning notice.The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons for 
concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least explore 
the position with Mr Adams, but it did not do so.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued the following publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter
The 2009 report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that 
they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA said:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is 
a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and SIPP 
operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for 
unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, 
as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from 
nonregulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and 
retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring 
introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension 
schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators 
should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paidperiodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Rs 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider the 
actions of Options with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They didnt say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the 
Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on 
the circumstances.
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr R. I accept Options wasnt required to advise Mr R, and 
couldnt advise him. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or the scope of, 
the Principles. But theyre evidence of what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with.As noted above, its clear from Options non-regulated introducer profile, that it understood 
and accepted that its obligations meant it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on 
Caledonian.
Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with its own understanding  as the Options 
Compliance Officer noted in an email on 26 April 2013:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure 
our products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable.
And I note in submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF 
(treating customers fairly) is something it had in mind when considering its approach to 
introducer due diligence i.e. the question of whether it should accept business from a 
particular introducer.
All in all Im satisfied that, to meet the appropriate standards of good industry practice and 
the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options shouldve carried out due 
diligence on Caledonian which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory 
obligations at the time. And in my opinion Options shouldve used the knowledge it gained 
from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of business or particular 
investment.
Summary of my decision
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the relationships 
between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives non-exhaustive 
examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory 
obligations, set by the Principles, Options ought to have identified a significant risk of  
consumer detriment arising from the business model Caledonian described to it at the  
outset. And so, Options ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting 
applications from Caledonian.
I acknowledge Options did take some steps  initially and on an ongoing basis  which did 
amount to good practice consistent with its regulatory obligations. But I think, acting fairly  
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, Options had  
reason at the outset  and certainly by the time of Mr Rs application  to have significant  
concerns about the business Caledonian would be introducing. And it ought to have taken  
the sort of action it took in April and May 2013  which effectively ended its relationship with  
Caledonian  before the relationship with Caledonian began.
Acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have:
Been aware  or at least concluded there was a significant risk  at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian, that Caledonian was giving advice on the transfer out of 
consumers existing defined benefit schemes to the SIPP and the investments made 
in the SIPP.
Been aware that Caledonian was arranging the transfer out of consumers existing 
defined benefit schemes to the SIPP and the investment too.
Sought clarification on where these activities were taking place.
Concluded Caledonian was, in at least some instances, carrying out regulated activities in the UK.
Further, Options should have recognised, and promptly reacted to, the following risks of 
consumer detriment:
Caledonians staff did not have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to give 
advice on defined benefit pension transfers.
There was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr R were therefore unable to make fully informed decisions 
about the transfer to the SIPP and the investment made within the SIPP.
The high volume of business being proposed/brought about by Caledonian.
The high level of commission Caledonian was taking.
That Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options.
I think these points  individually and cumulatively  should have led Options, acting fairly 
and reasonably, to have concluded at the outset  and certainly by the time of Mr Rs 
application in May 2013  that it shouldnt accept business from Caledonian. 
And so, Mr Rs application shouldnt have proceeded.
It follows that its fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Because Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint on the basis that Options shouldnt have 
accepted his introduction from Caledonian, its not necessary for me to consider whether or 
not Options shouldve allowed the investment that was made in Mr Rs SIPP. I make no 
findings about the appropriateness of the investment for the Options SIPP which Mr R 
opened.
Ive set out my view in more detail below.
What activities did Caledonian undertake and what should Options have concluded?
Advice
I note Options has said it didnt become aware that Caledonian was giving advice to Options 
clients. This is a surprising assertion, given Options recorded in March 2013, when 
assessing Caledonian, under the heading Advice:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients.
And so, it seems Options understood at this point that advice was being given. To ask 
questions about how and where advice was being given, the conclusion must first have been 
reached that advice was being given. There is nothing to suggest this was a view it had 
recently reached  rather it seems that it was an existing understanding which was being 
flagged as an issue for the first time.When further action on this point was eventually taken by Options a member of its staff said 
on 30 April 2013:
No they [Caledonian] don't [give advice], they consult with the client on the feasibility 
of transferring their Armed Forces Pension Scheme into a SIPP
This seems to be an effort to back-track on the earlier answers given to the questions in the 
26 April 2013 email, which appear to accept Caledonian was giving advice, although much 
else was unknown. But, to my mind, describing Caledonians role as consulting on the 
feasibility of doing something is simply another way of describing an advisory role. It would 
also have been clear to Options that Caledonians role wasnt limited to advice on the 
transfer out of the consumers existing scheme  it was declared on the FPI applications that 
Caledonian was giving advice on the bond too, and so any consulting was not solely limited 
to the transfer out from the existing scheme. This was clearly not viewed by Options as a 
satisfactory answer to this point in any event as its enquiries continued and, on 
10 May 2013, Options asked Caledonian:
Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
This shows Options was clearly of the view at this point that, at the very least, Caledonian 
might be giving advice as there is no other basis on which it could have sought clarification 
from Caledonian as to whether advice was being given.
It seems this was a view Options maintained. As set out above, it later noted:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case
And it ultimately concluded in May 2013 that all business should come to it through a UK IFA 
with permissions to give pension transfer advice  an unusual step to take if it did not remain 
of the view there was at least a risk Caledonian was giving advice. Although Options has 
said it took that step as a wider policy decision and not as a response to concerns about 
Caledonian, the evidence it gave about that wider policy decision suggested that the wider 
policy decision was made in 2014, and was based on reviews and considerations which 
mostly took place after May 2013. The decision as it related to Caledonian appears to be set 
out in a document from May 2013 headed Caledonian Relationship Review 2013.
The above suggests to me that Options knew  or suspected  that advice was being given 
from the outset, but that it took a reactive, piecemeal approach to addressing this obvious 
risk.
Furthermore, from the information available to Options at the outset of its relationship with 
Caledonian, there was a clear identifiable risk that Caledonian was giving advice. 
Caledonian said, at the outset, that it was:
preferred adviser for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme
a consultant to these clients and advised them on their armed forces transfers only
currently putting them into an international Friends Provident BondAnd Caledonians sales process was described as:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
Finally, as mentioned, many of the FPI applications I have seen confirm Caledonian was 
giving advice (often in Jordan  a point Ill turn to below) and Options would have been privy 
to many of these forms from an early stage in its relationship with Caledonian.
I note it was recorded that Caledonian advised on the transfer only but it was also recorded 
that it was selecting the investment vehicle (the FPI bond). And it is also very difficult to see 
how advice on a transfer out did not encompass advice on where to transfer to (i.e. the 
SIPP)  particularly when it was clearly anticipated that all consumers would be transferring 
to an Options SIPP. It is not clear how this could happen without those consumers being 
advised to take this course of action.
Furthermore, the Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit process Caledonian describes is a 
typical advice process involving an initial meeting, information gathering and analysis, and a 
further meeting.
Options should also have been aware that its not usual for pension transfers to happen 
without the consumer receiving advice or a recommendation  and very unusual for this to 
happen at a rate of 50 a month, which Caledonian was proposing. Options shouldve 
concluded that it was simply implausible that such a large volume of consumers were 
deciding to transfer out of their existing schemes, open a SIPP with Options, and make the 
same FPI investments in the SIPP without being advised to do so.
I note the Options terms of business with Caledonian, signed September 2012 (but, Options 
says, in place since March 2012) said:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules
I also note the SIPP application form which was signed and dated by Mr R said:
This Form should be used if you are a client establishing a SIPP without advice. You 
have made this decision independently and are aware of the implications of this 
decision.
And:
As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your sole 
responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions as long as it is 
an accepted investment in the Carey Pension Scheme.
But the Options members declaration included the following:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
And, as already mentioned, the FPI application documents confirmed advice had been 
given.So I dont think the application documents in this case gave Options any basis to conclude 
advice hadnt been given  particularly given what I say above. They present a confused, 
inconsistent, picture. And where the documents expressly said that Mr R had not been 
advised, they said in most instances that Options hadnt advised Mr R, rather than that 
Caledonian hadnt advised Mr R.
Taking account of the available evidence I consider that, in this case, Caledonian did give 
advice to Mr R on the merits of transferring his pensions to the SIPP and investing in the FPI 
bond. It appears more likely than not that Caledonian proactively suggested to Mr R he 
transfer his two defined benefit occupational pensions, and his Aviva personal pension, and 
make the FPI investment. Mr R had no investment experience and no intention of moving his 
pensions before he met Caledonian. He said it was after he heard from Caledonian about 
the advantages of transferring and investing that he decided to do so  he said, I was 
informed by what I thought was a financial pension specialist that this was the best thing to 
do with my pension. Also, Mr R transferred to the same SIPP and made the same 
investment as many other consumers who Caledonian introduced  the SIPP and 
investment that Caledonian had said it was putting its customers into. I dont think Mr R 
wouldve invested his pensions in a SIPP or in FPI of his own volition or without a positive 
recommendation from Caledonian.
So, Im satisfied advice was given to Mr R by Caledonian in this case, and that, from the 
outset of its relationship with Caledonian, Options was (or at the very least ought to have 
been) aware, generally, that Caledonian was offering advice to consumers, or there was a 
significant risk it might be doing so.
Arranging
It is also evident from what Options was told by Caledonian at the outset  and from the 
available evidence in this complaint and others  that Caledonian was heavily involved in the 
arrangement of the transfer out of its customers existing pension scheme to the SIPP and 
the investment of the cash transferred to the SIPP in the FPI bond, including in Mr Rs case. 
Caledonian clearly was not simply introducing Mr R to Options and leaving it to him to 
proceed with the application. Mr R said Caledonian made the arrangements for him. 
Caledonian appears to have partly completed the SIPP application forms for Mr R, and to 
have sent all the necessary documentation to the firms involved. Caledonian held itself out 
as available to answer any queries and was authorised by Mr R to receive any information it 
requested from Options about Mr Rs SIPP and investment. And Ive seen evidence that 
Caledonian sent and received information to bring about the transfer and investment.
I think Options ought to have been aware of this. The extent of Caledonians involvement 
was clear from the application documentation and its involvement in other applications of the 
same nature.
Where were the activities taking place?
I havent seen any evidence that, prior to May 2013, Options established where Caledonian 
was carrying out its activities in relation to each application  including Mr Rs.
As set out above, Caledonian told Options at the outset that They [the consumers] were 
generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various countries such as 
Thailand, Germany, Spain etc. It was also recorded that Caledonian had branches in Chile, 
Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. And, as Options later noted, Caledonian 
also used a UK address.Caledonian also told Options at the outset the Majority of business carried out in 
unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations apply we are licensed to carry out our 
activities.
And, as mentioned, the sales process adopted by Caledonian was set out as Referral  Visit 
 Analysis  Visit. So, it was clear Caledonian was meeting consumers in person. 
The Certificate of Non-Solicitation signed by Caledonian for FPI  to which Options was privy 
 said in each instance (as far as Im aware) The advice was given in Jordan.
Caledonian gave what appears to be conflicting information. But Options ought to have been 
aware, from what was said by Caledonian, that it was possible Caledonian might be dealing 
with a UK resident consumer in the UK, or dealing with a consumer in any one of a number 
of different countries, all of which might have different financial services regulatory regimes 
(or no such regime).
Its fair to say the picture was far from clear  and Options shouldve been aware it was 
unlikely all of the information provided by Caledonian could be correct. Its not, for example, 
clear how the advice in most instances couldve been given in Jordan when, by Caledonians 
own account, it had a number of offices around the world (none of which were in Jordan), it 
was dealing with consumers who were generally still resident in UK or living abroad in 
various countries and it said elsewhere that it was carrying out business in various 
jurisdictions.
Options did not however check any of this at the outset. It was therefore in no position to 
know what, if any, regulatory regimes applied, and whether Caledonian required any 
authorisations to conduct the activities it did. Caledonian itself appears to have suggested it 
needed licences in some jurisdictions, but I have seen no evidence of it having given details 
of any such licences.
I think Options shouldve been particularly concerned  given that, as mentioned, 
Caledonian told Options the consumers it dealt with were generally still resident in UK - 
about whether advice was being given (or any other regulated activity carried on) in the UK 
as Caledonian was not authorised by the FSA nor, later, the FCA. There was reason, as Ive 
explained, to think Caledonian might be breaching the general prohibition against persons 
carrying on a regulated activity in the UK without authorisation. And this should have, in my 
view, led Options to conclude that it should not enter into (or continue with) a relationship 
with Caledonian at all, and therefore not accept any applications, including Mr Rs.
Despite this, Ive seen no evidence to show Options identified this risk until March 2013 
when, as set out above, it was noted:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients.
Then no further action appears to have been taken until 26 April 2013 when, in a further 
internal email exchange at Options, the following questions were asked, and answers were 
received on 30 April 2013 (the below, in bold, are the first set of answers provided on this 
date):
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address 
for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK.Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown. 
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute  [ID Number provided]. 
[Mr C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which 
is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached
Despite the uncertainty it was not until 10 May 2013 when Options finally challenged 
Caledonian on this point (amongst others):
Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions 
What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, [UK city]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in 
the UK and the nature of the office in [UK city].
Given what I say above, acting fairly and reasonably, Options shouldve made these 
enquiries at the outset. And as set out in the background, these enquiries (along with the 
other points of query put to Caledonian and then discussed with it) led to Options quickly 
concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless they came 
through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction which it 
seems had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. I think it fair to 
say that Options wouldve reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the outset 
of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so, to act fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
In Mr Rs case Im satisfied Caledonian carried on the activities in the UK. Mr Rs application 
documents indicate that he lived in the UK at the time of his SIPP application. Mr R told us 
he met with Caledonian at his home in the UK. Had Options sought clarification from Mr R, 
which wouldve been a reasonable course of action in the circumstances, I think Mr R would 
likely have confirmed that was the case. And, for all the reasons Ive mentioned, Options 
should in any event have concluded before it received Mr Rs application that it was possible 
Caledonian was carrying out activities in the UK.
Regulated activities in the UKUnder Article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in 
his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy,  
sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a 
specified kind of activity
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate.
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security.
At least some if not all of the investments made within the investment portfolio managed by 
Business C were also securities or relevant investments.
As set out above, Im satisfied Caledonian gave advice and made arrangements. The 
activities it undertook clearly meet the above definitions. The arrangements it made brought 
about the transactions (the transfer out of Mr Rs existing pension into the SIPP, the opening 
of the investment portfolio within the SIPP and the making of investments within it). The 
arrangements had that direct effect. And advice was given on the merits of transferring out of 
Mr Rs existing scheme to the SIPP in order to make the investment  Mr R said Caledonian 
told him hed be better off transferring to invest his funds.
So Im satisfied the activities undertaken by Caledonian in the UK in this case were 
regulated activities. Caledonian therefore carried out regulated activities without 
authorisation.Pausing here for a moment, as I note above when summarising my findings, these points 
about the activities Caledonian was undertaking, where it was undertaking them, and its 
authorisation to undertake them, are ones Options shouldve considered individually and 
cumulatively. And, to be clear, I think the fact Caledonian was carrying out regulated 
activities without authorisation was enough reason, in itself, for Options to have concluded 
that it shouldnt accept applications from Caledonian.
This was a significant red flag. The fact Caledonian was carrying out regulated activities 
without authorisation calls into question its integrity, motivation and competency. I think the 
only fair and reasonable conclusion Options could reach in these circumstances was that it 
should not accept business from Caledonian. And I think this alone is sufficient reason to 
conclude it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Rs complaint. But I have nonetheless gone 
on to consider the further risks of consumer detriment I have summarised above.
Caledonians expertise
Caledonians proposed business model, as documented at Options first meeting with its 
representative, involved former members of the Armed Forces who, it said, worked in 
security related jobs in dangerous areas. The business model was not one involving, say, 
former financial advisers or other finance professionals.
There was therefore no reason to think the typical client Caledonian proposed to introduce to 
Options had a good understanding of pensions or was in a position to work out for 
themselves if a pension transfer was in their best interests. Theyd be reliant on 
Caledonians advice.
The introductions involved transfers out of a defined benefit pension scheme into a UK SIPP 
for investment in several investments within an FPI bond. The transfer of defined benefit 
pensions are usually not in customers best interests, are complex and present a variety of 
consequences and matters which the ordinary individual would be hard pressed to 
understand without professional financial advice. Those giving such advice in the UK are 
required by the FCA to pass specialist exams, reflecting the risks and complexities involved. 
Options, as a provider of SIPPs, would or ought to have been aware of this.
Not only did Caledonians advisers not have the qualifications required by the FCA (or FSA 
as it then was) to give advice on pension transfers, but theres also no evidence they had 
any relevant qualifications. The only qualification of any kind which was mentioned was that 
Mr C of Caledonian was a qualified accountant.
Ive seen no evidence to show Options noted this obvious risk until March 2013 when it 
reviewed its relationship with Caledonian and Professional Qualification was assessed as 
high risk. The reason for this assessment was No qualifications documented other than 
meeting note from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified accountant and 
member of Chartered Institute of Accountants.
And, despite this high risk flag, Ive seen no evidence Options took any action until 26 April 
2013 when it asked How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK 
pension rules? The answer to this was initially recorded on 30 April as unknown. The later 
answer on 30 April was, By meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them 
output from which is attached. But I do not think this is enough to show Options had 
sufficiently addressed this risk  it does nothing to show Caledonian's staff had adequate 
qualifications or capabilities.
Again, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) was a point which led to 
Options concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction 
which had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. And I think it fair 
to say Options wouldve reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the outset of 
its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly shouldve done so to meet its regulatory 
obligations and standards of good practice.
The transfer process
As mentioned above, a defined benefit transfer is a complex transaction. It also involves 
many risks, and potentially the loss of significant guaranteed benefits. For this reason, 
advice on such transactions is tightly regulated in the UK and there are standards of good 
practice that those giving the advice are expected to follow. This means several steps need 
to be taken as part of the advice process and documentation such as fact-finds, suitability 
reports, transfer analysis reports (TVAS), and illustrations generally feature in the advice 
process. The purpose is to ensure any advice given takes into account all relevant factors, is 
suitable, and the recipient of the advice is in a fully informed position, where they understand 
the benefits they are giving up and the risks associated with the transfer.
In this case Mr R was given a TVAS in relation to his second defined benefit occupational 
pension transfer. The document appears to have been prepared by Mr P of business C in 
February 2013. And it seems that Options itself arrived at the conclusion by May 2013 that 
this was not sufficient. On 15 May 2013 Options summarised a telephone conversation with 
Mr P in which they agreed that, moving forwards, an FCA Regulated Adviser would be 
providing the TVAS reports on all Caledonian introduced clients. I think this change was 
proposed in acknowledgement of the risks to consumers posed by the existing process.
The TVAS said it was to be used in conjunction with other information, such as consideration 
of Mr Rs risk appetite. Ive seen no evidence that such factors were considered or discussed 
with Mr R. Ive also seen no evidence that a TVAS was provided for Mr Rs Armed Forces 
Pension Scheme pension or his personal pension with Aviva.
Also, the TVAS was produced quite late in Mr Rs relationship with Caledonian  it post-
dates his signing of a declaration saying he wanted to transfer his second defined benefit 
occupational pension. So, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Mr R made the 
decision to transfer this pension with the benefit of the TVAS; he made his decision based 
on the advice hed had from Caledonian.
Ive seen no evidence to show Caledonian followed an adequate process. In my opinion it 
wouldve been fair and reasonable for Options to have identified this as a clear risk of 
consumer detriment  particularly given that Caledonians starting point appears to have 
been that the consumers it dealt with would be transferring out of the defined benefit scheme 
(i.e. it seems to have taken the view a transfer was suitable for all).
Had Options taken steps to ascertain whether a reasonable process was in place it wouldve 
become aware no such process was in place, and consumers were not therefore fully 
informed before agreeing to make the transfer to the SIPP and the associated FPI bond 
investments.
The reference by Options to Illustrations in the list of questions in the 26 April 2013 email 
and the initial answers to those questions appears to be an acknowledgement of this risk:
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information?
Yes due to illustrationsAgain, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) appears to be a point 
which led to Options concluding it shouldnt accept further applications from Caledonian 
except through a UK IFA with permission to give pension transfer advice  a restriction 
which had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. And I think it fair 
to say Options wouldve reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the outset of 
its relationship with Caledonian. And it shouldve done so, on a fair and reasonable basis to 
meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
Volume of business
At the outset of the relationship between Options and Caledonian, Options was told 
Caledonian would introduce about 50 applications a month (and I note a similar volume was 
introduced, once the relationship began).
I think on a fair and reasonable basis, Options shouldve been concerned that Caledonian 
intended to (and did) make such a high volume of introductions, relating only to occupational 
pension schemes (with some customers, as is the case here, also transferring personal 
pension plans). In my view this was a further reason for Options to conclude there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment  particularly when considered alongside the other 
points Ive set out here.
Firstly, its not clear how Caledonian would be, or was, bringing about such a high volume of 
applications without giving advice. It was simply implausible it could bring about this number 
of applications without influencing consumers actions through a positive recommendation.
Options also ought to have considered Caledonians competence to deal with this volume of 
transfers  theres no evidence to show it had the significant resources this would require.
Further, Options shouldve been aware of the very low likelihood that the transfers would all 
be suitable. At the outset of the relationship between Options and Caledonian (and at the 
time of Mr Rs application) COBS 19.1.6G said:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt out will not be suitable (my emphasis). A 
firm should only then consider a transfer or opt out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence that the transfer or opt out is in the clients 
best interest.
I accept this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser when determining 
suitability of a pension transfer but Id expect Options, as a pensions provider, to have been 
aware of this and taken account of it.
Finally, Options had cause to question the motivations of Caledonian, if it were bringing 
about such a high volume of applications. There was a clear risk that Caledonian was putting 
its own interests above those of Mr R.
Commission
I also think the level of commission that was being paid to Caledonian shouldve given 
Options cause for concern.
It appears Caledonian was typically taking around 7% of the transfer amount in commission, 
and Options was told this was the case at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. As 
noted earlier in my findings, theres no evidence to show Caledonian carried out any of the usual work associated with a defined benefit transfer that would justify such a fee. Nor have I 
seen any other evidence to show there was any justification for such a high level of 
commission in the circumstances. I think this level of commission ought to have been 
another cause for Options to be concerned that Caledonian was putting its own interests 
ahead of the interests of consumers, including Mr R. And of course it was further reason to 
consider Caledonian might be giving advice, as commission at this level wouldve been very 
likely to motivate it to encourage consumers to proceed, through a positive recommendation.
Overall, when considered alongside the high volumes of near identical introductions of 
business being made by Caledonian I think this level of commission raises questions about 
the motives and role of Caledonian.
Caledonians Accounts
I note that Options made repeated requests for Caledonian's accounts. It sent several emails 
to Caledonian between March and August 2012. Options also explained in its email of 
23 March 2012 that, to comply with its own compliance procedures, it needed the accounts.
Nevertheless, by 27 April 2012 Options had started accepting introductions from Caledonian 
having not received the accounts  seemingly in breach of its own procedures. Acting fairly 
and reasonably, Options shouldve met its own standards and shouldve checked 
Caledonians accounts at the outset before accepting any business from it. And, based on 
Caledonians conduct, it seems very unlikely accounts would ever have been forthcoming.
Caledonians reluctance to provide basic information should also have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with Caledonian. This again calls into question the competence and motivations 
of Caledonian and it also calls into question the ability of Caledonian to organise its affairs. It 
also meant Options was missing information which might be critical to the decision about 
whether to enter into business with Caledonian, such as, for example, information about the 
nature, volume and location of Caledonians business, and its resources to carry on that 
business.
It is notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Rs SIPP when it was still waiting for this 
information from Caledonian.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances its fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on Caledonian and draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what it 
discovered, that it shouldnt accept business from Caledonian, including Mr Rs application. I 
therefore conclude that its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say Options shouldnt 
have accepted Mr Rs application from Caledonian.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Rs instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply shouldve refused to accept Mr Rs 
application. So, things shouldnt have got beyond that. However, for completeness, Ive 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Options to proceed with Mr Rs 
application.
I acknowledge Mr R was asked to sign a members declaration. I note this document gives 
warnings about the loss of benefits that would result in the transfer to the SIPP. And the indemnities sought to confirm that Mr R wouldnt hold Options responsible for any losses 
resulting from the investments. However, I dont think this document demonstrates Options 
acted fairly and reasonably by proceeding with Mr Rs instructions.
Asking Mr R to sign a declaration absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to 
have known that Mr Rs dealings with Caledonian were putting him at significant risk was not 
the fair and reasonable thing to do. I also note that the declaration was based on Mr R 
having received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian International where, for the 
reasons Ive given, Options ought to have been aware Caledonian didnt have the 
competency to give such advice and there were questions about its motivations and 
integrity.
Asking Mr R to sign declarations was not an effective way for Options to meet its regulatory 
obligations, given the concerns Options ought to have identified about his introduction. So, it 
was not fair and reasonable to proceed, on the basis of these. I make this point only for 
completeness  the primary point is Mr R should simply not have been able to proceed, as 
his application should simply not have been accepted.
Furthermore, as set out above (and I detail below), I am satisfied section 27 of FSMA offers 
a further and alternative basis on which it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr Rs 
complaint should be upheld.
Section 27 and section 28 of FSMA
I have set out the key sections of section 27 and section 28 above and have considered 
them carefully, in full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether 
section 27 applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under section 28, as 
follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the general 
prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its actions that contravened the general prohibition, and
4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Test 1 is clearly satisfied here  Caledonian was an unauthorised third party. Test 2 is also 
satisfied  for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied Caledonian carried out 
activities in breach of the general prohibition  and any one regulated activity is sufficient for 
these purposes so this test would be met if Caledonian had only undertaken arranging 
(which, for the reasons I have set out, I do not think is the case). Test 3 is satisfied too  the 
SIPP was opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements made, by 
Caledonian. That brings me to the final test, 4. Having carefully considered this, I am 
satisfied a court would not conclude it is just and equitable for the agreement between Mr R 
and Options to be enforced in any event. I think very similar reasons to those mentioned by 
the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so 
onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce 
agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay 
compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition.
For all the reasons set out above, Options should have concluded Caledonian was 
giving advice or have suspected it was (and it seems it did belatedly draw this 
conclusion); and giving advice to consumers who were not necessarily financially 
sophisticated.
As set out above, Options was aware, or ought to have been aware that:
oCaledonians staff didnt have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to 
give advice on defined benefit pension transfers.
oThere was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed 
and consumers such as Mr R were therefore unable to make a fully informed 
decision about the transfer to the SIPP and investment.
oCaledonian proposed/brought a high volume of business.
oCaledonian took a high level of commission, which it may not have disclosed.
oCaledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options.
The investment did not proceed until long after all these things were known to 
Options and so it was open to it to decline the investment, or at least explore the 
position with the consumer.
I have therefore gone on to consider the question of fair compensation.
Fair compensation
Ive considered whether Mr R wouldve transferred his three pensions, either through 
Options or another provider, and would therefore have suffered the same loss as he did, 
even if Options had rejected his application.
Ive seen no evidence to show Mr R wouldve proceeded if Options had rejected his 
application. Mr R had no investment experience. He wasnt financially aware and wasnt 
exploring any options in relation to his pensions prior to meeting Caledonian. So, I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to say Mr R was sufficiently determined to make the transfers and 
investment that he wouldve done so even if Options had refused to facilitate them.
I have not, in any event, seen any evidence that any other SIPP operator dealt with 
Caledonian. And any operator acting fairly and reasonably shouldve reached the conclusion 
that it shouldnt deal with Caledonian. I dont think itd be fair to say Mr R shouldnt be 
compensated based on speculation that another SIPP operator might have made the same 
mistakes as Options.For similar reasons, Im not persuaded Mr R shouldnt be compensated by Options, or his 
compensation should be reduced, because I havent made the finding that the FPI bond 
investment, in itself, was not something Options should have accepted. Or because the 
benefits from Mr Rs existing pensions were lost once the transfer requests were made. If 
Options had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, the application wouldnt have proceeded at all. So, no transfer requests or FPI bond 
investment would have been made.
So, Im satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr R suffering a loss to his pensions. And my 
aim is therefore to return Mr R to the pension position he would now be in but for Options 
failings.
When considering this Ive taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment 
in Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with 
restitution/compensation. But ultimately, its for me to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Putting things right
I consider that Options failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations and didnt put a 
stop to the transactions that are the subject of this complaint. My aim in awarding fair 
compensation is to put Mr R back into the position he would likely have been in had it not 
been for Options failings. Had Options acted appropriately, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr R wouldve remained a member of the pension schemes he transferred into the 
Options SIPP.
Mr R transferred monies from a number of different pension schemes into the SIPP, 
including monies from both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes. To put things 
right Options will need to undertake different types of loss calculations, one in relation to the 
monies that originated from defined benefit schemes and another in relation to monies that 
originated from defined contribution schemes. As part of doing this Options will need to 
calculate the portion of Mr Rs SIPP that was attributable to each of the respective 
transfers/switches and apply them to the relevant calculations.
In light of the above, Options should:
Undertake loss calculations as set out below in respect of each of the schemes from 
which monies were transferred into the SIPP and pay any redress owing in line with 
the steps set out below. 
If Mr R has paid any fees or charges from funds outside of his pension 
arrangements, Options should also refund these to Mr R. Interest at a rate of 
8% simple per year from date of payment to date of refund should be added 
to this.
Pay to Mr R £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused by Options failings.
Ive set out how Options  should  go about  calculating  compensation  in more  detail  below.  Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the transfer in relation to monies 
originating from defined benefit schemes
Options must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out 
in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Options should:
always calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Options offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Options may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the transfer in relation to monies 
originating from defined contribution schemes
Options should take the following steps:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider (Aviva). If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
The actual value means the actual amount paid from the investment, which was 
attributable to the portion of the monies transferred into the SIPP from Aviva, when Mr R transferred out and closed his Options SIPP in 2018 (the end date).
The notional value is the value of Mr R's investment had it remained with the 
previous provider until the end date (May 2018  when I understand that Mr R 
transferred the money in his Options SIPP to another provider). Options should 
request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Options totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Options will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr R's investment instead, using this benchmark: The 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index). The adjustments above also 
apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used 
instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Options should also add interest at 8% simple per year on any loss from the date the 
SIPP ceased to be held (May 2018) to the date of settlement the compensation 
payable.
If there is a loss, Options should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Options is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75%.
If Mr R has paid any fees or charges from funds outside of his pension arrangements, 
Options should also refund these to Mr R. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from date 
of payment to date of refund should be added to this.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Options deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Options should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr R £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their failure to act fairly and 
reasonably
Mr R transferred his pensions away from valuable defined benefits pensions and a personal 
pension to a SIPP. And he suffered the loss of valuable benefits.
I think its fair to say this would have caused Mr R some distress and inconvenience. He will 
clearly have been worried that his retirement provision will have been reduced. So, I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.
Reassignment of rights
If Options believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free to 
pursue those other parties. So, compensation payable to Mr R can be contingent on the 
assignment by him to Options of any rights of action he may have against other parties in 
relation to his transfer to the SIPP and the investments. The assignment should be given in 
terms that ensure any amount recovered by Options up to the balance due to Mr R is paid to 
him. Options should only benefit from the assignment once Mr R has been fully 
compensated for his loss (to be clear, this includes any loss thats in excess of our award 
limit). Options should cover the reasonable cost of drawing up, and Mr Rs taking advice on 
and approving, any assignment required.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I do not know what award the above calculation might produce. So, whilst I acknowledge 
that the value of Mr Rs original investment was within our award limit, for completeness I 
have included information below about what ought to happen if fair compensation amounted 
to more than our award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as shown above. Its my final decision that I require Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP to pay Mr R the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 (including the £500 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience Options 
actions caused).
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend Options pays Mr R the balance. This recommendation is not 
part of my determination or award. Options doesnt have to do what I recommend.
Its unlikely that Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance after the 
award has been paid. Mr R may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman