DRN-2960235
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the poor service he received from AXA Insurance Plc. Mr A 
found a fault with a replacement part on his car from a previous repair. AXAs approved 
repairer had replaced the part when Mr A made a theft claim under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
The background is well known to both parties and are agreed. So Ive summarised them as 
follows:
AXAs approved repairer replaced a stolen catalytic convertor on Mr As car 
following a theft claim in December 2018.
In August 2020 Mr A reported a fault with the part. AXAs service to Mr A 
between August and October 2020 was poor. It failed to engage or support him 
with the issue. AXA asked him to contact the approved repairer, but it was no 
longer trading. 
After AXA incorrectly rejected his claim due to the part being out of warranty, Mr 
A asked a manufacturer dealership to replace the part at his own cost. The 
dealership confirmed the replacement part fitted by the approved repairer was 
second hand and faulty. 
In October 2020 AXA agreed to reimburse Mr A for the full costs of the 
replacement part. For the poor service it provided it paid Mr A £100 
compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He explained why he felt the 
compensation AXA had paid didnt reflect the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Our investigator thought AXA hadnt done enough to put things right for Mr A. Mr A had 
retained the second hand part from the dealership garage when they replaced it so that he 
could prove his claim. The investigator thought AXA should arrange for its disposal for Mr A. 
And he thought AXA should increase the compensation amount from £100 to a total of £250.
AXA agreed to increase the compensation award. It said it would contact an approved 
repairer to see if they could arrange collection of the part from Mr A. Since June 2021 weve 
asked AXA to provide an update on the collection of the part from Mr A, but it hasnt replied. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings. He says £250 isnt enough to reflect the hours 
he spent in phone calls and in trying to get the matter resolved  as well as the stress and 
inconvenience of having to drive a car with a damaged part. 
Mr A believes the only motivation for AXA to do the right thing is for us to penalise it 
financially. Hes very upset about the lack of update from AXA in arranging the collection of 
the replaced part. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that AXAs handling of Mr As request for assistance when he discovered 
a fault with the replacement part was very poor. I think AXA acted unreasonably and caused 
Mr A unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
I think Mr A did all he could to mitigate matters  and Ive no doubt that having to pay a 
considerable sum for a replacement part without the support of AXA only made things worse 
at an already difficult time. Its clear that AXA failed to properly deal with his request, 
provided incorrect information about the protection he had for repairs and incorrectly rejected 
his claim. Mr A initiated most of the contact between him and AXA for updates. I understand 
Mr A lives with a respiratory condition and cares for his elderly mother and so needed a 
reliable car as he was unable to use public transport as an alternative during the pandemic. 
So Im aware that Mr A used his car between August and October 2020 when he paid for the 
part to be replaced. 
I understand Mr A feels the level of compensation is trivial and disproportionate in his case. 
Our role isnt to punish or fine a business. The Financial Conduct Authority is responsible for 
the regulation of AXA. Our role is to look at complaints on a case by case basis and decide if 
a business has acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
The compensation amounts which we award are modest  and are to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused when a business doesnt act reasonably. I think AXA has done the 
right thing by reimbursing Mr A for the replacement part. But I dont think the compensation it 
paid of £100 is enough. I think £250 compensation is fair to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. This in line with awards which we give in similar cases.
Mr A has gone to the trouble of keeping the catalytic convertor which the approved repairer 
fitted as a new part  so that he could prove to AXA that this wasnt the case. I think it only 
fair and reasonable that AXA promptly arrange for the collection and disposal of the part 
from Mr A. I think AXA - or an approved repairer on its behalf  should contact Mr A within 
28 days of his acceptance of my decision to make such arrangements. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance Plc to do the following:
Contact Mr A within 28 days of his acceptance of my decision to arrange for 
collection and disposal of the catalytic convertor fitted by AXAs approved 
repairer. 
Pay Mr A a further £150 compensation in addition to the £100 its already paid 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman