DRN-3109784
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage that a limited company  C  applied for 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Miss C  who is a director of C, and acting on its behalf in 
bringing this complaint  says that Barclays unreasonably delayed the mortgage application, 
changed the underlying terms on which it was willing to lend and didnt keep her informed.
Any reference to Miss C in this decision should be taken to mean her acting in her capacity 
as a director of C, both in applying for the mortgage and in bringing this complaint. To be 
clear, Miss C has no entitlement to complain about this application personally as it was the 
limited company C that was Barclays potential customer.
What happened
C applied for a BTL mortgage with Barclays to buy a new property. I understand the 
remainder of the funds to complete the purchase were coming from the remortgage of 
another BTL property that Miss C owned personally. This was to be the first property 
transaction undertaken by the newly incorporated limited company.
The proposal was first discussed with Barclays on 25 August 2020. The Barclays staff 
member  who Ill refer to as Mr J  emailed some information that day, giving indicative five-
year and ten-year fixed interest rates. The email also said that based on the rental income, 
the maximum loan Barclays would be seeking to fund would be £130,000.
Miss C says that she tried to contact Mr J the same day to proceed but she didnt reply to 
her email or pick up the phone so, as he was on annual leave the next day (which she hadnt 
been told about) she contacted Mr Js manager and, upon speaking to another staff 
member, confirmed she wanted to proceed with a ten-year fixed rate.
There was some correspondence back and forth, and then on 8 September Mr J said that 
the maximum loan amount would now be £120,000 and Barclays was only looking to agree 
a five-year fixed rate.
Again, there was some back and forth between Miss C and Mr J, and Mr J and Barclays 
credit team as Miss C wanted a ten-year fixed rate, rather than a five-year fixed rate. Then 
on 22 September Mr Js manager called Miss C to say that Barclays was now willing to 
proceed with the ten-year fixed rate.
As this was a business transaction and C had no existing relationship with Barclays, 
Barclays required a business bank account to be opened by C. Mr J provided Miss C with 
the forms for that on 25 September and on 30 September Mr J confirmed receipt of those.
Over the next few weeks Miss C was chasing things up every few days. Unfortunately 
Barclays had a backlog in its business banking department that meant the new account 
couldnt be opened until the start of November.
Barclays instructed the valuation on 17 November, and then issued the facility letter to C on 
23 November (pending a successful valuation report). 
Miss C emailed Barclays when she received the facility letter to raise a complaint, saying 
that the terms in the facility letter werent what had been agreed to. In a call the following day 
Miss C said the interest rate and loan amount werent as agreed. She also said she hadnt 
been told about the valuation fee originally. As a resolution she wanted Barclays to change 
the interest rate, compensate her for the delays, and waive the valuation fee. 
As Miss C wasnt happy to wait eight-weeks for the resolution of her complaint, she said she 
wanted the business account to be closed as she wouldnt be proceeding with Barclays.
Barclays issued its final response to the complaint on 23 February 2021. It acknowledged 
that Mr J could have provided a better service in respect of communicating the timescales 
and the process. As a result it said it had refunded the valuation fee, plus additional account 
charges, totalling just under £820, and said the account would be closed. It also paid £100 
compensation into Miss Cs personal account. However, it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong in relation to the actual application, saying the initial information was just an idea of 
what may be achievable, and was subject to change until a formal offer is issued.
Our investigator looked at things. He said, in summary:
Miss C wasnt eligible to complain personally so we couldnt consider how things had 
affected her, we could only consider the impact on the limited company C. 
The normal timescales were between eight and twelve weeks and the facility letter 
was issued just over twelve weeks after the initial conversation. He felt that was a 
reasonable timeframe as this was a BTL mortgage in a limited companys name that 
had no pre-existing relationship with Barclays. 
The original correspondence didnt constitute a promise from Barclays to lend on 
particular terms.
Whilst there may have been some delays in Mr J responding at times, these mostly 
were only a few days.
He needs to be mindful that this took place during the pandemic and was a 
constantly evolving situation.
Barclays had refunded the valuation fee and paid £100 compensation which he 
considered to be fair.
Miss C didnt agree, she said:
Barclays didnt tell her it would be eight to twelve weeks, instead she was being told 
that she would get papers by the end of next week, or shed get a response by the 
end of the day, but these never happened.
If she been told the timescales she could have based critical business decisions on 
that, and managed expectations. She also could have applied for a mortgage 
elsewhere much sooner.
The figures were misleading and significantly different. She was under the 
impression a ten-year fixed interest rate of 2.94% had been agreed, but The final 
interest they provided was 3.530% (and of the 3.530, 3.070 is not fixed!).
Mr J said he felt there was no reason why Barclays couldnt give her what shed 
asked for, which led her on.Our investigator considered the complaint again but his view didnt change. He said:
He couldnt see anywhere that Barclays had promised the application would be 
completed by a certain date, or that the information it provided at the outset wasnt 
dependent on an application being made.
Miss C was told the figures were only an indication.
Miss C has acknowledged she was told it could take between 4 and 8 weeks, and 
whilst the true timeframe was between eight and twelve weeks, most of the delays 
were justifiable in the context of the pandemic.
Barclays refunded the valuation fee which we wouldnt have told it to do as it was 
Miss Cs choice to cancel the application.
On 8 September Barclays said the interest rate margin would be 2.69% and the 
facility letter had it as 3.07%, which whilst higher wasnt significantly higher.
Miss C didnt agree, saying:
I think you misread how much the fixed interest rate increased by and the impact 
that would have over a 10 year fixed period.
(In your email below you have not taken into account the interest rate I 
notified/reminded you of in my previous email.)
She asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below. 
Both sides have provided a timeline of this application, with copies of the emails that were 
sent.
Miss C says she wasnt told that it would take between eight and twelve weeks. But I cant 
see that Barclays promised her it would be done sooner than that. Miss C has said that at 
the end of September she was told by a different Barclays staff member that the end to end 
process is usually four to eight weeks, but that it had already been over five weeks already 
at that point.
Whilst I understand why Miss C sees the timescales that way, I cant agree the end of 
August can be used as the starting point. Thats because Barclays wasnt willing to proceed 
with Miss Cs original proposal of borrowing £130,000 with a ten-year fixed interest rate. This 
led to a month being lost where different interest rate options were put forward to Miss C and 
her not agreeing to them. I can see from Barclays internal notes that things were being 
actively progressed and considered in that time and Im satisfied there were no 
unreasonable delays.
This application was from a newly set up limited company; Companies House show it was 
only incorporated a month before the initial enquiry. Miss C also had no existing business 
relationship with Barclays. Miss C seemed to be a relatively inexperienced BTL investor and 
was funding the purchase by way of remortgaging her existing BTL property to fund the 
deposit of this new purchase. Barclays had  understandable  concerns about the proposition, and Miss Cs (and the newly formed limited companys) ability to maintain things 
if the properties had void periods.
It was only on 21 September that an agreement could be reached that the proposal could be 
taken forward on a ten-year fixed rate on an interest-only basis. So that is the point Im 
considering as the starting point as this is when this proposal could be taken forward. 
Alternatively Barclays was ready to proceed with the proposal on 8 September if it was 
instead on a five-year fixed rate.
In addition there was another issue in that period which led to a delay outside of Barclays 
control. As C didnt have an existing business relationship with Barclays, a new business 
bank account had to be opened. Whilst that normally would only take a couple of weeks, 
unfortunately Cs application came at a time Barclays had an unprecedented amount of 
applications  and many of those other applications were more urgent than Cs.
Ill explain. In May 2020 the Government launched the Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBLS) 
as part of its support in the pandemic. As part of that scheme any business that wanted to 
apply needed to have a business bank account, they couldnt trade through a personally 
held bank account. This meant many business that wanted to apply for the BBLS needed to 
open a business bank account. Many banks werent taking on new business customers at 
the time, which led to Barclays receiving an unprecedented amount of applications for new 
business accounts to be opened. That would then follow through into a large number of 
business customers requiring lending  just to stay afloat. 
At the time Barclays needed to prioritise its work to process the opening of a business bank 
account for businesses that were applying for the BBLS as receiving that money was vital to 
some businesses survival. Delays for them could have led to a business failing, and a family 
losing their livelihood. Cs application was in its queue for the account to be opened and 
couldnt be fast-tracked because other applications in the queue ahead of it potentially had a 
much greater impact if they were delayed. Until the account was opened the BTL mortgage 
application couldnt proceed. Whilst that account opening took much longer than it normally 
would, I cant hold Barclays liable for that as it was entirely outside of its control. As I said it 
prioritised the account openings by ringfencing that team to get on with that work, rather than 
having them answering chaser calls and emails.
It was nine weeks from the point the proposal could be taken forward (on 21 September) to 
the date the facility letter was issued (on 23 November), so within the eight to twelve weeks 
that is Barclays normal timeframe, and only a week outside the four to eight weeks that 
Miss C says she was told. Bearing in mind the individual circumstances of this application, 
and the unprecedented delays in the business account opening division, that doesnt seem 
at all unreasonable.
It isnt in dispute that the original enquiry was to borrow £130,000. Miss C has said that 
Barclays response that it would only lend £120,000 was appealed as well as the rate and it 
is one of the things she says was different on the loan facility letter that led to her pulling out 
of the application.
Ive considered this issue very carefully and Im not persuaded that Barclays ever said it 
would consider an appeal about the loan amount, or led Miss C to believe that £130,000 was 
possible after it initially said it was only willing to lend a maximum of £120,000.In an email from Mr J on 8 September 2020 Miss C was told:
The funding agreed is less than the requested amount (£130K) this is based on the new 
property not being tenanted together with a reduction of 20% between gross to net rental 
income.
Those issues are within Barclays lending policy and not something it would have waived for 
this application and so there could never have been an appeal agreed about the maximum 
loan amount being £120,000. It may be there was some confusion as I can see Miss C said 
in an email she sent the following day:
Just checking in to see how you got on with the 10 year option with £130k.
 But all references after that to the appeal just relate to the length of the fixed rate and 
whether that would be interest-only or repayment. There is no further mention of the loan 
amount, and nothing to indicate that Barclays led Miss C to believe that could be appealed.
What could be appealed  and was  was the length of the fixed rate that Barclays was 
willing to agree to. Miss C wanted a ten-year fixed rate, whereas Barclays was more 
comfortable with a five-year fixed rate due to the nature of the proposal and the level of 
inexperience of C and/or Miss C. Whilst Barclays went on to agree  after numerous 
discussions  to allow the proposal to proceed on a ten-year fixed rate basis I cant see 
anywhere that it said the interest rate would be the same as that discussed upfront.
Unfortunately the call of 22 September wasnt recorded where Mr Js manager went through 
what had been agreed by Barclays credit team, but Barclays has said that he is a very 
experienced member of staff and would know he needed to read out exactly what had been 
agreed, and the higher interest rate formed part of that. Obviously without a call recording I 
cant say for sure what was said. So Ive considered the other information that is available.
The initial email from Mr J about the proposal refers to a conversation that morning and the 
email being a follow up to provide a breakdown of matters.
That email says:
Interest rate
5 Year fixed  2.79%
10 Year fixed  2.94%
It would be reasonable to infer from the email that the figures mentioned (2.79% and 2.94%) 
would be the actual fixed interest rate, so I can see Miss Cs point that the later agreed 
3.53% is a fair bit higher than the 2.94% quote for a ten-year product.
However the next email from Mr J (where he told Miss C the maximum loan amount was 
£120,000 and that Barclays wanted to proceed with a five-year fixed rate instead) said:
Interest rate margin 2.69% as opposed to the previous 2.94% 
That puts a different perspective on things as it implies the 2.94% referred to in the original 
email was the interest rate margin, rather than the actual interest rate that would be charged. 
And the facility letter that was issued specifies that the interest rate margin (to obtain the 
fixed interest rate of 3.53%) would be 3.07%, which isnt much different from the 2.94% 
originally mentioned. I dont know what was said in the original call between Mr J and Miss C 
when rates were discussed and, as Ive already said, I dont know what was said by Mr Js 
manager when he confirmed the agreement to proceed on a ten-year fixed interest rate basis. But I can see Mr Js manager did manage Miss Cs expectations about the initial 
information given in an email he sent to her on 10 September:
The normal process is to give you an idea of what may be achievable as far as loan offer 
is concerned based on the information you provide but this is for guidance only.
We can only give a concrete offer once we have sign off from our underwriters
It is clear that Barclays wasnt comfortable with the level of risk of the application, which is 
why the initial stages took longer than normal. It isnt unreasonable for a higher risk 
application to be subject to a higher interest rate, thats not at all unusual, and is a decision 
Barclays is entitled to make. Having reviewed everything I cant see that Barclays led Miss C 
to believe that her proposal had been agreed at an interest rate of 2.94% fixed for ten-years. 
So whilst I understand her disappointment when she received the facility letter, I cant say 
Barclays did anything wrong in relation to that.
On a side note I see Miss C said The final interest they provided was 3.530% (and of the 
3.530, 3.070 is not fixed!). Im not sure why Miss C thought the whole rate wasnt fixed as 
the facility letter is clear that the rate of 3.53% would be fixed for ten years  no part of that 
would have been variable within the ten-year period.
Miss C was unhappy with the level of service she received in terms of receiving updates. It is 
clear Miss C wanted more updates, and she wanted them quicker and sooner. I can see at 
times Mr J was on leave, but in his absence his manager dealt with Miss C so she wasnt left 
without a contact. Miss C said that Mr J hadnt told her he would be on leave, but I wouldnt 
have expected him to. 
C wasnt Mr Js only customer, and this wouldnt have been the only proposal he was 
dealing with. At times I can see Miss C was chasing things up much sooner than Id consider 
was reasonable in terms of allowing Barclays time to deal with things. Whilst Miss C was 
understandably concerned about this application, for every customer that is chasing things 
up a person needs to respond to those chases, which takes them away from being able to 
get the things done that are being chased  it can be a vicious circle. Thats why  for 
example  Barclays ringfenced its business account opening team so it didnt answer any 
chase ups, so the staff could concentrate on getting the accounts opened. 
All that said, I agree that Mr J wasnt clear on the timescales and he seemed to be under the 
impression that things would be dealt with sooner. Im satisfied he wasnt purposely 
misleading Miss C, but I do think he could have managed her expectations better by simply 
acknowledging that he didnt know how long it would take, and he wasnt in a position to 
chase things up with the business account opening team as they werent taking any chase 
up calls. Whilst I can see how frustrating that would be, I cant consider how that may have 
impacted Miss C personally. All I can consider is the potential inconvenience to C  the 
limited company that applied for the BTL mortgage  and having done so Im satisfied that 
the £100 Barclays has already paid in compensation is fair and reasonable.
Barclays has already refunded the cost of the valuation, which isnt something we would 
have ordered it to do, and paid £100 compensation. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied that is a fair resolution to Cs complaint and so I dont order Barclays to do anything 
further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied 
Barclays Bank UK PLC made a fair offer to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman