DRN-4211030
The complaint
Mr O complains that despite cancelling his Experian Limited subscription within the 14 day 
cooling offer period it didnt refund £10 owed. 
What happened
Mr O reactivated a Experian Limited Credit Expert subscription that comes with a monthly 
subscription of £14.99. Experian has explained that if customers cancel the membership 
within the first 14 days it will automatically refund £10 to them. Mr O went on to cancel his 
subscription within the 14 day cooling off period, but Experian failed to issue the £10 refund. 
Mr O later contacted Experian about the missing refund and raised a complaint. Experian 
refunded the £10 due to Mr M in March 2023 and sent him a final response. In its final 
response, Experian explained the refund hadnt been made due to a technical issue and 
apologised to Mr O. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Os complaint. They thought Experian had dealt 
with Mr Os complaint fairly and didnt find grounds to award compensation. Mr O asked to 
appeal and said Experian had confirmed it made mistakes and that the funds shouldnt have 
been taken as the service provided was offered for free. Mr O also said that the delay meant 
he didnt have access to the refund amount for several months. As Mr O asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Os response hes advised the original £14.99 subscription shouldnt have been taken 
as the service was free. But Experians provided systems evidence to show that when Mr O 
reactivated the Credit Expert membership it came with a £14.99 subscription. So whilst I 
agree the refund was not made as it should have been, Im satisfied Mr O reactivated a 
service that came with a monthly subscription charge. 
Experian accepts it failed to process the £10 refund owed to Mr O. I agree that was a 
mistake. Im pleased the refund was ultimately processed in March 2023 and Mr O has 
received his money back. I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Os complaint. 
I understand the issue did cause Mr O some inconvenience and that he was without £10 for 
several months. But I havent seen anything that shows Experians actions led to a financial 
loss for Mr O as its refunded the amounts owed. And whilst I agree there was some 
inconvenience here for Mr O, Im satisfied the apology Experian made in its final response 
fairly recognises his experiences and the trouble and upset caused by the delay in receiving 
the refund. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but having considered everything hes said and provided, I 
havent been persuaded there are reasonable grounds to award compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. As Im satisfied the apology and refund were a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Os complaint Im not telling Experian to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman