DRN-3224561
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
sabotaged its business in a number of ways, resulting in its failure. 
O is in liquidation. This complaint has been referred to us by Mr S, the former owner and 
director of O, acting on behalf of the liquidators. 
What happened
In 2012, O was established to buy a hotel out of administration for £1.6m. The hotel had 
been valued at £2m the year before. O borrowed £1.2m from the bank to fund the purchase, 
with the remainder funded by Mr S. Part of Mr Ss contribution was deferred. 
The local tourist board promised matched funding for refurbishing the hotel, if half the funds 
could be raised elsewhere. In the event, the refurbishment never went ahead.
O was loss-making from the start, and by early 2013, it was in excess of its overdraft facility. 
In May 2013, the relationship was transferred to the banks Global Restructuring Group. The 
new GRG relationship manager (RM) required a business review to be undertaken by a 
consultancy firm specialising in the sector. This firm then made some recommendations, 
including the appointment of a new general manager (GM) for the hotel. The bank made 
this appointment a condition for it providing an ongoing overdraft facility of £50,000. The new 
GM was appointed in November 2013. 
By the end of 2013, O had managed to pay some of the deferred consideration for the 
purchase price from cashflow, but £163,000 remained outstanding. In December 2013, O 
was issued with a statutory demand for £163,000 in respect of the outstanding balance. The 
vendors said they would petition for a winding-up order if O didnt pay. 
There were various funding discussions, but the deferred consideration was ultimately paid 
through a mixture of Mr S re-mortgaging his home with a third-party lender and the bank 
increasing Os overdraft, in exchange for Mr Ss personal guarantee for £60,000. The loan 
was also restructured again at this point. 
In January 2014, the bank requested a new valuation from the same valuers that had 
originally valued the hotel at £2m before O bought it. This time, the valuers said it was only 
worth £1.35m (with a worst case scenario if it was closed down with no licenses of 
£900,000). 
In June 2015, a further independent business review required by the bank showed O to be 
insolvent in both cashflow and balance sheet terms. The review said Os overdraft would 
continue to increase and it required significant capital investment. O had also built up arrears 
of over £180,000 with HMRC. 
In 2015, O put the hotel on the market at the request of the bank. However, it was marketed 
at £2.75m, a price the bank regarded as unrealistic. Some preliminary offers were received 
of between £1m and £1.5m, but these were rejected by O as too low. O was also trying to 
refinance elsewhere. 
For the remainder of 2015 and the first half of 2016, the hotel was up for sale as a going 
concern. In early 2016, O engaged a new estate agent. This sole instruction was later 
changed to a joint instruction with the bank, with the remit of achieving a rapid distressed 
sale. This estate agent informally valued the hotel at £1.6m (£800,000 if closed). 
In July 2016, an offer for £1.3m was received, then revised down to £1.05m when the 
buyers research uncovered the fact that the hotel wasnt compliant with health and safety 
regulations. An independent health and safety inspector was appointed and following receipt 
of their report, the bank appointed administrators and the hotel was closed down. 
The administrators sold the hotel for £1.5m as a closed unit. 
In 2017, the bank refunded £3,000 to the administrators of O under its Automatic Fee 
Refund (AFR) programme. It said this was because it had charged monthly monitoring 
fees, which it had classed as complex. 
In August 2018, O moved from administration into liquidation. In October 2018, in return for 
payment, the liquidators assigned to Mr S all causes of action, rights or claims which the 
assignor has or may have against the Royal Bank of Scotland plc in relation to a possible 
claim in respect of the Global Restructuring Group. 
Following the assignment, Mr S complained to the banks voluntary GRG review scheme. In 
summary, he said that the bank had:
Induced him to buy the hotel in 2012.
Accepted the deal with a deferred consideration, which it then used against O, as 
one of the reasons to transfer O unfairly to GRG.
Forced O to pay for a business review, and then forced it to hire a manager on the 
recommendation of that review. Mr S says that the GM then lost O lots of money 
through poor decisions. 
Breached its contract with O by reneging on repeated promises to advance the funds 
for refurbishment, resulting in the local Tourist Boards offer of matched funding being 
lost.
Charged excessive repayments on Os loan.
Unfairly required two cash injections. 
Acted as a shadow director and micro-managed the business.
Concocted lowball valuations, which then served as an excuse for putting more 
pressure on O to sell up.
Frequently changed Os RM, resulting in a complete lack of continuity.
Made oppressive demands for management information.
Charged excessive fees and interest.
Attempted to force O into two property participation agreements.
Sought to undermine the companys attempts to raise finance.
Inappropriately diverted funds to the loan account instead of the business current 
account.
As compensation, Mr S wanted the return of Os pre-administration balance sheet, as well as 
lost profits from 2017 onwards based on projections for the hotels profitability if it had been 
refurbished. He also wanted the return of his original investment and cash injections, as well 
as compensation for his legal fees and distress.  The banks GRG review treated the complaint as a personal complaint from Mr S. It looked 
at the parts of the complaint covering events that took place between 2008 and 2013, as 
events outside of these dates fall outside the remit of this voluntary scheme. 
The GRG review upheld part of Mr Ss complaint about fees, saying that it had unfairly 
charged an arrangement fee of £500 and £2,500 of monthly monitoring fees (which had 
already been refunded to the administrators under the AFR scheme). The bank said that, 
because of the assignment, it could pay this (plus interest) to Mr S, but it would then have to 
increase the amount O owed the bank by the same amount. Mr S didnt accept this offer.
In September 2019, the complaint was referred to our service. We explained that we didnt 
have the power to look at a personal complaint from Mr S. But the liquidators of O confirmed 
that Mr S could represent them in bringing the complaint on behalf of O. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He said that he couldnt consider the complaint 
point about the advice to purchase the hotel, as it hadnt been made in time under our rules. 
He didnt uphold most of the other complaint points, as he didnt think the bank had done 
anything wrong. But he recommended upholding the complaint about fees and directing the 
bank to repay to O:
A £3,649.48 legal fee that had been charged twice.
£1,250, representing an arrangement fee for a two month overdraft extension 
charged at £1,500, when it should have been only £250. 
Our investigator said that interest should be added to these amounts at 8% simple. He also 
agreed that it was fair to refund the £2,500 of monthly monitoring fees and the £500 
arrangement fee, which had already been awarded to O under the AFR. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator and made several further submissions. In summary, his 
main points were:
The bank thought it had made a mistake in lending the money in the first place, thats 
why they were desperate to get rid of the account.
He had evidence of RMs asking for details of refurbishment costs, which showed that 
the bank was planning to provide funding for them.
The GRG RM had promised that once Mr S contributed £50,000 and hired a 
manager, the bank would lend the refurbishment money. 
Neither the original RM nor the banks lawyers had advised him he was overpaying. 
But the bank was quick to revalue the business downwards. 
Our investigator had said that paying excess loan repayments hadnt affected the day 
to day running of the business. But this was clearly wrong, since he was living a 
hand to mouth existence and having to make special requests to the bank just to 
pay suppliers and wages. 
The loan agreement clearly showed a quarterly repayment of £15,000, which wasnt 
what hed been charged. 
If O had been charged the correct repayment, O wouldnt have defaulted on the loan.
If the refurbishment had taken place and the bank hadnt taken extra funds in fees 
and interest and changed RMs multiple times, the business would be thriving now.
The bank had forced him to accept the £1.03m offer, otherwise it would take over 
and sell as a distressed sale. 
He had tried to get the hotel compliant (with health and safety regulations) and then 
achieve a sale, but the bank wouldnt give him any more time. The January 2014 valuation was clearly too low, as another valuer valued the hotel 
informally at £2.25m in 2016 when the bank wasnt involved. If the valuation had 
been correct, O would never have breached loan-to-value (LTV) covenants. 
There would have been no health and safety issue if RBS had paid for the 
refurbishment.
I reached a provisional conclusion that the bank hadnt charged O excessive loan 
instalments at the outset of the loan. I wrote to Mr S and the bank to explain my findings. 
Neither side agreed with me. 
O still maintained that the bank had overcharged it for four quarters, thereby causing 
considerable cashflow problems and pushing the loan into default. Mr S provided some 
testimony from his accountant to support this argument. 
The bank also thought it had overcharged initially, but that it had refunded two of the 
amounts overcharged in October 2013. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, with the exception 
of my findings regarding the loan repayments, which I have already explained to both 
parties. I know this will be desperately disappointing to Mr S, who has been pinning his 
hopes on a different outcome. Id like to explain why Ive reached this conclusion. 
First, theres been extensive correspondence on this case. Id like to assure all the parties 
that Ive looked at all the arguments and evidence with care. In this decision Ill concentrate 
on the key arguments and evidence that are material to my determination of the complaint. 
I know that Mr S feels that, in dividing up the complaint into a list of points, the bank and then 
our investigator have lost sight of the overall picture. He has argued that its important to see 
a pattern in the banks actions, not to look at facts in isolation. I have been mindful of this in 
looking at whats happened. But for ease of reading, Im still going to divide this decision into 
a series of thematic headings. In doing so, I am not saying that all are of equal importance. 
And I have borne in mind that there are sometimes overlapping and compounding impacts, 
which I will discuss.  
First, Ill deal with the parts of Os complaint, which our investigator considered fell outside 
our jurisdiction. 
Does this service have the power to look into the complaint about the actions of the 
banks first RM leading to O buying the hotel?
The rules I must follow are the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. One of the DISP rules sets out the time limits that 
apply to referring complaints to our service. These time limits apply unless the bank 
consents to waive them, which it hasnt here. 
There is more than one part to the time bar rules, but the key relevant part here is that, if the 
bank doesnt agree to us considering the complaint (which it hasnt here), we can only look 
into it if the complaint was made within six years of the date of the event its about. Theres a second part to this rule, which says that, if the complaint wasnt made within the 
six year time limit, we can still look at it if it was made within three years of when the 
complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, they had reason to make the 
complaint. 
The only exceptions to these rules are where a complaint was made within the time periods 
above and theres a written acknowledgement or some other record of it  or the delay in 
making the complaint was caused by exceptional circumstances.
Mr S met with his first RBS RM in late 2011 and the purchase was completed in 
August 2012. This RM left the bank in October 2012. And O complained to the bank in 
October 2018. This means that all the material actions of the original RM took place more 
than six years before the complaint. This includes any encouragement to proceed with the 
deal, as well as any guidance Mr S now feels he should have been given by the bank 
relating to the deferred consideration or the value of the hotel. I agree with our investigator 
that this timeline means that this part of the complaint has been made too late. 
O was aware of all the actions of the first OM at the time they occurred, but I accept might 
not have realised there was any reason to complain about them at the time. I think, however, 
that subsequent events would have quickly cast them in a different light and given him his 
cause for complaint. I consider this would have happened at the latest by the time GRG 
made it clear it wanted O to sell up, which was in early 2015. This means that the three year 
part of the rule doesnt give O any extra time. 
Mr S has said that he complained earlier, and has directed me to a letter from his 
accountants, in which they argue that the transfer to GRG was premature. But I dont think 
this constitutes a complaint and theres no evidence that the bank treated it as such. 
Mr S has also argued, that once O was in administration, he was removed as a director and 
therefore excluded from any further involvement with it. The bank wouldnt communicate with 
him about Os accounts or provide him with any information about them. He says that means 
he couldnt complain on behalf of O between July 2016 and August 2018, when the 
liquidators assigned him the rights to do so. 
I sympathise with Mr Ss argument here and I dont doubt that what he says is true. But 
unfortunately, the only complaint I have the power to consider here is a complaint from O. 
Mr S doesnt have the power to refer the complaint to our service in his personal capacity, 
because the events complained of happened to O not to him. 
As Im looking at a complaint from O not Mr S, it doesnt make any difference that he was 
personally unable to complain for a period. Im satisfied that there werent any exceptional 
circumstances preventing O from making the complaint in time. I say this because Os 
administrators would have had the power to make the complaint at any time after July 2016, 
and the liquidators could have done so after October 2018. 
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr S. Its clear that he had every intention of 
complaining and he did so within a relatively short interval of getting the assignment. And I 
realise that the bank has chosen to respond to the complaint as a personal complaint, which 
it is perfectly entitled to do. But unfortunately, that doesnt make any difference to my powers 
here, which stem from the DISP rules. 
I therefore find that this part of the complaint has not been made in time and I have no power 
to consider it. Im satisfied that I have the power to consider the rest of Os complaint. Did the bank renege on its promise to lend more money to cover refurbishing the 
hotel? 
Im going to consider this part of the complaint next, because I consider it to be Mr Ss 
central concern. This is because Mr S argues that most of what happened subsequently 
flowed from Os inability to refurbish, because it didnt have the money to do so. His 
argument is that, not only would O have been able to charge more and attract more custom 
if it had been refurbished (thereby making it worth more and generation enough cash to 
service its loans), but also the hotel wouldnt ultimately have been shut down for health and 
safety reasons. 
I dont disagree with Mr Ss analysis of how crucial refurbishing the hotel was. And its clear 
that the bank, too, was well aware of the need to refurbish. But the point I need to decide is 
whether the bank ever promised to lend money to cover these costs. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr S, but based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it ever made such a promise.
Its clear that the bank had many discussions about the refurbishment and asked several 
times for costings and other information relating to it. But I dont think an information request 
constitutes a promise to lend.
I dont doubt that the first two RMs were broadly supportive of providing funding for 
refurbishment. But it was always the case that the lending proposal would need to be 
cleared by the banks credit department, and I cant see that this was hidden from O. I say 
this in part because Mr S sent an email in November 2012, when the second RM was 
looking at providing refurbishment funds, saying lets hope for a positive response from the 
credit team. So I think this shows that the RM had made it clear that it depended on credit 
approval  and that O understood this. 
In saying this, Im conscious that I only have evidence from email correspondence, I dont 
have any telephone recordings or detailed meeting notes. So I cant know everything that 
was discussed. But I havent seen anything that suggests a commitment to lend, only that 
various possibilities were considered. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken account of the Supreme Court judgment in the case of 
Carlyle vs Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. That case concerned whether a legally binding 
promise to advance further funds existed, notwithstanding the absence of a written contract. 
In his judgment, the judge found that the bank had intended to enter into a binding contract. 
However, that case was decided on some very specific facts and Im not persuaded that the 
same circumstances apply here. I havent seen any evidence that leads me to conclude that 
the bank intended to enter into a binding contract to advance the refurbishment funds. 
I can also see that things changed in terms of Mr Ss ability to contribute to the funds 
required himself. For example, initially there was to be no deferred consideration because 
Mr S was obtaining funds from abroad. In February 2013, his accountants again mentioned 
to the bank that Mr S had some of his own funds to put towards the project. And in August 
2013, Mr S said that he was making a trip to [abroad] soon to organise funds for the refurb. 
So I think that, at various points, the bank might reasonably have thought that funds were 
available from other sources. Mr S says specifically that the GRG RM had promised that once Mr S contributed £50,000 
and hired a manager, the bank would lend the refurbishment money. But he hasnt provided 
evidence of this promise. I can see that O discussed this with the bank and the RM at the 
time was supportive in principle. An email from Os advisor in October 2013 said Thank you 
for the meeting on Friday and your support in principle for the business (subject to Credit). 
This is a huge relief for [Mr S]... Like the email in November 2012, this doesnt, in my view, 
show the bank making a contractual commitment. Its apparent from Os advisors words that 
the RM made it clear that the banks support was subject to Credit and therefore not 
certain. 
Unfortunately, shortly after these discussions, the former owners of the hotel demanded 
payment of the outstanding deferred consideration. So the request to the bank changed from 
funding to cover the refurbishment to funding to cover the deferred consideration. So by the 
time the finance was put in place, it was a different package for a different purpose. Much as 
O might have preferred to spend the money on refurbishment, this shift wasnt the banks 
fault. 
My conclusion is that the bank didnt act unfairly regarding the refurbishment funding. In 
reaching this conclusion, Im not disputing Mr Ss analysis that things might have ended very 
differently if the refurbishment had gone ahead. This may well be true. But what I am saying 
is that Ive seen no evidence that the bank ever committed to provide the funding. It follows 
that I dont think the bank is responsible for the consequences that may have flowed from 
the failure to refurbish  such as the health and safety failures that precipitated the hotels 
ultimate closure. 
Did the bank make an error in setting up the loan with capital payments that were too 
high? Did it correct any error? And what were the implications of this? 
O has consistently said that, when the original deal changed from buying two hotels with a 
£1.8m loan to buying one with a £1.2m loan, the bank failed to adjust for the lower amount 
borrowed, meaning that Os capital repayments were too high. 
Ive seen the original loan agreement, which was signed in May 2012 and documented a 
loan of £1.8m to be repaid in 19 instalments of £22,500 and one of £1.375m plus interest. 
A supplemental agreement was signed in April 2013, which amended the instalments to 17 
of £15,000 and one of £900,000 plus interest.  
However, having looked very carefully at Os statements, I dont agree that O was 
overcharged at the start. The documentation was wrong but Im not persuaded the amounts 
charged matched the documentation. 
I can see from Os bank statements that O was being charged one quarterly amount made 
up of interest and capital. Interest on the £1.2m loan was roughly £10,000-£11,000 a 
quarter. O was originally charged around £25,000-£26,000 a quarter in combined capital and 
interest. This meant that from each instalment, around £10,000 was covering interest and 
around £15,000 was repaying capital.  
In other words, right from the start, O was paying £15,000 towards repaying the capital each 
quarter, which is the amount set out in the amendment to the loan, not the amount in the 
original £1.8m agreement. I therefore think the supplemental agreement documented what 
was already happening in practice, rather than altering the repayments.  I know that Mr S disagrees with me about this point. He has sent me copies of the 
supplemental agreement and testimony from his accountant to support his argument. I dont 
dispute that the supplemental agreement was put in place. But this doesnt alter what was 
actually paid at the time, evidenced by the bank statements. 
O has argued in the past that the bank charged interest on the higher £1.8m amount. But I 
dont see any evidence of this. The interest debited to the loan account is in line with what Id 
expect for a £1.2m loan at LIBOR +3%. If the bank had been charging interest on £1.8m, 
plus a capital repayment of £22,500 a quarter, the repayments would have been 
considerably higher than £26,000 a quarter. 
I dont doubt that O expected its repayments to reduce when the supplemental agreement 
was put in place. And it seems likely that the bank failed to explain things clearly. This meant 
O was left unable to understand why the repayments didnt reduce. It was further confused 
when the bank agreed a capital repayment holiday at its request, because it was expecting 
interest to be lower than around £10,000 a quarter.
It follows that I dont agree that O was deprived of a significant amount of cash because of 
the banks supposed error. And I dont think that a bank error was responsible for Os default 
in October 2013. I think the banks only error was one of communication. It failed to explain 
the loan repayments fairly and clearly to O and Im not convinced the bank understood what 
had happened itself. 
Theres also a disagreement about an amount of £15,000 that the bank debited to Os loan 
and credited to its current account in October 2013. The bank says that this was it refunding 
two of the overpayments it thinks O paid. I am not persuaded by this. I think this was the 
bank reversing Os quarterly instalment of that amount, thereby putting the loan into default. 
It may be worth pointing out that, even if Im wrong and the bank charged too high loan 
instalments initially, I dont think it would have made a material difference to the outcome for 
O. It would have made a difference of around £30,000 in cash, equivalent to about one 
months payroll for O. So I think O would still have run out of cash and ended up in the same 
position slightly later. 
I note that both sides agree that the bank did refund the excess arrangement fee it initially 
charged, albeit not until May 2013. 
Did the bank unfairly transfer the management of Os accounts to GRG? And were the 
frequent changes of RM unfair? 
I note that the bank gave a number of different reasons for the transfer to GRG. The validity 
of these were evaluated by the banks GRG review. O disagrees with their approach and 
conclusions, particularly the banks inclusion of a potential covenant breach  when the 
covenant test hadnt yet fallen due. 
I can see that the potential covenant breach was only one of a number of reasons given. I 
also think there are circumstances in which banks need to be proactive about recognising 
customers in difficulty, so I dont think it was unreasonable to flag a possible future breach as 
one amongst several factors of possible concern. 
I know Mr S thinks the extra loan repayments he believes O made contributed to the transfer 
to GRG. But Ive already explained my conclusions on this point. Fundamentally, I agree with our investigator that banks are entitled to organise the 
management of their work and staff in whichever way they consider best, as long as they 
treat their customers fairly. And I havent seen evidence that O was treated differently as a 
result of being in GRG. 
Its unfortunate that O had frequent changes of RM at the bank. Im sure this was frustrating 
and resulted in some duplication of effort for O. But banks are entitled to move their staff and 
in this case, I understand that there were several resignations, which arent within the banks 
control. I cant see that there was any deliberate unfairness in the way Os accounts were 
managed. 
Did the bank unfairly demand cash injections and a personal guarantee?
Mr S and the bank both seem to agree that he made cash injections of £50,000 in 2014 and 
£20,000 in May 2015. 
I dont consider there is anything inherently unfair in a bank requiring cash injections as a 
condition of new lending or renewed support, particularly in circumstances where the banks 
lending was clearly outside its appetite. 
In Os case, the first cash injection happened around the time when the deferred 
consideration had to be paid  in fact, I think half of the £50,000 may have gone straight 
towards the deferred consideration, although records are unclear. Mr S also raised a further 
£120,000 by re-mortgaging his home and gave a personal guarantee at this time. 
I dont think the bank acted unfairly in requiring the cash injection or the guarantee. It was 
being asked to provide new money, both in additional overdraft and also adding to the loan, 
so I consider it was entitled to set conditions for this lending. I see nothing unreasonable in 
those set. 
In 2015, O had again requested new money, in the form of an increased overdraft facility. I 
agree with our investigator that the bank was entitled to set conditions in these 
circumstances and a £20,000 cash injection does not seem unreasonable.  
Did the bank charge unfair fees and interest? 
Starting with the fees, there are two groups of fees complained of here  one are the banks 
own fees and the other are fees incurred due to the bank requiring O to employ the services 
of third parties. 
In terms of the banks own fees, it has already refunded £3,000, being all the monthly 
monitoring fees charged, plus one £500 arrangement fee. 
The bank has also now accepted that the £1,500 fee it charged for a two month overdraft 
extension in August 2015 was excessive and offered to refund £1,250 of it plus interest. This 
was because the bank thought it would have been reasonable to charge a £250 
arrangement fee. I consider this offer fair. 
I can only see one further fee charged by the bank (other than normal bank charges for 
operating a business account), which was a £825 arrangement fee paid in 2014. This was 
paid in connection with a temporary increase in the overdraft requested by O, which expired 
in January 2015. Arrangement fees are a standard feature of bank borrowing and I dont see 
anything unfair in this one. In terms of third-party fees, I have seen that O paid:
£3,649 of legal fees in April 2013, which the bank now accepts were double-charged
£918.54 for a security review
£5,365.92 for the business review in 2013
£12,194 for a second business review in 2015
£2,760 valuation fee for January 2014 valuation
The loan agreement entitled the bank to carry out (and charge its customer for) the security 
review and valuation. Im satisfied both undertaken in line with the loan documentation, so I 
dont see any reason to conclude they were unfair.  
In terms of the two business reviews, the question here is whether it was reasonable for the 
bank to seek independent reports from suitable industry experts. The situation here was that 
it had lent a considerable amount to a loss-making business, owned by a geographically 
remote owner with no previous experience in the sector. I think in these particular 
circumstances, it was reasonable to require the reviews. On each occasion, O agreed to 
them and signed joint terms of engagement with the bank. I suspect O also incurred further 
fees relating to the recruitment of the GM, which also seems reasonable. 
I note that Mr S has also said that the bank forced him to enter into two Property 
Participation Fee Agreements. I agree with the bank and our investigator that these 
agreements were both proposals, neither of which was ever put in place. I dont think the 
bank was at fault in proposing them, and even if it was, then O didnt suffer any loss as a 
result.  
When the bank restructured the loan in 2014, a second loan for £232,500 was introduced. 
This was effectively a mezzanine loan, incurring interest at a rate of base + 9.5%, of which 
6.5% was deferred as an exit fee. There was also a mezzanine fee documented. However, 
the bank has said that the exit fee and mezzanine fee were not charged when the 
administrators sold the hotel and I havent seen any evidence to refute this. On that basis, O 
hasnt made a loss because of these fees so there is no point in me making any finding on 
their fairness. 
In terms of interest charged, the main loan remained at a 3% margin throughout, as did the 
overdraft. Interest was charged on the overdraft at an excess rate when it was over the 
agreed limit, which is standard practice. Similarly, the interest on the mezzanine loan was 
charged at a default rate of 5.5% after a payment was missed. This was in line with the 
banks documentation and guidelines. I dont see anything unreasonable there, particularly 
as the mezzanine fee and exit fee were never charged.
In summary, I agree with our investigators finding that the bank should refund the legal fee 
of £3,649.48 and £1,250 of the £1,500 arrangement fee.
Did the bank unreasonably require lowball valuations? 
Mr Ss original complaint said that the bank concocted lowball valuations. I disagree with 
that allegation. Ive seen no evidence that the bank concocted anything. In January 2014, 
the bank decided it wanted an up-to-date valuation because O had asked for additional 
borrowing and a repayment holiday. This was something that the loan documentation 
entitled it to do, as long as the existing valuation was more than a year old (and it was more 
than two years old at that point). A valuation was undertaken by a professional valuation firm. The bank gave O a choice of 
two valuers (with price quotations), from which it chose one. This was the same firm which 
had valued the two hotels before O bought one. 
The new valuation was very disappointing to O at £1.35m. Mr S argues that this had the 
knock-on effect of meaning O breached its loan-to-value covenants and caused the bank to 
be more concerned about its lending. He also argues that the fact that the administrators 
ultimately sold the hotel for £1.5m shows that this valuation was always disproportionately 
low. However, as it was an independent professional valuation undertaken by a firm of Os 
choice, I dont think I can fairly conclude the bank was wrong to rely on it. 
I also havent seen that the bank required any further valuations, although one was 
undertaken by a different firm in connection with marketing the hotel for sale. I can see that, 
while the hotel was on the market, there was a lot of strain caused by the conflict between 
Os desire to achieve the highest possible price and the banks desire for a quick sale to get 
its money back. I know O would like to have been given more time. But I dont think the bank 
behaved unreasonably. 
Did the bank act as a shadow director  particularly with regard to putting in place a 
GM, making unreasonable information requests and diverting funds to the loan 
account
I dont think there was anything wrong with the strategy of appointing an experienced 
manager, given that the business needed turning around and Mr S was clearly both 
geographically remote and new to the sector. The bank was entitled to make this a condition 
of sanction of new lending if it chose. 
Mr S has said the bank made him hire the manager of their choice. But I dont think this is 
correct. Correspondence from the time shows that the bank didnt play a part in the 
recruitment process. In fact, an adviser working for O at that time led the process, using a 
professional recruitment agent. The consultancy firm that produced the report were also 
used to assist with interviewing the shortlisted candidates. The recommended candidate 
appeared suitably qualified and experienced and Mr S approved his appointment. I dont 
think theres any evidence of the bank acting as a shadow director in the making of this 
appointment. 
Mr S says that this candidate, who left after around a year, proved costly and incompetent in 
hindsight. But I dont think this was the banks fault . If he turned about to be a poor choice, I 
dont think there was any way the bank could have known that, any more than Mr S did. 
Mr S says that the 2015 report from a different consultancy confirms that the GM lost O 
money. I havent seen this report in full, but the extracts quoted by Mr Ss legal 
representatives only provide evidence that Mr S told the consultants that the GM had been 
unsuccessful. For example, the report is quoted as saying the director has informed us that 
the GM was ineffective and that trading deteriorated as a result and we understand that 
they [special offers] were unprofitable. In any case, I dont think the conclusions of this 
report make any difference. I still think that the banks actions in making the appointment of 
the GM a condition of sanction were reasonable. 
Theres evidence of the bank contacting the GM direct to ask for information, for example, an 
update on the trading position and an aged creditor list. But I havent seen evidence of the 
bank asking for anything that I think went beyond a normal banking relationship and 
suggested they were taking control. Asking for information doesnt mean they were dictating 
Os decisions. I havent seen any evidence of the bank making unreasonable information requests. 
Although it did ask for a lot of financial information, there was nothing unusual in its requests. 
I think they were reasonable in the light of Os cashflow problems, which resulted in frequent 
overdraft excesses and last minute requests for funds to pay essential bills. They were also 
all documented and agreed in the various facility agreements.  
Turning to the BACS credits received into the loan account, Ive examined the statements for 
the restructured loans and I can see that the main loan account received three credits from 
the same travel firm in 2015, amounting in total to around £4,500. 
Mr S argues that the bank RM engineered this deliberately to show payments coming into 
the loan account. He says no-one at the hotel knew the account details for the loan. 
Im not persuaded that this diversion of funds was a deliberate action. Ive seen an email 
from the GRG RM dated February 2015, in which the RM draws Mr Ss attention to the 
BACS payments. This email suggests that someone at O had given the wrong bank account 
details for payment to a third-party. I dont see any likelihood that the bank would have 
engineered this and if it had, I dont think it would have pointed it out to Mr S and asked him 
to get in touch about it. I think this is more likely to be an administrative error and I dont think 
the amounts involved make it particularly significant.  
Did the bank seek to undermine Os attempts to raise finance from other lenders?
The allegation here is that in 2016, the GRG RM deliberately discouraged other lenders and 
brokers by informing them of the low 2014 valuation of the hotel. 
Ive seen evidence confirming that the bank did have conversations with at least one other 
prospective lender in 2016. One of the lenders wrote to Mr S saying: Furthermore, Mr [] at 
RBS firmly advised me that [] carried out a survey recently and reported a lower valuation 
figure circa £1.3m as a going concern 
I can see Mr Ss frustration here, as a broker had told him that a refinance was approved 
subject to valuation  but that this valuation, based on a 70% loan-to-value, needed to be 
in excess of £2.5m. Mr S believed the hotel to be worth that much and had been marketing it 
as such. However, I dont think the evidence cited shows the bank proactively undermining 
Os refinancing attempts. The banks formal valuation at that point was the 2014 one. 
Although Mr S regarded that valuation as far too low, it was an independent valuation by a 
qualified agent selected by O. So if the bank did share this valuation, then it was only 
passing on factual information. 
I see no likelihood that the bank would have set out deliberately to discourage other lenders. 
On the contrary, the bank clearly wanted to be repaid and would have been very happy to 
see a full refinancing go ahead. For that reason, I think its highly unlikely that the bank 
would have offered unsolicited discouraging information. My conclusion is that its more likely 
than not that the bank gave an honest answer to the question it was asked. 
Did the bank act unfairly in forcing O to accept an offer for the hotel and refusing to 
give O more time? 
By July 2016, O had been trying to sell the hotel for some time at a price it thought was 
realistic, but the bank thought was too high. So I think the bank had shown some 
forbearance in giving O a chance to pursue its own sale strategy. 
O then received an offer for £1.3m, which was then revised down to £1.05m when the buyer 
became aware of the fact that the hotel wasnt compliant with health and safety regulations. I havent seen any evidence that the bank forced O to accept this offer, but the RM was 
setting out his requirements quite forcefully by this stage and made it very clear what the 
consequences of not accepting the offer were  that is, the bank appointing administrators. I 
can see why O felt it had no choice. But I dont think any of this was unfair on the part of the 
bank. I think its communications were clear and professional. 
In any case, this sale fell through, the hotel was closed down and the bank then appointed 
administrators. So I dont think the banks actions in relation to this offer made any difference 
to the eventual outcome. 
I know O would have liked more time to come up with another solution. Even after the hotel 
was closed, O would have liked to have been given the opportunity to achieve health and 
safety compliance, reopen and sell as a going concern. But there was no way of knowing 
how long that might take. The bank was entitled to require its money back and had already 
been waiting for O to sell for over a year. So I dont think it acted unfairly. 
I realise Mr S feels that if the bank had given him the refurbishment funds, there would never 
have been a problem with health and safety compliance. But Ive already explained my 
finding that the bank never committed to do this.  
Putting things right
As explained above, I am only upholding the part of the complaint relating to two fees. I am 
therefore directing the bank to refund the fees and pay interest on them from the date they 
were originally paid. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay O:
£3,649.48, together with interest at 8% simple, from the date of payment by O until 
the date of settlement. 
£1,250, together with interest at 8% simple, from the date of payment by O until the 
date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022. 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman