DRN-3686199
The complaint
Mr F complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) delayed the transfer of 
his self-invested pension plan (SIPP) to a new pension provider and applied a back dated 
valuation that was lower than the value when the transfer was actually made to the new 
provider. He would like the correct transfer value paid.
What happened
Mr F wanted to transfer his SIPP with Standard Life to another provider (Aegon) and 
submitted a transfer request on 21 October 2021. Some of his investment was in a restricted 
fund which couldnt be sold at that time and Standard Life and Aegon liaised over this. 
Standard Life agreed it would make a partial transfer if Mr F wanted to. Which he confirmed 
he did on 26 October 2021. Aegon advised Standard Life it would accept the partial transfer 
on 1 November 2021. 
Standard Life released the transfer to Aegon by BACs on 8 November 2021 and Aegon 
confirmed it had received a transfer value of around £115,000. This was around £4,000 less 
than Mr F had expected as hed been checking the value on Standard Lifes system, and he 
queried this with it on 10 November 2021. 
Standard Life said the figure paid was correct. It said whilst customers could see online 
valuations until the transfer process was completed, the valuation date used was the date 
that all the information necessary to process the transfer had been received. This had been 
1 November 2021, when Aegon had confirmed it would accept a partial transfer. It said that 
this process was used for all transfer requests as it was fair.
Mr F disagreed and asked Standard Life for a copy of the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of 
his SIPP, and contract notes confirming when the investments sales had been made and at 
what value. Standard Life said it would provide this information. But Mr F says he had to 
chase the contract notes and valuation details on multiple occasions before being told this 
couldnt be provided. 
Standard Life wrote to Mr F on 25 November 2021 apologising for misinforming him about 
the contract notes. It said that no individual contract notes were generated as buy and sell 
trades were completed on an aggregated basis with other investors. It said that its transfer 
process of using the value on the date all necessary information to complete the transfer 
was received wasnt detailed in its T&Cs but was an internal process. It said this was 
applied to all transfers to ensure fairness across all investors as the timeframe for 
completion of a transfer to the new provider could be variable due to fluctuating volumes of 
work. 
Mr F said hed had many years experience with stock market and pension investments and 
had always previously received the value on the day the actual transaction took place.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Standard Life had delayed the transfer as it had done 
everything necessary to agree the transfer with both Aegon and Mr F within six working 
days. It then completed the transfer within a further five working days, which was a 
reasonable timeframe. 
She said the earliest date Standard Life could have completed the transfer was 1 November 
2021. And whilst it didnt have the capacity to complete the transfer on that date it had 
honoured that days valuation. She said this process wasnt outlined in the T&Cs, but 
Standard Life was required to treat customers fairly and apply procedures consistently. She 
said the process ensured no customer would be impacted by delays in Standard Lifes ability 
to complete transfers due to variable work volumes. She said this was a consistent process, 
so it was fair even if it meant due to price fluctuations some values would increase or 
decrease pending the actual payment of the transfer value to the new provider. 
Mr F said he didnt agree this was fair and wanted confirmation of the value of the 
investment on the date they were actually sold (8 November 2021). Our investigator said she 
would ask Standard Life to send him this information if it was available. 
As Mr F doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Standard Life or 
other businesses to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I 
think there have been failings. I also cant generally consider a complaint about how a 
business has handled a complaint, because that in itself isnt a regulated activity. What I can 
consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress 
and inconvenience and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things right. 
I understand Mr Fs frustration, but I dont think Standard Life have treated him unfairly. I 
dont think it caused an unreasonable delay in processing the transfer or making the 
payment to Aegon. I can see from Standard Lifes records that it received Aegons 
confirmation on 1 November 2021 but didnt pick this up as a work item until 5 November 
2021. It then processed the physical transfer on 8 November 2021, which was the next 
working day. 
Standard Life has confirmed its process is to value the transfer at the date it receives all the 
information needed to make the transfer. This process is applied consistently and had 
investment markets fallen rather than risen it would have still honoured the valuation on 1 
November 2021. It isnt reasonable to expect a business to be able to consistently process a 
pension transfer the same day all its requirements are met, as work volumes do fluctuate. 
I think this approach provides a fair outcome to all customers. And if Standard Life then 
unreasonably delayed paying the transfer to Aegon (which it didnt) I would expect it to pay 
interest during the delay. And I dont think the approach Standard Life has adopted is 
untypical of the marketplace with pension transfers of this type. So, I dont think it has 
treated Mr F unreasonably here.Standard Life has explained that the pooled investments funds held in Mr Fs SIPP are held 
in aggregate with other investors with Standard Life being the beneficial owner rather than 
Mr F. So, there are no individual contract notes on purchases or sales. This is explained in 
the T&Cs of the plan, which also refer to another document available on Standard Lifes 
website; Understanding Unit Linked Funds. This sets out further details of how these funds 
are operated and priced. This is a complicated process and is quite different to how 
investments like direct equities would be traded and held in a SIPP. 
So, whilst Mr F was initially given incorrect information about the availability of contract notes 
I dont think this has affected the outcome in any way. And Standard Life hasnt treated him 
unfairly or unreasonably in processing his transfer request.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman