DRN-3783769
The complaint
Ms L complains that Santander UK Plc made a payment she didnt authorise and caused her
distress.
What happened
Ms L went to a branch to pay her credit card bill. She says that the balance was largely a
deposit shed paid to her builder. And shed made a faster payment before to that builder.
She was upset to learn that the member of staff hadnt paid the credit card bill. But had
instead paid over £7,900 directly to the builders account. She says this caused her to have
a panic attack. She had to speak to the builder and was later able to resolve things that day.
Santander issued a final response stating that our investigations have shown that this may
not be due to a mistake on our part and that there was some confusion and that the
member of staff had offered to recover the money but Ms L wanted to do so. It said that
monetary compensation wasnt appropriate.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought that
Santander had made an error. And the contact notes had stated that Ms L had said that she
wanted to pay her credit card and not the builder. She was able to get the money back but
described the anxiety that had been caused to her. He recommended that it pay her £75.
Santander agreed to pay this money.
Ms L didnt agree. She said that this didnt reflect the impact on her. Although Santander had
told her it could contact the credit card company there was no dedicated phone line for it to
do so. There was no apology from the member of staff and Ms L had asked her to note that
she wanted compensation. There had been no mention of the anxiety and shock caused to
her. Ms L said she had been dealing with an experienced member of staff and she had
discussed the payment of this bill a couple of days earlier. She referred to receiving a similar
amount of compensation to that recommended here for a much less serious case. And she
said that she now expected £250.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2022. I set out below what I said.
Id listened to two calls Ms L has had with this service about what has happened. And Id
found her testimony to be consistent and reliable.
Its clear to me that Ms L wanted to pay her credit card bill. Shed been to the branch a
couple of days earlier to see if a direct debit had been made to pay the balance. And shed
come back when this hadnt happened. While I appreciated that the balance on that credit
card included a payment to the builders I saw limited room for confusion about what Ms L
wanted to do in her mind. And I didnt think that a faster payment mandate had been
established for the credit card company before  it seemed from her bank statement that
earlier payments had been made by direct debit.
Given the amount of the payment by a faster payment and that the member of staff seemed
to conclude it was for the builder Id have expected a reasonable degree of vigilance -
especially given the potential for a scam. And in any event I found on balance that this was 
at best a careless mistake by Santander. I noted it says Ms L input her PIN to make the
payment, but I concluded that her description of the payment she wanted to make was clear
and that she didnt consent to and authorise a payment to the builder.
The option of claiming money back through a credit card dispute referred to seemed to
recognise that a faster payment couldnt be recalled. And this would have involved a
chargeback of a different payment and potentially significant delay  something perhaps
appropriate had the builder not refunded the money.
I could see reference in the customer notes to Ms L reporting this put her anxiety very high.
And I thought some level of distress was self-evident. My impression of the reaction of
Santander on the information available is that it wasnt as sympathetic as it could have been,
and which might have helped mitigate things.
There are two aspects I was considering in the amount of compensation. First that Ms L was
inconvenienced by needing to phone the builders as I understand it twice that day  and as I
said I didnt think that the card dispute route was the preferrable option. And second I 
accepted she was distressed, and I thought that this was compounded by the response she 
received.
Id asked Santander through our investigator whether it was prepared to pay her what I 
thought reasonable and was £200 here. It didnt agree and so I issued a provisional
decision. I knew that this compensation was less than Ms L wants. But in reaching this view
Id taken into account our published guidelines, my assessment of the facts in this case 
alone and what shes said in her testimony.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L said that she accepted my provisional decision. In her view the member of staff and 
manager she dealt with needed training about communication and dealing with errors. Ms L 
said she felt blamed for what had happened. 
I allowed Santander time to the deadline Id set for comments but didnt receive anything 
further.
Im looking at this particular case and putting things right here for Ms L. So, its outside my 
remit to require any specific staff training. I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to pay Ms L £200.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman