DRN-3603315
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about how One Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance through an online price 
comparison site and then she completed the purchase through a brokers site. When she 
was involved in an accident with another driver, she tried to claim on her policy. 
One Insurance declined her claim, avoided her policy and refunded the premiums shed 
already paid. When Mrs C complained, it said shed incorrectly answered the assumption 
about her car not being a previous total loss. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and refuse her 
claim. 
One Insurance later decided that the misrepresentation had been careless. It said this was 
because Mrs C hadnt been asked a direct question about the cars status, and it decided to 
cancel the policy instead of avoiding it. It dealt with the other drivers claim and offered to 
deal with Mrs Cs claim. But it wanted her to repay the premiums it had reimbursed. Mrs C 
thought this was unfair. She was also unhappy that the accident wasnt fully investigated 
before liability was accepted. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. He believed it was careless. And he 
thought One Insurance was entitled to decline the claim and avoid the policy, but it had 
reasonably decided to cancel the policy instead and deal with the claim. So he thought it was 
reasonable for One Insurance to ask for the premiums to be returned. He also thought One 
Insurance had decided liability reasonably. 
Mrs C doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She 
thought the other driver was speeding and didnt agree that she was fully liable for the 
accident. She thought the claim had been closed before being fully investigated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a frustrating and stressful episode for Mrs C. I was sorry 
to hear of the upset this has caused her. I can also understand that having the cancellation 
on her record will have a significant impact on her. 
I can see that there are two parts to Mrs Cs complaint, which I will consider in turn, the 
avoidance and the liability decision. 
One Insurance said that Mrs C had misrepresented the status of her car when she took out 
her policy. Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
One Insurance thought Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she stated in her application via a comparison site that her car 
wasnt a previous write-off. 
And Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the application on the 
brokers site, and I agree she failed to take reasonable care. This is because she was asked 
to confirm or disagree a set of assumptions about her car before she could move on with her 
purchase. The assumptions were clearly set out and included one stating the car hadnt 
been a previous write-off. 
As One Insurance later accepted, Mrs C wasnt asked a direct question about her car being 
a previous total loss. But Mrs C told us that she had bought the car as a previous total loss, 
so theres no doubt about the cars write-off status and that she was aware of this. And so I 
think it was for Mrs C to take reasonable care to read the short list of assumptions and 
decide to confirm them or not. 
Mrs C chose to confirm that her car wasnt a previous write-off. The brokers welcome pack 
also stated that Mrs C should tell it if her car had been a previous write-off, but she didnt do 
this. So Im satisfied that Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she accepted the policys assumptions, including the cars write-off 
status. 
One Insurance has provided evidence which shows that if Mrs C hadnt made the 
misrepresentation, it wouldnt have provided cover at all. This means I am satisfied Mrs Cs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Im also satisfied that the misrepresentation was careless as One Insurance hasnt shown 
that Mrs C misrepresented deliberately or recklessly. So Im satisfied that it would be fair and 
reasonable for One Insurance to avoid Mrs Cs policy under CIDRA for this reason. 
But it decided to cancel her policy instead, which I cant say is unfair or unreasonable. One 
Insurance also paid Mrs C £150 compensation for making the change. I think that was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances as it took into account Mrs Cs distress. 
Cancellation rather than avoidance is an advantage for a consumer as they dont have to 
declare the avoidance. But its also a major benefit in that the insurer still has to deal with the 
claim. This is because avoidance annuls the policy back to the start as if it never existed and 
so there is no cover in place for the claim. Whereas cancellation ends the policy from the moment it is applied and not retrospectively and so any claim that pre-dates cancellation 
falls to be dealt with by the insurer. And I can see that One Insurance has dealt with the 
other drivers claim and Mrs C has now contacted it about her own repairs. 
And, as a claim was made and the policy was used, then the full years premium would be 
due. So I think its fair and reasonable for One Insurance to request that Mrs C return the 
refund she was given. The amount of this refund was £209.03. Mrs C has received a 
demand for more than this amount, without explanation. But, from what I can see, £209.03 is 
the amount she should return to One Insurance.
One Insurance held Mrs C fully liable for the accident. It did this shortly after she first notified 
it of the accident, based on the description she provided, and before it had considered all the 
evidence that was available. This included a witness statement, CCTV footage, damage to 
the vehicles, and possible dashcam footage from the other drivers car. 
The circumstances were that Mrs C was reversing out of her driveway onto a road when the 
other car collided with hers. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mrs C the same as someone else in 
her position. 
One Insurance is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs C to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs C has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
One Insurance said it had settled the claim as fault as the greater onus was on Mrs C as she 
was reversing from a minor road into a major road, and it didnt have think it could recover its 
costs from the other party. Also, it thought a court would decide the outcome in the same 
way. 
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration that she thought the other driver was speeding. But I 
can see that One Insurance later reviewed the CCTV footage and it couldnt establish this. It 
contacted the witness and asked for a statement, but without success. But I dont think his 
testimony would have changed the outcome as the circumstances werent in doubt and he 
couldnt prove that the other driver was speeding. Nor would the damage caused establish 
the speed of the parties. The other driver may have had dashcam footage, but he was under 
no obligation to provide it to One Insurance. 
So I think One Insurance fairly and reasonably accepted liability for the accident on Mrs Cs 
behalf after considering the circumstances. I think it was entitled to do this in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that it acted incorrectly in this or needs to 
investigate the claim further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman