DRN-4007204
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund the money she has 
lost following her falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mrs A was called randomly by a business called Magnasale (X) claiming to be 
able to help recover money she lost trading previously. Mrs A explained she didnt have any 
money and she wasnt interested. Mrs A was then passed to someone claiming to be a 
manager who offered to credit her account with $500 to get her started.
X instructed Mrs A to download the screensharing application AnyDesk and opened a 
trading account for her. X gained Mrs As trust over a short period of time and persuaded her 
to make payments into the investment to receive higher returns.
Mrs A was presented with a professional trading website that appeared legitimate. 
Mrs A has explained that although she had limited funds, she was persuaded to also take 
money from her childrens savings.
After Mrs A had made several payments as directed by X, she was no longer able to contact 
X and was unable to make a withdrawal.
Mrs A made the following payments into the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
9 September 2021 Coinbase £10 Debit Card
9 September 2021 Coindeck £500 Debit Card
29 September 2021 Coinbase £1,000 Debit Card
8 October 2021 Coinbase £1,000 Debit Card
Unfortunately, Mrs A has been unable to recover any of the funds she sent into the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mrs As complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs A 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mrs A has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mrs A and HSBC sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
HSBC should refund the funds Mrs A lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mrs A made
Mrs A made payments into the scam via her debit card. HSBC was unable to process a 
chargeback for the payments Mrs A made in relation to this scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs A was dealing with X, the person that instigated the scam. But Mrs A didnt make the 
debit card payments to the scammer directly, she paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges. 
HSBC was only able to request chargebacks from the merchant Mrs A paid not X.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mrs As payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, this service was 
provided.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mrs A paid, and any chargeback 
attempt would likely fail.
I have considered if Mrs A should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code does not apply to payments made 
by card. So, Im satisfied the CRM code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments Mrs A made?
Mrs A has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her account with 
HSBC, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mrs A is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The payments Mrs A made in relation to the scam were to new payees she had not 
previously paid, but it wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest HSBC should step in every 
time one of its customers makes a payment to a new business. The value of the payments 
were also not so significant. So, I wouldnt have expected HSBCs fraud prevention systems 
to have been triggered for these reasons.
As I wouldnt have expected HSBCs fraud prevention systems to have been triggered by the 
payments Mrs A made, I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent the scam and it is 
therefore not responsible for her loss.
HSBC has told us that Mrs A would have been presented with a one-time code when she 
processed one of the payments she made, and it has provided evidence of this. Mrs A has 
told us this did not happen. But either way this doesnt change my decision.
Mrs A was aware of the payments as she was making them herself, so whether she had to 
present a one-time code or not for the payment to proceed has no relevance as Mrs A was 
willing to make the payments as directed by X, and the code process was only in place to 
confirm that it was Mrs A making the payments which it was.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman