DRN-3102868
The complaint
Mr C complains that his claim for a collapsed basement wall has been unfairly declined 
under his landlord insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. Mr C is represented by his 
son in the complaint but for ease of reference I will refer to Mr C throughout.
Background and provisional decision
I sent the parties a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint, which is copied below.
Mr C leases out a property to commercial tenants, whose use of the property included part of 
the basement. In August 2019 the rear retaining wall of the unused part of the basement 
collapsed, followed by a full collapse about two months later. This caused damage to the 
public footpath above and services alongside the footpath. The local authority deemed this 
to be a dangerous structure for which repairs and remediation were urgently required. 
Mr C contacted his broker after the initial collapse in August 2019 and the broker liaised with 
AXA. AXA sent its loss adjuster to assess the damage. The loss adjusters preliminary report 
was prepared following a visit in October 2019. 
The loss adjuster said, Theres significant corrosion of the metal fixings and framing beneath the 
pavement lights above, as well as water damage to the ceilings in the [adjoining] rooms indicating 
ingress of water over time from ground level. There also appears to be a historic issue with no, or 
ineffective, tanking to the basement rooms being utilised, with several areas of chalky/flaking and 
peeling paint and some minor rot of low level joinery finishes. The report concludes: From our 
inspection of the premises, there appears to be no evidence of any particular recent event that could 
have caused the collapse of the front wall of the coal cellar, but appears that this may have been 
gradually worsening over time, with the previous bowing / distortion of the wall noted by the tenant 
becoming so significant that it could no longer withhold the pressure of the soil and highway behind.
The loss adjuster wrote to Mr C in October 2019 to decline his claim based on its findings 
that there was no evidence that an insured event had occurred. In December 2019 after the 
wall had collapsed a pipe burst and started to flood the basement of Mr Cs property.
In January 2020 the local authority inspected the site with a structural engineer from D, its 
contractors. D described the basement with masonry retaining wall supporting the footpath 
and said the local authority reported that there had been a significant water leakage taken place 
in the vicinity of the collapsed section of the highway. And that the local authority notified the 
water authority to address the water leakage promptly. And further that, water staining to the 
floorboard was clearly visible from the water ingress scenario. The report also states that the 
leaseholder played a video clip  showing the water ingress through the basement rear retaining 
wall situation, before the collapse. From the video it is observed that the rear retaining wall surface 
had been rendered and left in dilapidated state.  
The report concluded, The collapsed of the property basement masonry retaining wall was due to 
sudden increased lateral pressure exerted to the wall. The increased lateral pressure could arise due 
to increasing ground water table or sudden water pressure due to water mains/fire hydrant pipes 
ruptured. The dilapidated state of the basement [wall] condition with compromised overall structural 
integrity could contribute to the collapse scenario.
The local authority reported, Based on the collapsed nature of the footway sub-strata profiles and 
basement, the likely cause of the [wall] was due to sudden increased lateral earth pressure acting on 
the wall consequence of recent reported water leakage scenario (possibly of water mains/fire 
hydrant pipes ruptured) in the vicinity and compounded by the lack of structural maintenance 
regimes to the vault. The report also found water staining on the floorboards and the 
leaseholders mobile phone footage which it described as clear evidences of water ingress 
scenario. The report found no reported other construction excavation operations in front of the 
property or any major mechanical digging operations.
Mr C thought the local authority and Ds reports showed the wall collapsed due to sudden 
increased pressure likely due to a sudden escape of water such as a burst water main. He 
thought this contradicted the loss adjusters theory that it was due to a gradual deterioration. 
Mr C thought that the damage comes under the term of his insurance policy with AXA. In 
April 2020 Mr Cs leaseholder obtained a professional report from a firm of building experts, 
B. Its findings were; Considering the age of the wall, the Structural Engineers [D] assessment is 
that the failure is attributed to the sudden rise in hydrostatic pressure behind the wall due to a factor 
such as a burst water main. 
AXA re-opened the claim and invited Mr C to provide information to show it was liable for his 
claim, such as evidence of an escape of water. It said the reports dont confirm there had 
been a burst pipe and it hadnt been provided with the leaseholders video. AXA said that D 
noted that the collapse could be due to increasing ground water table or sudden water pressure 
due to water mains/fire hydrant pipes rupture.
 
AXA re-referred the claim to its loss adjusters who reported more fully in April 2020. The loss 
adjusters said the leaseholder told them they first noticed bowing and distortion of the front 
cellar wall several years ago. And the leaseholder told them the local authority was notified but 
nothing was done. The loss adjusters reported; the wall does not appear to be designed as an 
effective retaining wall because it is 225mm thick and retaining approximately 2.5m of soil behind it, 
together with the weight of the pavement and main road. No further information has been made 
available to us to evidence the [water authority] leak. 
AXA said it had obtained information from the water authority on its activities in the area over 
the last two years and this didnt indicate any leaks near Mr Cs property during that period.
Mr C said its possible the pipe that burst in December 2019 had been leaking for months 
before and may have caused sudden pressure on the wall. He said this is in line with B and 
Ds reports. Mr C said they havent got information from the water authority about escapes of 
water and thought it very unlikely they would be able to find such evidence. Mr C said they 
felt strongly that a lack of evidence of an event doesnt invalidate his claim against AXA.
AXA instructed building experts, E to investigate the damage. E reported in October 2020; 
The soil behind the collapsed west wall exhibited a free-standing, nearly vertical face approximately 
where it had contacted the former brick masonry wall. E observed that the brick masonry within 
the debris pile and in the remaining walls exhibited evidence of long-term deterioration that included 
rounded edges, efflorescence, dull and discoloured fracture surfaces, and green biological growth. In 
addition, the render visible on the south return wall was cracked and spalling and large efflorescence 
deposits were observed along the cracked edges. Further, metallic components within or immediately 
surrounding the vault such as pipes, hinges, locksets, etc. exhibited corrosion consistent with long-term moisture infiltration that would have been expected for a subterranean structure of the vaults 
type and vintage.
E further stated, When retaining wall collapses are caused by a sudden increase in loading, such as 
an accumulation of water, the collapse happens suddenly and catastrophically, not incrementally 
over months or years. Incremental distortions and displacements, such as those reported with the 
vaults walls are consistent with long-term progressive deterioration. And further, if the soils behind 
the wall had been saturated to an extent that caused or contributed to the collapse, it would have 
been expected that the resulting soil face would not have been able to support itself in the nearly 
vertical configuration observed and greater undermining than observed of the footpath and roadway 
would have also been expected. E said the water authoritys report didnt show any reported 
leaks near Mr Cs property. 
Subsequently AXA told Mr C theres no evidence of a burst pipe and it doesnt pay claims for 
unexplained losses. It said its loss adjusters and E found the collapse due to long term and 
progressive deterioration. It said the other reports only speculated on the causes. It said the 
claim didnt fall within the escape of water or accidental damage perils and it was declining 
the claim. AXA said it had reasonably investigated the claim and hadnt caused delays.
 
Since Mr C didnt agree, he brought his complaint to our service. Mr C also instructed a 
specialist maintenance company, R to consider the repairs. In its report R stated there is a, 
high probability that the collapse is due to a burst water main.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the loss adjusters hadnt 
found evidence of a cause and thought the wall had just worsened over time, but B and R 
thought a burst water main might be the cause. She said Ds engineer gave two possible 
causes of the walls collapse, increasing ground water table or sudden water pressure due to 
rupture of water mains or fire hydrant pipes. She said E said the cause was gradual damage. 
The investigator thought there was no evidence of how the wall collapsed but said that the 
reports from D, B and R gave the same possible reason and so AXA should accept the 
claim. She said the water authoritys information about its activities was inconclusive. She 
said AXA should pay Mr C £100 compensation for poor communications and £250 for 
prematurely declining the claim before it gathered all of the relevant information. 
Mr C agreed with the investigators findings, but AXA did not. AXA said the investigator had 
made a decision without any critical analysis of the expert reports, or that the only evidence 
of water ingress was in December 2019 (from a video taken by the tenants) five months after 
the initial collapse and two months after the second collapse. If water had caused the 
collapse, AXA thought water ingress would have occurred immediately afterwards. 
 
AXA said Mr Cs reports pre-date the water authoritys confirmation there had been no burst 
water main for two years prior to the first collapse. AXA thought neither B or D would have 
reached their conclusions had they known this. It said it was only in December 2019 that 
water ingress was identified, and this was likely due to a rise in the water table as alluded to 
by Ds report. And this type of damage isnt covered under a buildings insurance policy. AXA 
thought it likely that the water ingress post-collapse caused the moist soil identified in Bs 
report, but said Bs report contains no analysis of events and its findings arent explained by 
reference to photos of the initial collapse when the soil and brickwork is seen to be dry. 
      
AXA said the local authority showed a leak had been repaired in the road but not in close 
proximity to Mr Cs property and was after the wall collapsed. AXA said any leak would have 
had to have been extensive to have caused the collapse and it isnt plausible that damage 
would not have been caused to other properties in the area, but theres no evidence of this.  
Photos of the damage in July 2019 show no evidence of water ingress and show the wall 
and debris are dry, AXA said. It thought the investigator ignored this and Mr Cs tenants 
comments that over a period of several years prior to the collapse, the basement wall had 
been gradually bowing and deforming. AXA also said that Mr C should have notified the 
claim when the wall first collapsed in July 2019. It said if there had been an escape of water 
at that time a claim would have been notified as the tenants couldnt have continued their 
business in the basement of the insured property.
According to AXA the only report after all information was available, and which explains its 
findings, is Es report. And Es report explains why the cause of collapse hypothesised by 
others is inconsistent with the facts. AXA said Es report confirms that the deteriorated brick 
masonry, efflorescence, and metal corrosion indicate moisture infiltration for a long period 
and the incremental nature of the collapse is not indicative of a collapse as a result of a 
sudden accumulation of water.
AXA said theres no reports or photos of silty, gravelly mud within the basement which would 
be expected with an accumulation of water. And E said that after the initial collapse photos, 
show significant cracking to the wall that would not have allowed water to accumulate to an extent 
that could have caused additional lateral loading failure. AXA said Bs desktop study was based 
on an inaccurate assumption of a rigidly acting wall-foundation system, but E found solid 
masonry units consistent with unreinforced masonry construction. AXA said E concluded the 
wall collapsed due to long standing and progressive deterioration of the masonry, not an 
escape of water. AXA agreed and said its firmly of the view the damage wasnt due to 
accidental damage or an escape of water and so the claim isnt covered. 
my findings
Mr Cs claim is for largescale repairs to his basement and includes damage to local authority 
property. The claim has been complex, and costly, involving many parties including the local 
authority and water authority. I sympathise with Mr C for the damage suffered by his property 
and the expense hes already faced.
Mr C says his basement wall collapsed due to external pressure, as indicated in two expert 
reports. AXA said the collapse was due to long term progressive deterioration as indicated in 
its expert reports. We arent experts in building engineering, and we rely upon the expert 
evidence available and what we think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. 
So, in order to reach a decision, I have carefully considered all of the expert reports. But 
firstly, I have considered what Mr Cs policy requires of him to have his claim accepted. It is 
a policyholders responsibility to show the cause of damage claimed and that the damage 
falls within the terms of a peril covered by the policy. There are two potential perils in this 
scenario, and they are an escape of water, or accidental damage.
The policy covers, Escape of water from any tank, apparatus, pipe or sprinkler installation. 
Damage from a gradually operating cause, wear and tear and a rise in the water table are 
excluded.
Mr Cs policy covers Accidental Damage. This includes any other damage not set out within 
the specified perils so long as it doesnt result from: wear and tear  damage to property 
caused by or consisting of inherent fault or defect, undiscovered defect, gradual deterioration, frost, 
change in water table level, faulty or defective design or materials, the collapse or cracking of 
buildings.The exclusion part of the Accidental Damage peril rules out a claim involving a collapse 
within the building and cracking and so I dont think this applies. And so, I have concentrated 
on the cover for an escape of water. This would include a burst water main, which Mr C has 
suggested as the cause of the damage to his wall. AXA said any suggestion of a burst pipe 
as the cause of the collapse needed to be validated for recovery from the water authority. 
Mr C said hes been advised that walls do not just collapse  an external force has to be at 
play. I understand his view about this and Im sure hes correct, but unfortunately not all 
external forces are covered by his policy. Those that occur gradually due to deterioration and 
wear and tear arent covered, nor where its due to a gradual rise in the water table. And so, it 
remains Mr Cs responsibility to show evidence of the external force and AXAs responsibility 
to show that this falls within the policy exclusions just mentioned.
I realise it will be extremely disappointing to Mr C, but I dont think the expert evidence 
shows that a burst water pipe caused the collapse of his wall, or that the cause was another 
insured event. The reports in favour of the burst pipe scenario appear to be speculative. 
Mr C said his tenants phone video shows the water ingress through the basement wall 
before the collapse. He said this supports the findings of both the local authoritys and Ds 
reports, that the collapse is attributed to the sudden rise in hydrostatic pressure behind the 
wall due to a factor such as a burst water main. Mr C said its extremely unlikely he would be 
able to obtain evidence of a burst water main, but that doesnt invalidate his claim.
D stated that the leaseholder played a video clip  showing the water ingress through the 
basement rear retaining wall situation, before the collapse. Unfortunately, the video was deleted 
before it was shown to AXA or ourselves. If I accept what D says about the video I also have 
to accept its comment that it shows, that the rear retaining wall surface had been rendered and 
left in dilapidated state.
D also said the local authority reported that there had been a significant water leakage taken 
place in the vicinity of the collapsed section of the highway. But the local authority said, the likely 
causewas due to sudden increased lateral earth pressure acting on the wall consequence of recent 
reported water leakage scenario (possibly of water mains/fire hydrant pipes rupture) in the vicinity 
and compounded by the lack of structural maintenance regimes to the vault.
D also stated that, water staining to the floorboard was clearly visible from the water ingress 
scenario. Ds reports conclusion includes, sudden increased lateral pressure exerted to the wall 
which the policy would cover, and increasing ground water table which it would not.
  
Unfortunately for Mr C there is no evidence of a recent reported water leakage, and the water 
authoritys information disclosure shows there was no record of such an event. It appears to 
me that D and the local authority were speculating about an event that hasnt been shown to 
have taken place. And the damage they have mentioned is likely to be due to the gradual 
deterioration of the wall.
B reported Ds findings and conducted a desktop analysis on an escape of water scenario. 
However, in the absence of such evidence the analysis would be of very limited value. AXA 
also said the analysis assumes a rigidly acting retaining wall-foundation system that renders 
their analyses not representative of the conditions at the time of the collapse. It said Es report 
shows the construction to be of solid brick masonry components and not as B described.
Mr Cs report from R stated there is a, high probability that the collapse is due to a burst water 
main. But the report is concerned with repairs and offers no information or evidence in 
support of this contention.AXAs loss adjusters found, no evidence of any particular recent event that could have caused the 
collapse of the front wall of the coal cellar, but appears that this may have been gradually worsening 
over time. E concluded that the basement walls failed due to long-term and progressive 
deterioration of the brick masonry and not from a sudden escape of water resulting in 
additional lateral pressure. E observed the deteriorated brick masonry, efflorescence, and metal 
corrosion indicate that moisture had been infiltrating into the basement for a period of time. 
Es evidence appears to me to be the most detailed of all the reports. E had the benefit of 
the other reports and the information from the water authority concerning the lack of an 
escape of water. Es observations are consistent with long-term and progressive 
deterioration of the wall rather than a sudden collapse and appear to be the most credible.
 
Mr C said its possible the pipe that burst in December 2019 had been leaking for months 
before and may have caused sudden pressure on the wall. B said, previously retained soil 
could be observed to be moist and said the wall is stable under moist but not saturated 
conditions. This doesnt seem to support its subsequent finding that the wall had most 
probably collapsed due to the hydrostatic pressure applied behind the wall (saturated soil condition). 
Although moisture appears to have corroded metal fixings over time, an escape of water 
appears unlikely given the reported relative dryness of the debris. I think Es finding about 
this is persuasive: if the soils behind the wall had been saturated to an extent that caused or 
contributed to the collapse, it would have been expected that the resulting soil face would not have 
been able to support itself in the nearly vertical configuration observed and greater undermining 
than observed of the footpath and roadway would have also been expected.
The basement wall appears to have been well over 100 years old and theres no evidence 
from Mr C of an assessment of its structural soundness or maintenance over the years. The 
wall is situated below local authority property and the local authority commented on the lack 
of structural maintenance regimes to the vault. D also reported on, The dilapidated state of the 
basement [wall] condition with compromised overall structural integrity could contribute to the 
collapse scenario. And E said, the brick masonry within the debris pile and in the remaining walls 
exhibited evidence of long-term deterioration. Anecdotal evidence suggests the walls condition 
had previously been of concern to the leaseholder and reported to the local authority. 
I dont think that analysis of the reports and photos provides adequate evidence on which to 
base a conclusion that the collapse was caused by a sudden escape of water or other utility 
work. This is not only because the actual event of an escape of water hasnt been found but 
because of the absence of water associated with each collapse. I find AXAs explanation 
more credible based on the evidence, that the collapse was inevitable following a prolonged 
period during which the basement wall gradually bowed and deformed.
Consequently, I am currently of the view that the collapse of Mr Cs basement wall was not 
due to an escape of water, or accidental damage. I think it likely to have been due to gradual 
deterioration and in common with other insurance policies, this isnt covered by Mr Cs 
policy. And it follows that I think it was fair for AXA to decline Mr Cs claim.
AXA said Mr C hadnt complied with the policy condition requiring policyholders to notify as 
soon as practical any circumstances which might lead to a claim and give all the information 
requested. I think Mr C did speak to his broker about the initial collapse of his wall in July 
2019 and the local authority and I dont think hes failed to meet this requirement. Having considered AXAs handling of Mr Cs claim I agree with the investigator that it would 
be fair for AXA to pay Mr C £100 compensation for its poor communications and £250 for 
prematurely declining the claim before it gathered all of the relevant information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the claim part of the complaint should not be 
upheld. I realise the significance of this for Mr C, but I think this is fair and I hope he will 
understand my reasons.
In response to my provisional decision, AXA agreed with my decision about the claim as a 
whole. However, AXA said its view was that the loss adjuster hadnt prematurely repudiated 
the claim and it queried the £250 compensation I suggested in relation to this. AXA said it 
was comfortable with the decision to pay Mr C £100 compensation for its poor 
communications.
Mr C responded that his leaseholder of the insured premises feels the water authority did not 
disclose all the relevant information in the early phase of the investigation; and is keen for 
the additional evidence they have obtained from the water authority to be considered before 
a final decision is made. Mr C attached an email from the leaseholder which provided details 
of leaks in the same road as Mr Cs insured premises and the leaseholder said, note that 
one repair wasn't repaired until a whole year later. This additional information only 
strengthens what the structural engineers have said and found.  
I have looked at this information about two leaks from the water authority, provided by the 
leaseholder. One is already included within the original list provided by the water authority 
and considered by the investigator and myself before I sent the provisional decision. 
Unfortunately, neither of the leaks are sufficiently near to the insured premises to be 
reasonably considered as a potential cause of the basement wall collapse. 
This means there is still a lack of evidence to suggest that the collapse of the basement wall 
was a sudden and unforeseen event as required by Mr Cs policy. And so, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to require AXA to accept liability for the claim. I remain of the view that the 
damage is most likely to be due to the gradual deterioration of the wall and I think that is 
supported by the most credible expert evidence as set out above.
Although its the policyholders responsibility to prove their claim, it is the insurers 
responsibility to progress or close a claim. From what I have seen I think the initial decision 
to close the claim was taken prematurely and I remain of the view that AXA should pay Mr C 
£250 compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and within my provisional decision the complaint is upheld 
in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr C £100 compensation for its poor 
communications and £250 for prematurely declining his claim. I do not require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to take any further action concerning Mr Cs claim.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman