DRN-4469659
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that the offer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited made to settle 
their motor insurance claim is too low.
What happened
Mrs and Mr W had a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Admiral.
In January 2023, their vehicle was stolen, and they made a claim on their policy. Admiral 
offered to settle the claim on the basis that their vehicle was worth £17,450 on the day it was 
stolen. Mrs and Mr W did not accept that valuation and so they complained to Admiral.
In response, Admiral said that in making its settlement offer, it had consulted two valuation 
guides. It thought its valuation was fair but said there had been some administrative delays. 
It offered to pay £50 to Mrs and Mr W to compensate them for those delays.
Mrs and Mr W did not agree with what Admiral said and so they complained to this service. 
They said Admirals valuation was too low and they sent a number of adverts for cars similar 
to theirs. They told us that Admiral had delayed dealing with their claim, which caused them 
stress and anxiety.
Our investigator consulted three valuation guides and the resulting valuations were: £16,792 
(Guide 1); £17,650 (Guide 2); and £27,315 (Guide 3). She was unable to get a valuation 
from a fourth guide. Our investigator thought the valuation suggested by Guide 3 should be 
disregarded because it was not in line with Guides 1 and 2. She thought Admirals offer to 
settle the claim was fair as it was within the range of the valuations suggested by Guides 1 
and 2.
Mrs and Mr W did not accept that view. They said our investigator should have considered 
Guide 3 because the valuation from this guide was in line with the adverts theyd found. As 
Mrs and Mr W did not accept what our investigator said, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision because I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said: 
As things stand, I intend to find that a fair valuation of Mrs and Mr Ws car on the day 
it was stolen is £27,315. Ill explain why.
In circumstances like this where a vehicle has been lost to theft, Mrs and Mr Ws 
policy says Admiral will pay the market value of the car less the policys excess. The 
policy defines market value and says that it is based on research from industry 
recognised motor trade guides.
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service 
often finds valuation guides persuasive. Thats because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss.
In this case, I can see Admiral consulted two valuation guides and based its valuation 
on the higher of those two guides. These valuations were similar to those found by 
our investigator for Guides 1 and 2. However, I dont think that approach leads to a 
fair outcome here.
When our investigator consulted Guide 3, the suggested value was significantly 
higher than that suggested by Guides 1 and 2. Mrs and Mr W also sent us several 
adverts for cars similar to theirs and said these adverts were more in line with the 
valuation in Guide 3.
I have carefully considered the two batches of adverts Mrs and Mr W sent to us. The 
first batch was obtained shortly after the vehicle was stolen. The second batch is 
from July 2023 - I havent given significant weight to this batch because the adverts 
were obtained some considerable time after the vehicle was stolen. But I have taken 
account of the first batch that were obtained shortly after the vehicle was stolen.
Of those adverts, I have disregarded two very high valuations for bespoke vehicles. 
The remaining advertised prices range from £29,750 to £36,250. Most of the vehicles 
have lower mileage than Mrs and Mr Ws. But the vehicle with the most comparable 
miles on the clock is a year younger than Mrs and Mr Ws with an asking price of 
£30,594.
I can see Guide 3 also took account of a range of adverts. The price for the vehicle of 
a similar age with the closest (albeit lower) mileage to Mrs and Mr Ws is £29,995. I 
have not seen a vehicle with similar mileage to Mrs and Mr Ws advertised at all 
close to the valuation Admiral offered to settle the claim.
With that in mind and putting all the evidence together in this case, I am provisionally 
satisfied that the higher valuation as shown in Guide 3 is more likely to represent a 
fair valuation of Mrs and Mr Ws car on the day it was stolen. That means I intend to 
tell Admiral to settle Mrs and Mr Ws claim on the basis that their car was worth 
£27,315 on the day it was stolen.
Admiral offered to pay £50 to Mrs and Mr W for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced because of Admirals poor communication. I can see that it did take 
some time for Admiral to deal with Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. And I understand that 
Mrs and Mr W were anxious about the outcome of their complaint, particularly 
considering how much was involved in the dispute. In my provisional view, it will be 
fair for Admiral to pay £150 to Mrs and Mr W to compensate them for the distress 
and inconvenience they were caused here.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 15 November 2023 before I issued a final decision. Mrs and Mr W said they 
agreed with my provisional decision. Admiral said it did not accept my provisional decision, 
but it did not provide me with any further information to consider. It did request a copy of the 
Guide 3 valuation and a copy of that will be sent separately to this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any further information or evidence to consider in this case, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I 
uphold this complaint and require Admiral to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to: 
Settle Mrs and Mr Ws claim based on a valuation of £27,315.
Pay simple interest on the difference between any initial settlement and the final settlement. The rate of interest is 8% per year and it is to be paid from the date of the 
initial settlement up to the date the claim is finally settled.
Pay £150 to Mrs and Mr W for the distress and inconvenience identified above. If 
Admiral has already paid £50 to Mrs and Mr W, it can deduct that amount from the 
amount it will now owe.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right 
as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman