DRN-4183578
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Klarna Bank AB (publ) has administered her payment card 
account. 
What happened
Miss C applied for a Klarna card which was linked to her Klarna account. Klarna provided 
Miss C with an indicative purchase power which it says showed how much she could 
hypothetically borrow using the card. Each transaction made using the card was to be repaid 
in interest free instalments.
Miss C contacted Klarna to ask it to reduce her purchase power. Klarna responded to say 
that it couldnt reduce the purchase power assigned to her account. Miss C then said that 
she was concerned that having a large purchase power might cause her to fall into debt. She 
said that if Klarna couldnt reduce the purchase power she would like to close the account. 
She asked to raise a complaint. 
Klarna didnt uphold her complaint. It said this was because the purchase power wasnt a 
credit limit like on a credit card, it was just an indication of how much she might be able to 
spend. It said there was no guarantee she could borrow up to that amount. It said every time 
she attempted a purchase using the card, Klarna would assess each transaction separately 
for affordability irrespective of the indicative purchase power. However, it said that if Miss C 
was concerned about her spending, she could cancel the card altogether and it explained to 
her how she could do that. 
Miss C didnt cancel the card and continued to make purchases on her account. Klarna has 
said it has since suspended Miss Cs ability to make further purchases due to repayment 
difficulties on the outstanding debts. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. However, Miss C didnt agree 
with that outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Cs complaint is that Klarna didnt do enough to support her when she was 
struggling financially. She says that it allowed her to accrue more debt despite her asking it 
to limit her ability to spend.
Ive reviewed the copies of the communications Miss C had with Klarna. Having done so, 
I dont think Klarna acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C. 
I say this because in Miss Cs initial messages to Klarna I dont think it was clear she was in 
financial difficulty. Her request was simply to reduce her credit limit (purchase power) with no 
context for why this was. When Klarna said it couldnt reduce the purchase power Miss C 
then said:
So how do I close my account? Or raise a complaint as I feel like having a large 
amount of credit available I could fall into debt so to prevent that I would like to either 
decrease it or close the account and just pay off what is remaining when needed.
While Miss C did then provide clarity about why she was making the request, I dont think 
there was anything within this message or Miss Cs account activity that suggested she was 
currently in financial difficulty. It seems Miss C was looking at ways to prevent any potential 
spending in the future and she suggested she had the means to pay off what she currently 
owed. Klarna logged this as a complaint and responded to it 11 days later and told her how 
she could close her account as it was unable to reduce the purchase power. 
So, Klarna had given her a way to close the account as she had requested. In those 
intervening 11 days, Miss C had made only two purchases using her Klarna card totalling 
just under £150. Miss C made no further purchases until around two weeks after Klarna sent 
its complaint response to her. As Miss C had requested details on how to close her account 
and Klarna had supplied that, and there didnt appear to be any other signs of financial 
difficulty, I dont think Klarna needed to do more than it did.
As Miss C didnt close her account, I dont think Klarna can reasonably be held responsible 
for the further spending Miss C carried out. I note that when Miss C did fall into financial 
difficulty much later, Klarna did step in and suspended her ability to make further purchases, 
it also offered her a payment break to assist her. I think that was a reasonable response at 
that stage. I therefore dont think it needs to do anything more to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman