DRN-3923529
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2015, Miss B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Miss B decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In March 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss Bs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Miss B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments;
the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan and would not cost her 
anything;
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000); and
although the cash price of the panels, given in the quote, was £8,468, the interest on 
the loan meant that the system actually cost Miss B £16,556.40.
The CMC also said that P had failed to provide Miss B with information about the cooling-off 
period, and had damaged her roof tiles during installation.
Shawbrook did not uphold Miss Bs claim, and so she instructed the CMC to refer a 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the quotation was on the whole not clear, and the only clear page (page 2) said that 
the system would pay for itself in ten years (whereas it will actually take 20);
P had been a member of RECC, and in 2013 a RECC compliance panel had found a 
number of breaches of its code by P.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Miss B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss B could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss B 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss B says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Miss Bs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Miss B, explaining any benefits of the system, 
prior to her agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Miss Bs 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I dont agree that the quote is unclear. I think it sets out the pertinent information in a clear 
and accessible manner. I will elaborate on this below.
I dont think that the findings of the RECC compliance panel in 2013 assist me in deciding 
whether P misled its customers in 2015. I have focused on the evidence of what Miss B was 
told at the point of sale  her recollection, and the documents described above.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Miss B was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £8,468 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £16,556.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Miss Bs recollections, Im satisfied that she 
was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, each made it clear that it would cost Miss B more than the cash price as 
she had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Damaged tiles
No evidence appears to have been provided about the alleged damage, so I think that 
Shawbrook was entitled to reject that part of the claim.
FIT payments and savings
Miss B has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Miss Bs recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period. I think that the first of these tables is clear that 
Miss B could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £334.78.
Averaged out over 20 years, the annual income is £461.43.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss B could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings are £254.77 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Miss B, the combined income and savings in year one are shown 
as £722.88. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of £60.24. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £90.48. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that Miss B was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £90.48. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £91.98, but the difference  £1.50  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first seven years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough 
money to cover the loan payments until year eight.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Miss Bs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of 
the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, on page 6 of the quote, which plainly showed that 
the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss B that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.50 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Miss B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
Page 2 of the quote, titled Key Facts, states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Miss B could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
This figure also appears in the Putting it all together section, next to two other figures which 
expressly exclude the cost of the finance. So I think it would have been clear that the ten-
year payback time refers to the cash price, not the cost of the finance.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year ten the overall benefits that Miss B could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £16,556, 
would be reached by the end of year 15.
So as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss B that the system would pay for its 
cash price in ten years, and for the loan in about 15 years, as supported by the graph above, 
which was included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied 
that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a 
loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 20 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Miss B.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,181 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Miss Bs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, 
has generated 2,923 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point 
of sale  134%  so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of 
energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Miss B has not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Miss B hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss B could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss B entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Miss B that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell her during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but 
that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman