DRN-3485426
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a mortgage he holds with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). 
He wasnt satisfied with the results of desk-top valuation that was done on his property 
when he wanted a new interest rate product, as it didnt allow him to have the product he 
wanted. He was eventually able to have the product he wanted, but he had to pay for a 
physical valuation in order to obtain it. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mr C would like TMW to reimburse the valuation cost. He 
would also like an additional payment of between £500 and £750 for the upset and 
inconvenience he was caused.
What happened
In mid-2021 Mr C wanted to add a new interest rate product to his existing mortgage with 
TMW.  In order to determine which interest rate products he qualified for, the loan-to-value 
(LTV) on his property needed to be established. As such, a desk-top estimate of the value 
of his home was produced. It was based on the value of the property last time it was 
physically valued and a current figure was extrapolated using information about recent sales 
of similar properties in the same area. This showed that the property was likely to be worth 
just over £403,000, which meant that the LTV was around 69%. This meant that Mr C was 
eligible for products from the up to 75% LTV options.
Mr C didnt accept the figure that had been calculated as he believed his property was worth 
around £550,000. Mr C was told by TMW that he could either pay for a physical valuation of 
the property, accept a product from the range he was eligible for or reduce the balance of 
the mortgage so that the LTV was 65%. Mr C opted to pay for a valuation, which resulted in 
the property being valued at £450,000. 
The new valuation allowed Mr C to access the interest rate product he wanted, and it was 
attached to his mortgage before it reverted to TMWs standard variable rate. Mr C 
complained about this process; believing that TMW had manufactured the first valuation in 
order to be able to charge him a valuation fee. He asked that TMW refund that fee.
TMW responded to Mr Cs complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It was 
satisfied that it had followed its procedures correctly and, as a valuation had been 
completed, it wouldnt be appropriate to refund the fee. It did, however, explain that the value 
of Mr Cs property had likely been affected by the high number of properties, similar to his, 
that had been sold in his area around the time his property was valued.
Mr C was unhappy with TMWs response and referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and it was decided, as agreement couldnt 
be reached, that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly set out some background and explain that when a customer of a lender wants 
something, be that a mortgage, further borrowing or an interest rate product, the lender will 
assess whether to provide the requested facility. A key factor of the decision-making process 
for a lender is the value of the property being, or already, mortgaged. The lower the LTV, the 
lower risk a mortgage represents to the lender. This lower risk will often then result in lower 
interest rates being available to be attached to the borrowing.
The most reliable way of valuing a property is a physical valuation, although even that is not 
always perfect, as a property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it. However, a 
physical valuation has a cost associated with it because the surveyor, which is almost 
always independent of the lender, has to be paid. The borrower will traditionally pay 
valuation costs, as it is the borrower who wants the facility that requires the valuation and, 
therefore, has the obligation to prove the propertys worth to the lender taking the risk of the 
transaction. 
That said, when it comes to an application for a new fixed rate, the cost of a physical 
valuation can be prohibitive, especially for smaller mortgages, as the amount the interest 
rate product could save the borrower could be significantly eroded, or negated completely, 
by the cost of a physical valuation. In addition, physical valuations can take weeks to be 
completed, which could cause delays in interest rate products being attached to mortgages.
As such, lenders will usually offer a new product based on some sort of desk-top valuation, 
which is typically produced by a computer programme/system using data about property 
prices, at no cost to the borrower. These systems produce estimated values and usually rely 
on a previous physical valuation as a starting point. We dont consider that its unreasonable 
for a lender to rely on valuations produced in this way, as long as the lender has an appeal 
process if a consumer is unhappy with the estimated value. TMW has an appeals process 
and this meant that it gave Mr C the option to have a physical valuation completed. I 
consider that it treated him fairly in doing so.
Mr C believes that TMW artificially down-valued the desk-top valuation in order to be able to 
charge him a valuation fee. I have seen no evidence that is the case. In addition, TMW 
passed the valuation fee on to the surveying business that does the valuation, so there is no 
financial benefit to TMW. 
While Mr C thinks that TMW should pay for the valuation because the desk-top valuation 
was wrong, I dont agree. If Mr M believed that the estimated valuation was wrong, it was for 
him to evidence that and bear the cost of doing so.
Although I know that Mr C will not be happy with my conclusions, I am satisfied that TMW 
acted reasonably in relation to the valuation of his property for the purposes of him obtaining 
a new interest rate product. It offered Mr C the same options as its other customers in the 
same position. As such, I cant find that it treated him unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
15 July 2022.
 Derry Baxter
Ombudsman