DRN-4061016
The complaint
Mr K complains that Creation Financial Services Limited, who Ill call Creation, didnt 
uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I dont think Creation have been unreasonable here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of credit, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
So, if there was evidence the wardrobes were not fitted with reasonable care and skill Id 
think there had been a breach of contract, and its likely Id think Creation had been 
unreasonable to reject Mr Ks section 75 claim.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) also says that the goods should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, if I was satisfied the 
wardrobes werent of satisfactory quality Id again think there had been a breach of contract 
and Id ask Creation to put things right for Mr K.
Mr K referred his complaint to the Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsman. It was 
their view that:
the nature of the issues raised would not be of sufficient level to warrant financial 
entitlement. In the absence of evidenced loss, compensatory entitlement is limited.
Im persuaded by their expert view that is the case, and having reviewed the various 
photographs, email, and WhatsApp messages provided by Mr K, Im afraid I dont find those 
adequately demonstrate that there has been a breach of contract, that hasnt been 
sufficiently remedied. 
I dont therefore think Creation have been unreasonable to reject Mr Ks section 75 claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman