DRN-4066270
The complaint
Ms B complains about a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement taken with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Seat Financial Services (VWFS).
What happened
Ms B acquired a new car in September 2021 from a main dealer. The car cost £30,444. Ms 
B paid an advance payment of £8,699 and was due to make repayments over 36 months. In 
January 2022 the agreement was paid off and settled.
Unfortunately, Ms B says she began to have issues with the car. In June 2022 it was 
returned to the dealer for a repair to the boot struts. And in August 2022 software updates 
were done to rectify an issue with an SOS fault and the automatic cruise control. The 
mileage was noted as 864 and 960 at these points.
Ms B complained to VWFS in September 2022 and said the car still had issues. The same 
month, the car was returned to the dealer as Ms B said the boot wouldnt open, an SOS 
button wasnt working, the front assist warning was flashing up and the car had issues with 
the infotainment system.
Ms B says the dealer had the car for around seven days, but it said it didnt find a fault with 
it. 
VWFS issued its final response in October 2022. It said, in summary, that due to the time 
that had passed, it didnt think any issues Ms B complained about were present or 
developing when she was supplied with the car. 
Ms B remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. She said, in summary, 
that the car had issues with warning lights, the front assist system, the boot wouldnt open 
and that the auto hold had issues. Ms B also said she wanted the figures from the finance 
to be checked.
An investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that 
he thought the car had issues with the boot struts that were likely present at the point of 
supply. But, he thought the other issues were not likely present when Ms B got the car. Our 
investigator concluded that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms 
B, but he thought the boot strut issue was repaired and so VWFS didnt need to do anything 
further.
Ms B replied and, in summary, said shed provided enough to show all of the issues were 
present. She sent in further evidence, including photos, videos and a recording she says 
was from when the dealer returned the car to her. And she said her point about the finance 
figures hadnt been addressed.
Our investigator replied and said the information didnt change his mind. And he said he 
hadnt seen any issues with the figures Ms B was given.
Ms B remained unhappy. She sent some further details including an invoice for a diagnostic 
from a garage. This noted issues with the rear tailgate, touchscreen infotainment, front 
assist and dash warning lights. This was dated 23 March 2023 and the mileage noted as 
1,542.
Our investigator explained having considered everything Ms B had supplied, his opinion 
hadnt changed. Ms B remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I should begin by explaining to Ms B, and VWFS, that Im not going to comment on every 
piece of evidence Ms B has provided nor every point shes raised. Instead, as Ive done in 
the history above, Im going to focus on what I think are the key facts and the crux of Ms Bs 
complaint. Where I havent mentioned something, I want to reassure both parties that this 
doesnt mean I havent considered it, nor that I think it unimportant. Ive reviewed all of the 
evidence on the case, and my approach here reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ms B complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this one as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied 
I can consider Ms Bs complaint against VWFS.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  VWFS here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description.
So, Ill consider that Ms Bs car cost over £30,000 and was brand new. I think a reasonable 
person wouldve expected it to have been in great condition and free from even minor faults. 
And I think theyd expect trouble free motoring for a significant amount of time.
What I need to decide here is whether Ms Bs car was of satisfactory quality or not. Ill firstly 
consider the initial faults Ms B complained about.
Ive reviewed Ms Bs testimony here and the Vehicle history provided by VWFS. This 
records, in June 2022:
confirm boot lid difficult to open and intermittently closes on its own
both struts were replaced and boot tested again, now working correctly
The vehicle history from August 2022 in relation to the automatic cruise control records:
I checked the customers concern with the ACC issue. I confirm the fault on road test with 
the customer
I have updated the (software), erased fault codes and tested  all okIn relation to an SOS fault appearing on the dash, the history explains:
I can confirm the fault
I carried out the update changing the (software version), erased the faults and retested all 
okay
Thinking about this, I think its quite clear the car initially had the faults Ms B complained 
about. And I disagree with VWFSs response that it isnt responsible here. 
The CRA specifically states that durability should be considered as part of satisfactory 
quality. Even if I accepted VWFS view that these faults werent present at the point of 
supply, I dont think a reasonable person would expect a brand new car to have these issues 
when it did. It follows that I think a reasonable person would not consider the car to have 
been durable, and so Im satisfied it was not of satisfactory quality when Ms B got it.
That being said, Im also satisfied that the faults were rectified from the above information. I 
say this as the vehicle history specifically states the car was tested after the repair and 
software updates and there were no issues.
Thinking about Ms Bs rights under the CRA, given the car was of unsatisfactory quality, she 
had a right for the supplier to repair the problems. Im satisfied this is what happened here. 
So, Ms Bs rights under the CRA were broadly met.
I then need to consider the later problems Ms B complains about, and whether any of the 
above issues reoccurred.
Ive thought about the evidence about the later issues Ms B says the car had.
Ms B has provided a recording of when the car was returned to her from the dealer. I should 
say that I think a court may question the validity of this evidence. I say this as Im not sure if 
Ms B had permission to record the conversation, and I think its clear the recording has been 
edited by her. I say this as there are gaps in the conversation, and she appears to have 
added a voiceover in parts with her thoughts. However, as an informal service I think I can 
take this into account as its quite a persuasive piece of evidence that contains a lot of detail.
The recording is over an hour long and I think it is from early October 2022. The recording is 
of, I believe, a conversation between Ms B and the workshop manager from the main dealer.
Given the length of the call, I wont explain everything discussed here. But I will summarise 
some key points.
Its explained to Ms B that the car was kept for a week by the dealer to make sure it was 
thoroughly tested. The staff member said this was because Ms B had complained about 
intermittent issues, and the dealer wanted the car for long enough to see if anything was 
wrong. 
Its explained to Ms B  the car was worked on by a master technician, various diagnostics 
were carried out, all software was checked on the car, extensive visual checks were done 
and the car was road tested on several occasions. 
Several things are demonstrated to Ms B. The boot is opened and can be heard to work first 
time without issue. The staff member explains this has happened every time the boot has 
been tried. The infotainment system and climate control unit are used with Ms B present, again without fault first time. Its explained no warning lights are on. And its explained the 
auto hold system worked when the car was test driven.
In summary, its clearly explained on multiple occasions that the workshop manager and 
master technician believed there was nothing wrong with the car and it was performing as it 
should.
Ive then considered the diagnostic Ms B supplied dated 23 March 2023 from a third party 
garage. This notes under customer advisories:
Rear Tailgate Not Opening & Closing  Possible Actuator
Touchscreen Information System  Touch Screen Not Functioning  Intermittent  Screen 
Freeze
Front Assist  Non Functioning
Dash Warning Lights  Intermittent
The first thing to note here is that because the above is written under customer advisories, 
it isnt clear if this is what the garage diagnosed, or what Ms B told it were the issues with the 
car. 
Ive considered that what Ive set out above is all of the commentary the diagnostic contains. 
It doesnt explain what the garage did to the car, whether it test drove it, under what 
conditions these issues were observed etc. Given the testing that would likely be involved in 
finding fault with a system like the front assist, I might have expected to see some more 
information if the garage confirmed these issues.
Ive thought carefully about this. And I accept, given these seem to possibly be intermittent 
faults, it is possible that all of the faults went away for seven days when the dealer tested the 
car, and then all came back on the, presumably single, occasion that the third party garage 
looked at it. But, I need to think about what most likely is the case here. And this doesnt 
seem very plausible to me.
I also need to think here about who is the most qualified to diagnose any issues with the car. 
The recording confirms a master technician from the main dealer worked on Ms Bs car and 
it was then demonstrated to her by the workshop manager. While I am not questioning the 
ability of the third party garage that Ms B took the car to, I think its most likely the main 
dealers workshop were the most experienced with this make and model.
So, considering all of this, Im more persuaded by the fact that the dealer couldnt find fault 
with the car than the very limited information in the diagnostic Ms B provided.
Ive also thought about the fact that Ms B clearly doesnt accept that no work was done on 
the car for the week the manufacturers garage had it. But, even shes right here, given 
everything was demonstrated to be working, this would mean the issues were repaired. So, 
as earlier, her rights under the CRA wouldve been met.
Ive considered the photos Ms B sent in. I accept these do show warning lights. But some of 
these are the car alerting Ms B to other warnings which cant be seen in the photos. One 
appears to show a seatbelt warning, where the car is stationary and the door open. And 
overall, Ive seen very little context or information about the photos. Taking everything into 
account, these photos dont persuade me there was a fault with the car.
Ive also carefully considered the videos Ms B sent in where she appears not to be able to 
open the boot. I can appreciate her frustration here. But its difficult, without seeing things 
first hand, to know exactly what is happening. And I need to weigh this up against the fact the workshop manager was able to open the boot, first time, in front on Ms B after explaining 
it had been tested for several days without fault and no work had been done on it. Thinking 
about everything, this isnt enough, on balance, to change my opinion.
In summary, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely the car had the ongoing 
faults Ms B complained about since the initial repairs took place in June and August 2022. It 
follows this means, following these repairs, Im not persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
In relation to the finance figures, Ms B has asked that these are reviewed. And I can see 
she asked VWFS about this. But, I should explain it isnt my role to calculate or double check 
figures for Ms B. Theres very limited information here, for instance Ms B hasnt provided 
much detail, or any evidence, to show these are wrong, or specifics around what she thinks 
any issue with the figures is. Given the very limited information, I havent seen enough to 
make me think VWFS need to take any action on this point.
I want to reiterate to Ms B that Ive carefully considered everything else shes provided and 
all of the testimony shes given us. But this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman