DRN-2273113
The complaint
Mr C has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1 or the lender) should not have 
agreed a guarantor loan for him in May 2018. 
  
What happened
1Plus1 agreed a loan of £2,000 for Mr C on the 23 May 2018. The monthly repayment 
was £122.50 over a term of two years, and the total amount to be repaid came to about 
£2,940. This was a guarantor loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr C 
had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loan if he failed to meet his 
repayments.
Mr C says that 1Plus1 was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for him. He says it would 
have declined his application had it carried out proper checks and evidenced his income and 
expenditure. Mr C says he was in a cycle of debt, was borrowing from elsewhere and was 
spending most of his wages on gambling. Mr C says the loan made his financial situation 
worse and caused him to spiral further into debt. 
Mr C also complains that 1Plus1 Loans didnt treat him fairly in its response to his complaint, 
for example Mr C says that it referred to what he considers his addiction as a lifestyle 
choice which he found offensive.
1Plus1 says that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Mr C 
and its checks didnt raise any concerns. It notes he had historic defaults and minor 
delinquencies but that his income was high enough for him to be able to afford the loan, and 
it verified his income level with his wage slips.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that 1Plus1 had been irresponsible in 
lending to Mr C. They recommended that the lender refund Mr Cs interest repayments along 
with compensatory interest.
1Plus1 disagreed with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to me, as 
an ombudsman, to review and resolve.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for 1Plus1 and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this 
conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 1Plus1 lent to Mr C. Its rules 
and guidance obliged 1Plus1 to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), 1Plus1 needed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly and it would not be doing so if it targeted customers with regulated credit 
agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit 
history, age, health, disability or any other reason. (CONC 2.2.2G).
When agreeing credit, 1Plus1 needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner 
over the lifetime of the agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1G stated that
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting other reasonable commitments;  without having to borrow further to 
meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G - 6) or in 
particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3). ILG refers to the 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance produced by the previous regulator - the Office of Fair 
Trading - which this part of CONC specifically references.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the borrower. In other words the assessment needs to be 
borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, 
but of the risk to the borrower of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. So even in this case where Mr C 
had a guarantor who agreed to step in and meet repayments in the event that he couldnt, 
this doesnt absolve 1Plus1 of its obligation to assess whether in the first instance Mr C 
could meet his repayments without undue difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
- Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown? 
- Ultimately, did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision?
1Plus1 says that it gathered information from Mr C about his income and expenditure. It 
discussed this with him on a telephone call and also discussed his existing debts. Its 
provided the call recordings and a summary of the information it found on Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C declared an income of £1,336 from his main wage plus about £100 to £200 a month 
from an ad hoc second job. 1Plus1 estimated Mr Cs monthly net income to be £1,624 which 
I think was an overestimate. Mr C provided 1Plus1 with wage slips which showed his most recent wage was £1,371. This included overtime and his basic gross salary was less than 
£1,300 a month. His most recent wage slip from his ad hoc job showed £82. 
Mr C declared his living costs to be approximately £1,030. This included rent, council tax, 
utilities and some bills. This was an estimate and didnt include car insurance or tax costs, 
for example. 1Plus1 compared Mr Cs expenditure figures to statistical datasets of living 
costs from the Office of National Statistics and used a figure of about £100 more in its 
estimate of his living costs (excluding debt repayments). 
I think 1Plus1 had enough information here to be concerned about Mr Cs ability to meet his 
repayments for further credit in a sustainable manner over the term of the loan. A month 
without overtime or additional ad hoc income would make it difficult for Mr C to meet his 
repayment. 
The figures Mr C gave for his gas, electricity and water payments were to cover arrears  he 
mentioned on the call that his debt with his gas and electricity supplier was approximately 
£1,000. 1Plus1 referred to minor delinquent payments in its final response letter. I cant 
agree that arrears on utility bills are minor delinquencies, I think they are more likely to be an 
indication of financial distress. 
Mr Cs credit file information shows eight defaulted accounts, the most recent of which was a 
bank account defaulted in June 2016. The total owing amounted to over £3,000 and Mr C 
told 1Plus1 that he was repaying some of these but not others. Mr Cs loan was to cover a 
home improvements and a holiday. He mentioned on the call that he would use some of the 
loan to clear some small debts. He also said that hed paid off a loan of almost £1,500 from a 
high cost lender the previous day. 
It seems to me that Mr C wasnt managing to clear old defaults and was in arrears on his 
priority bills. He had just repaid a loan and was borrowing again the next day, not to 
consolidate but to meet additional costs. I think its likely Mr C needed to borrow again to 
replace the money hed used to pay this previous loan. The regulator specifically says that 
being able to repay sustainably means not having to borrow to do so. I understand Mr C 
repaid this loan early by borrowing from elsewhere. 
I dont think 1Plus1 treated Mr C fairly when it agreed to lend to him on this occasion, without 
carrying out any additional checks. I think it had enough information about Mr Cs finances to 
see that he wasnt likely to be able to meet his repayments sustainably and so I think it was 
irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him. 
Mr C told us that he was gambling heavily at that time and has provided his bank statements 
which support this. I think further checks on Mr Cs circumstances wouldnt have provided 
any reassurance to 1Plus1 that he would have managed his repayments sustainably or that 
the loan was suitable for him at that time. 
1Plus1 said in its response letter to Mr C that not revealing his gambling at the time of his 
application was unlawful and fraudulent. However, it also said that this had no bearing on the 
affordability of the loan as it was non-essential spending and that his complaint had no merit. 
Mr C said the comments worried him and he said that referring to his gambling as a choice 
was ignorant and upsetting. 
I can see that Mr C brought his complaint to us shortly after receiving the final response so I 
dont think that these comments deterred him from pursuing his complaint. These comments 
seem contradictory to me and unsympathetic, however I dont think I can make an additional 
award specifically in relation to the offence these caused. I am upholding Mr Cs complaint and directing 1Plus1 to put things right for him as set out below, and I hope this resolves the 
matter for him. 
Putting things right
In order to put Mr C back in the position he would have been in, had it not agreed to lend to 
him, I think 1Plus1 should: 
-consider all payments made by Mr C as payments towards the original capital amount of 
£2,000; and
-refund all amounts Mr C paid above this capital amount; and
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates they were paid to 
the date of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint for the reasons Ive explained above and require 
1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right for him as Ive set out.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman