DRN-2809788
The complaint
Mrs S complains that AmTrust Europe Limited unfairly refused to pay the legal fees she 
incurred in relation to an Employment dispute. Mrs Ss claim was made under the Family 
Legal protection section of a home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S was involved in an employment dispute, the legal cover of which was covered under 
the policy. It appears that AmTrust had appointed panel solicitors to act. The matter was 
listed for hearing and shortly before that the solicitors decided there were no longer 
reasonable prospects of success. Because of this AmTrust withdrew cover.
Mrs S instructed her own solicitor on a private paying basis, who considered there were 
prospects of success. The matter went to hearing and it was concluded that she had been 
unfairly dismissed. A further hearing on remedies was scheduled but settlement was agreed 
without the need. Mrs S asked AmTrust to pay her legal fees.
AmTrust retrospectively reviewed the claim but rejected it because they concluded the claim 
didnt have reasonable prospects, and costs of pursuing the matter were disproportionate to 
the costs incurred. As such, the policy terms for cover were not met.
Our investigator explained why she thought AmTrust should pay Mrs Ss legal fees. She said 
AmTrust had recognised that our usual approach where prospects werent met was that the 
insurer should explain to the policyholder that they can obtain their own legal opinion. And if 
that supports there being reasonable prospects then that would be considered further by the 
insurer and / or the panel solicitors. 
The investigator noted AmTrust had not so advised Mrs S, which AmTrust accepted. And 
she thought it reasonable to assume that had AmTrust done this then Mrs S would have 
reverted once her solicitor confirmed reasonable prospects of success. This led the 
investigator to conclude that it wasnt fair for AmTrust to penalise Mrs S by using a 
retrospective review in circumstances where the case had concluded in Mrs Ss favour. So, 
she said AmTrust should cover the legal costs Mrs S incurred.
AmTrust disagreed saying had Mrs S come back with the positive legal opinion on prospects 
then cover could have been reinstated. But as this didnt happen AmTrust werent given the 
opportunity to review the matter. And it also explained that the legal costs in pursuing the 
legal case were disproportionate to the value of the claim (approx. £12,463 incurred v 
Counsels valuation of case at £13,416 (maximum including 25% uplift).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are terms within the policy that would contractually support AmTrusts decision not to 
pay Mrs Ss legal fees. I dont intend to rehearse them all, but an example includes costs 
incurred without written confirmation from AmTrust. And its worth emphasising that a claim 
must have reasonable prospects of success, so a greater than 50% chance of achieving the 
intended successful outcome and the costs of that are not disproportionate to the costs 
incurred in achieving that outcome.
The policy doesnt define what is meant by disproportionate  theres an ordinary dictionary 
definition along the lines of too large or too small in comparison with something else. But 
disproportionate costs also have a context within legal proceedings which is not necessarily 
in keeping with the dictionary definition. That all said, Mrs S wasnt advised that she could 
provide a second legal opinion, which if supportive of prospects would allow AmTrust to 
review the matter to see if it would have continued covering the employment dispute. 
The difficulty in this case for AmTrusts retrospective review is that Mrs S obtained a 
favourable opinion on prospects and indeed achieved a favourable outcome. The final legal 
costs are known as is the settlement she received. Had Mrs S been advised she could return 
to AmTrust if she obtained a favourable opinion on prospects, Im satisfied she would have 
done so. She had been engaged with panel solicitors previously and I think she would have 
remained so. Given panel solicitors had not apparently raised any issue of disproportionate 
costs previously, and the matter had been listed for hearing, Im not satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that Mrs S is effectively penalised retrospectively. 
AmTrust could well have obtained more favourable legal costs but its poor information meant 
Mrs S found herself having to pursue the matter without insurance cover and the ability to 
secure the rates AmTrust could have. 
AmTrust has said that even with a favourable opinion on prospects it still may not cover legal 
expenses in pursuing a case. Thats correct and quite often in such cases AmTrust would 
either seek another view from a barrister, agree to continue cover or not pursue sometimes 
because of disproportionality issues. AmTrust has raised an issue about whether Mrs S had 
a favourable prospects opinion because of correspondence it had seen from her solicitor. 
And the correspondence that said there were reasonable prospects was more retrospective 
than contemporaneous to the advice initially given. I take into account the fact that the 
solicitor is bound by a code of conduct for professional standards, which includes not taking 
unfair advantage of or misleading clients. So, even though the opinion on prospects may be 
more retrospective than contemporaneous Im not persuaded the opinion is disingenuous or 
given in anything other than good faith.
But I come back to the fact that AmTrusts failure to give clear information to Mrs S impacted 
her decision to proceed in the way she did. And so, I remain satisfied that whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances is that she isnt negatively impacted because of 
AmTrusts failure. 
Putting things right
AmTrust must refund the legal fees Mrs S has paid or is liable to pay. Those fees appear to 
amount to £12,463 and for any fees Mrs S has already paid AmTrust will need to add 
interest at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs S paid them to the date of 
refund.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AmTrust Europe Limited to cover Mrs Ss legal fees as 
set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman