DRN-3462705
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by UK Credit Limited, trading as  
UK Credit, (UK Credit), which she says was unaffordable. Mrs Ws complaint has been 
brought to this Service on her behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I 
shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mrs W. 
What happened
UK Credit entered into an agreement for a guarantor loan for Mrs W on 21 March 2016. The 
loan was for £7,500 and was repayable by 60 monthly payments of £254.76. The interest 
rate was 32.6%, (37.9% APR). If Mrs W made each repayment when it was due, the total 
amount payable was £15,285.60. Part of the loan was to be used to repay a previous loan 
for £7,500 which Mrs W had taken out with UK Credit in September 2013. So, UK Credit 
used £5,372.81 from the loan proceeds to repay the 2013 loan and Mrs W received 
£2,127.19 from the 2016 loan. According to the most recent information Ive seen    
(February 2022), the loan hasnt yet been repaid. 
Mrs W says that UK Credit didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting her 
credit nor did it assess signs of her over indebtedness. She said that the unaffordable high 
cost loan worsened her financial situation which was already poor. 
In its final response letter, UK Credit said an affordability assessment was conducted with 
Mrs W prior to the completion of the loan. This involved a review of information provided by 
its credit checks, an electronic income verification check, and a review of Mrs Ws income 
and expenditure. Its credit checks showed that in general Mrs W was managing her financial 
commitments well . She already had an existing loan with it and had made all contractual 
monthly repayments. Following its income and expenditure assessment, UK Credit 
estimated that Mrs W had a surplus income of approximately £271 per month, and the loan 
was deemed affordable. 
Our investigators view   
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
that UK Credits checks had gone far enough. She noted that Mrs Ws total repayments 
towards other credit were already over £1,000, and with this loan, it would mean her total 
debt to income ratio would be around 75%. She said that this wouldnt be sustainable for the 
term of the loan, and as UK Credit was aware of this, she thought that UK Credit didnt make 
a fair lending decision. The investigator said that Mrs W had provided this Service with her 
bank statements prior to the approval of this loan. She noted that Mrs W was making 
payments to nine different accounts which were all with a debt collection agency and that 
Mrs W was constantly living in her £2,000 overdraft.
UK Credit responded to the investigators view by asking to see the bank statements the 
investigator had referred to in her view. UK Credit reviewed the statements and disagreed 
with the investigators view. It said:-
- Mrs Ws active credit was under £12,000 which didnt seem disproportionate to her 
income. Her existing loan repayments were £389.04 (without its 2013 loan). It queried 
how the investigator had calculated Mrs Ws other credit to be over £1,000. 
- Mrs W had maintained her loan repayments on its existing loan, and she was in an 
arrangement to pay her default balances. 
- The investigator referred to a recent default for £30 but it noted that this account had 
been showing signs of payment difficulty 18 months previously, around the same time 
as other defaults had occurred. It seemed unrealistic to conclude that Mrs W was 
experiencing financial difficulty at the time of the loan application on this basis. 
- Although nine defaults were with a debt collector, the default balances were reducing. It 
could see no evidence on the bank statements that payments to these items of credit 
were putting Mrs W into financial difficulty. 
- It had seen a payslip to evidence Mrs Ws monthly income as £1,775.74.
- Although Mrs W paid a monthly fee of £27 for her overdraft facility, and she went a few 
pounds over the overdraft just after Christmas 2016, she maintained her finances within 
this facility. 
- From its assessment at the time, it didnt appear that the payday loan repayment of 
£300 had been taken into account. 
- In terms of affordability, it didnt take the monthly payments totalling £400 from Mrs Ws 
adult children into account. Mrs W had said she used this for non-essential spending. It 
felt that it was reasonable to take this into account for the purposes of considering 
whether she could afford the loan repayments with all her household income. 
- There were regular payments going into Mrs Ws current account from another account. 
There were also no regular payments to a payday lender appearing on Mrs Ws bank 
statements. 
- If UK Credit had seen Mrs Ws bank statements at point of sale, it didnt believe there 
was sufficient evidence to suggest this loan was unaffordable.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W
and to UK Credit on 7 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said that where information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, which was what Id done in relation to certain aspects of the 
complaint.
Id noted that when UK Credit lent to Mrs W, the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged UK Credit to lend responsibly. As set 
out in CONC, this meant that UK Credit needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps 
to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a 
sustainable manner over the lifetime of the loan agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so UK Credit had to think about whether Mrs W 
could sustainably repay her loan. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs W undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on 
Mrs W. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower would be required to make payments for an 
extended period);
Id noted that UK Credit had spoken to Mrs W on the phone and gathered some information 
from her about her income and expenses before it agreed the loan. Mrs W had provided UK 
Credit with a payslip for February 2016. It had also carried out a credit check.
Mrs Ws payslip for February 2016 showed a net monthly pay of £1,775.74. But it also 
showed an amount of £63.60 for expenses included in the payment. So, her net monthly 
income was around £1,712 without expenses which was a little less than the amount of 
£1,726.01 used by UK Credit in its affordability calculations.
Id listened to a recording of the call between UK Credit and Mrs W in which Mrs W had 
provided the lender with more information about her employment, outgoings, and credit 
commitments. Id also noted that shed said that her two adult children were paying her a 
total of £400 each month. In its final response letter, UK Credit said that it didnt take this 
additional income into account for the purposes of the affordability assessment and relied 
solely on Mrs Ws employment income. But Id noted in its response to the investigators 
view that it felt it was reasonable to take this extra income into account for the purposes of 
considering whether Mrs W could afford the loan repayments with all her household income. 
I didnt think it was reasonable to take this additional income into account. UK Credit was 
required to assess whether Mrs W could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable 
manner over the lifetime of the agreement. As the loan was for 60 months, I didnt think    
Mrs W could reasonably expect her two adult children to live with her and contribute a 
payment for board for the whole of that period. 
Id also reviewed UK Credits credit checks. These showed Mrs W had eight defaulted 
accounts between 2010 and 2014. Generally, I thought it would be more reasonable for a 
lender to be more interested in a consumers more recent credit history for the purposes of 
assessing whether a loan would be affordable. I could also see that Mrs W was paying off 
some of the defaults through a debt collection agency. UK Credit in its final response letter appeared to have allocated around £50 for these payments. But Id also noted that an older 
account for just £30 which had been in arrears for at least 23 months, had been defaulted in 
the same month as Mrs Ws loan application. I thought it was concerning that Mrs W had 
been unable to settle this debt before it was defaulted. And I didnt think the proximity of the 
default to the loan application made it responsible for UK Credit to provide the loan without 
more comprehensive checks.
The checks also showed that Mrs W had two loans, although one of these was UK Credits 
2013 loan. The other loan was for £4,000 and had been taken out around four months prior 
to the loan application. I understood that this was a high cost loan with monthly repayments 
of £195. I could see that Mrs W had also taken out two retail option loans totalling over 
£3,200 around nine months earlier with monthly repayments totalling around £141. I could 
also see that Mrs Ws current account had a £2,000 overdraft limit and her overdraft balance 
was £1,963. So, she was approaching her overdraft limit. There was also an account with a 
communications supplier with a balance of £258 on which it appeared that Mrs W had 
missed four of the last five payments. I could also see a payday loan which was taken out in 
2012 which had been in arrears for at least 14 months. I couldnt see that any payday loans 
had been taken out since 2012. Altogether, I thought UK Credit ought to have been 
concerned about Mrs Ws relatively recent large increase in credit, the recent arrears on a 
communications account and her current account approaching its overdraft limit, all of which 
might have suggested that Mrs Ws finances were under pressure. I thought Mrs Ws recent 
use of credit, should have led UK Credit to conclude it should gather some more information 
about Mrs Ws finances.
I was also concerned that UK Credit appeared to have mostly relied on Mrs Ws statement of 
her expenses without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, in Mrs Ws circumstances, I didnt think it was reasonable for UK Credit to base its 
assessment on the financial information Mrs W had provided about her expenses. Mrs W 
was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. She would need to make monthly 
repayments of around £255 for 60 months. So, I would have expected that UK Credit would 
want to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I didnt think that UK Credits checks went far 
enough. I thought it would have been proportionate for UK Credit to have independently 
checked the true state of Mrs Ws finances before agreeing the loan. 
UK Credit was required to establish whether Mrs W could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
But although I thought UK Credit should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mrs Ws complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown UK Credit that     Mrs W couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, Id looked at Mrs Ws bank 
statements, to see what additional checks would have shown the lender. 
I wasnt suggesting that this was the exact check that UK Credit should have carried out. But 
I did think UK Credit needed information to corroborate what Mrs W said was happening with 
her finances. And looking at her bank statements was one way of achieving that although 
there were of course many other ways that level of detail could have been established. But I 
thought that by looking at Mrs Ws bank statements I could get a good idea of what further 
checks might have shown. 
What would further checks have shown? 
Id noted that Mrs W had sent this Service some statements for two of her current accounts 
for parts of several months. It was clear from the statements that she was making transfers 
to her accounts from four other accounts. So, Id asked the investigator to ask Mrs W for 
bank statements for a complete months period for all of her accounts and for some more 
information about her situation to see what better checks would have shown UK Credit. 
Mrs W said she was unable to provide bank statements for one of her current accounts and 
she could only provide statements for part of a period for another. Shed provided 
statements for two accounts that were only used for transfers between accounts. Shed also 
said that she paid for gas and electricity and sometimes her council tax by cash. So, Id used 
the amounts Mrs W provided on the phone to UK Credit for the amounts paid for her utilities 
and council tax.
Id reviewed all the bank statements wed received from Mrs W to give me the best picture of 
what the lender should have seen if it had made better checks. 
With regard to the account into which Mrs Ws salary was paid, I could see that there was an 
overdraft limit of £2,000 and that Mrs W generally stayed within the overdraft limit. But she 
only did this by transferring amounts from her other accounts into her main account. And at 
the date of her loan application, her overdraft was nearly £1,999 and so it was just under the 
overdraft limit. So, it appeared that Mrs Ws finances were likely to be strained.
Id reviewed Mrs Ws bank statements from three of her current accounts for the period              
10 February 2016 to 7 March 2016 which was almost a complete month. I could see there 
were transfers totalling around £818 into the accounts with transfers of around £164 paid out 
of the accounts. During this period, I could see that Mrs W was paying in total from three of 
her current accounts around £1,635 for her rent, regular living costs (including cash 
payments for utilities and council tax) and credit commitments (excluding the loan repayment 
for her 2013 UK Credit loan). This wouldnt have left Mrs W with sufficient disposable income 
to repay UK Credits 2016 loan. Id also looked at Mrs Ws bank statements for a period of 
around a month from mid-December 2015 to mid-January 2016 which produced a similar 
result. Overall, I could see from the bank statements that Mrs Ws financial commitments 
and regular living costs were higher than the amount UK Credit had calculated. And I 
couldnt see that Mrs W had sufficient disposable income to repay UK Credit sustainably. 
So, I thought if UK Credit had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it 
was likely it would have discovered that Mrs W was over committed financially. And I thought 
it was likely that further checks wouldnt have provided any reassurance to UK Credit that 
Mrs W would have managed her repayments sustainably or that the loan was suitable for 
her. And so, I thought the lender was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to her on this 
occasion. So, for the reasons set out above, I intended to say that UK Credit didnt make a fair lending 
decision when it provided the loan to Mrs W and subject to any further representations by 
Mrs W or UK Credit, I intended to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and say that UK Credit should 
put things right as follows. 
Putting things right  what UK Credit needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mrs W back into the 
position she would have been had the loan not been agreed for her, UK Credit needs to 
ensure that Mrs W only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mrs W 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of £7,500 she borrowed. So, UK Credit needs 
to:
a) treat all payments that Mrs W has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) if Mrs W has made payments above the capital amount of £7,500, then these should be 
refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if Mrs W hasnt made payments above the capital amount of £7,500 and there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then UK Credit needs to treat Mrs W fairly and sympathetically in 
this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with her; and
d) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mrs Ws credit file.
If UK Credit has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do 
so or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If UK Credit isnt able to buy the 
debt back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about 
steps a) to d) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Mrs W responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with it. 
UK Credit disagreed with my provisional decision and raised a number of issues. I list below 
UK Credits main points:-
- It didnt dispute that the employed income to be taken into account should be the 
lowest pay. It agreed that Mrs Ws employed income was £1,712 as detailed in the 
decision. 
- It didnt agree with my conclusion that the additional income Mrs W received in board 
payments from her adult children should be excluded. It noted that Mrs W had said 
that the board payments were used for non-essential spending. It felt it was 
reasonable to take this into account for the purposes of considering whether Mrs W 
could afford the loan repayments with all her household income. It also noted that 
Mrs Ws circumstances were expected to change with her impending wedding and 
her partner was then expected to share the household costs when moving into her 
residence. It said that not only was Mrs W in receipt of board from her two adult 
children, and she didnt allude to this changing during the loan term, but also she 
specifically told its agent that she would also be expecting to share the household 
expenditure after her wedding in or around five months time, thereby decreasing her 
contribution to the household bills. 
- Regarding what was seen on the bank statements, it noted that only one month was taken into consideration and not all account statements were provided. It noted on 
the bank statements that Mrs W had a total of six bank accounts, but it had only seen 
statements for two of the accounts. On the basis it hadnt seen all of the accounts, it 
was unsure that there was sufficient evidence to draw conclusions on the affordability 
of its loan repayments. 
- It said that based on Mrs Ws income of £1,711, and not including the contributions 
from her adult children and the future contributions from Mrs Ws husband to be, the 
loan should still have been affordable based on the essential spending on Mrs Ws 
bank statements and what she had told its agent at the point of sale. It listed the 
following expenses:-
Council tax £113
Electric £80 
Gas £50 
Water £23 
Media £127.34 
Mobile £20 
TV licence £12.10 
Rent £335 
Food £100 
Overdraft 
fee £27 
Default 
debts£90 
Retail 
credit  £141 
Loan 
repayment£195 
UKC loan £254.76 
Credit 
check £3.99 
Total 
expenses £1,572.19 
Surplus 
income £138.81 
- After the loan was paid out, Mrs W maintained her monthly direct debit repayments. 
She had changed jobs on more than one occasion during the loan term which did 
affect her repayments in May 2017. Looking at the credit search it ran in 2021 as part 
of its investigation, Mrs W only started to show signs of being in financial difficulty 
after she took out more credit from March 2017, some 12 months after its loan 
commenced. 
- Based on the evidence available at point of sale and the bank statements that it had 
received from this Service, it didnt agree that Mrs W was over committed financially 
and that its loan repayments were unsustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I have considered carefully UK Credits response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that 
this will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it didnt make a fair lending 
decision when it agreed the loan for Mrs W. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional 
decision and Ive also responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision 
below.
I note that UK Credit agreed that a monthly income of £1,712 should be used, although later 
in its response it used a monthly income of £1,711 in its affordability calculations.
I refer to the board payments from Mrs Ws adult children which UK Credit felt should be 
taken into account. I think it might be reasonable in certain situations to include such 
payments as part of a consumers income depending on the circumstances, such as the 
term of the loan and the degree to which the repayments relied on a contribution from 
others. In this case it seems the loan wasnt affordable sustainably without such a 
contribution. But as the loan term was five years it seems unreasonable to assume that    
Mrs W could depend on others for her repayments across the entire term. 
Id also asked the investigator to ask Mrs W if she expected her adult children to continue to 
live with her after her wedding. Mrs W responded to say that at the time of the loan 
application, she didn't really expect her adult children to continue living with her after the 
wedding. And one of her children had been looking to rent somewhere to live. Mrs W also 
said that the board payments werent regular and one of her children wouldn't pay anything 
for months because they were in and out of jobs.
So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it was appropriate for UK Credit to take 
the board payments into account.
I refer to UK Credits comments with regard to the expected change in Mrs Ws 
circumstances as a result of her impending wedding and her partner then being expected to 
share the household costs when moving into her residence. I dont think it was appropriate to 
take this into account. At the time of the loan application, it doesnt appear that UK Credit 
had any information as to Mrs Ws new partners circumstances, the amount he would 
contribute, and it didnt know what his situation would be after the wedding which was 
around five months after the loan was provided. It was also important that Mrs W could 
afford the loan until the wedding from her own income. 
I note that CONC 5.2.3G(4) said the extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment 
should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which might include the financial 
position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit. 
And CONC 5.3.1G(3) said:-
 A firm in making its creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) may take into account future increases in income or future decreases in 
expenditure, where there is appropriate evidence of the change and the repayments are 
expected to be sustainable in the light of the change.
In this case as Ive said above, I dont think Mrs W could afford the loan sustainably at the 
time she sought credit from UK Credit and there was a gap of at least five months before she 
was to be married. Ive also not received and seen appropriate evidence of the change in 
circumstances. So, I dont think it was right for UK Credit to accept Mrs Ws application on 
this basis. I also note that UK Credit didnt think there was sufficient evidence to draw conclusions on 
the affordability of its loan repayments. I disagree. As well as the statements Id seen for the 
period 10 February 2016 to 7 March 2016, as Id said above Id also reviewed some 
statements for the period of around a month from mid-December 2015 to mid-January 2016 
which supported my findings regarding the affordability of the loan repayments. I had also 
seen statements for three other accounts, and two of the accounts were only used for 
transfers. With regard to the statements for the account I hadnt seen, Mrs W said the 
account wasnt used for any real purpose.  
Ive recalculated Mrs Ws likely living costs and compared them to the list provided by        
UK Credit in its response to my provisional decision. I disagree with some of the figures 
provided by UK Credit where they differ from the information in Mrs Ws bank statements for 
the period 10 February 2016 to 7 March 2016. I note that UK Credit said it had used the 
information provided by Mrs W in its call with her and the bank statements it had received 
from this Service. As Id said above, I dont think UK Credit should have relied on Mrs Ws 
statement of her expenses without verifying them. But it seems to have mainly listed the 
figures Mrs W provided to its agent.
Other than the amount of £266 for utilities and council tax which Mrs W said were paid by 
cash, Id used all but one of the figures in my calculation of Mrs Ws expenses from the bank 
statements for two of Mrs Ws bank accounts which this Service had previously sent to        
UK Credit. There was also an amount of £5 likely to be for food on another account 
statement UK Credit hadnt seen. On balance, it appeared that spending on food and drink 
totalled around £360 (rather than the amount of £100 listed by UK Credit), spending on a TV 
Licence was £29.10 (and not £12.10 as listed by UK Credit), and rent was £339.78 (and not 
£335 as listed by UK Credit). The figures Id used to calculate Mrs Ws credit repayments to 
two of her other creditors were also slightly higher than those used by UK Credit. 
Id calculated Mrs Ws living costs and financial commitments on this occasion to be around 
£1,577 (excluding UK Credits loan repayment). This left a monthly disposable income of 
around £135 which wasnt sufficient to meet UK Credits loan repayment of £254.76. So, I 
didnt agree with UK Credit that the loan was affordable for Mrs W.
I note that UK Credit said that after the loan was paid out, Mrs W maintained her monthly 
direct debit repayments. It also said she had changed jobs which did affect her repayments 
in May 2017. But I can see from UK Credits loan account statement that Mrs W had earlier 
payment difficulties. Her repayment was late in August 2016 and her direct debit was 
returned in January 2017 after which she made a late repayment. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions. It 
follows that I uphold this complaint and require UK Credit to take the steps set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what UK Credit needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order UK Credit Limited, trading as UK Credit, to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what UK Credit needs to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman