DRN-3347906
The complaint
Mr O complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O has a home insurance policy underwritten by Ageas which covers buildings and 
contents, amongst other things.
In November 2021, he made a claim after the dry verge on his roof fell off. Mr O said this 
was due to bad weather and high winds at the time.
Ageas asked Mr O to get a quote for the repairs, which he did  the quote was for just over 
£2,000. But Ageas then told Mr O they were declining his claim because there was no 
insured event  no storm  on the dates in question.
Mr O wasnt happy with this and complained to Ageas. And when they maintained their 
stance, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. 
Mr O disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what Mr Os policy says. It says Ageas will cover 
damage to his property caused by a storm. They will not cover damage which results from 
wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
This is not at all unusual for a home insurance policy. Nor is it in any way unfair  or unclear, 
as its set out in Mr Os policy. 
So, the simple questions for me are whether the weather conditions on the relevant dates 
(26 or 27 November 2021) were bad enough to be considered a storm  and, if so, whether 
that storm was the primary cause of the damage to Mr Os property. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr O, but Im satisfied there wasnt any storm in Mr Os 
area on the dates in question. The highest gusting wind speeds recorded at the closest 
weather station were around 36 miles per hour.
Ageas have told Mr O they think wind speeds need to be at around 55 miles per hour or 
above for them to consider a storm has taken place  although thats not stated in the policy 
terms. Mr O says other insurers say 47 miles per hour is enough.
We wouldnt say that an insurer should simply take the wind speed at the nearest weather 
station and decline a claim based on that alone. Wed expect them to take a wider view. 
If winds are reasonably close to storm speed at the nearest weather station, we think 
insurers should take into account local conditions, the distance between the property and the 
weather station, the location of the property and nearby buildings and any other relevant 
factors.
Mr O says a named storm took place on the dates in question  storm Arwen. And he says 
conditions in his locality may have differed from those at the weather station, which is five 
miles away from his property. 
Storm Arwen affected some parts of the UK more severely than others. Mr O doesnt live in 
a location that was badly affected. 
Weve looked at reports from a number of weather stations in the wider area. Its very 
unlikely there were many gusts of wind above around 40 miles per hour in that region on the 
relevant dates.
The question of whether Ageas can sustain an argument that winds need to be above 55 
miles per hour for a storm to have taken place, whilst other insurers take a different view, 
doesnt come into play in this case. 
Given the wind speeds, Mr Os claim wouldnt have been accepted by insurers taking 47 
miles per hour winds to be a storm.
I know Mr O says his dry verge was installed only around seven years ago  and theyre 
expected to last much longer than that. 
And Im aware that he had other work done on his roof recently and says he would have 
expected the roofing contractor to mention it if his dry verge appeared not to be in good 
order.
I dont think the roofers failure to comment on the dry verge is particularly relevant, given 
that he was working on a different area of the roof. 
But more importantly perhaps, the onus is on the customer who makes a claim to identify the 
loss theyve suffered and the insured event which caused that loss. 
In this case, Mr O says the problem was caused by a storm. But the evidence suggests 
there was no storm. 
Its not unreasonable for Ageas to rely on that evidence in declining the claim, given that 
theres no suggestion that any other insured event caused the damage to Mr Os property. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman