DRN-3162395
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt honour cheque payments he made.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Mr B opened a new bank account with HSBC. In March 2020 Mr B wrote a cheque for 
£950 but HSBC declined the payment. Mr B complained and HSBC explained it hadnt 
taken a record of Mr Bs signature when he opened the account. HSBC apologised and 
paid Mr H £50 for the inconvenience caused.
At the end of April 2020 Mr B wrote a rent cheque in his landlords name. Mr B included his 
landlords initials and name on the cheque. HSBC declined to pay the cheque. Mr B has 
told us the following day a letter was delivered to HSBC that explained he intended to write 
another cheque for £1,000 as a replacement.
Mr B wrote another cheque for his landlord but HSBC again refused to honour it. Mr B has 
told us HSBC made no effort to contact him to advise it had decided not to make his 
cheque payments.
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. HSBC told the 
investigator it had declined Mr Bs two rent cheques because of a concern that the payees 
name wasnt complete. Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr Bs complaint 
fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else.
Mr B asked to appeal and told us hes disabled, housebound and vulnerable. Mr B has 
explained that he has paid his rent via cheque for many years, using the same name 
format for his landlord, albeit via a different bank. Mr B has explained that his options for 
making alternative payments were limited due his health and requirement to shield during 
the pandemic. Mr B didnt accept the investigators view, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC says there were two separate reasons it declined to pay Mr Bs cheques, Ill look
at each issue in turn.
The first cheque was returned unpaid because HSBC failed to take a signature sample 
from Mr B when the account was opened. Its clear Mr B regularly uses cheques so I can 
see HSBCs failure to record a sample signature caused some inconvenience. That being 
said, HSBC took steps to record a sample signature and paid Mr B £50. Im satisfied the 
compensation paid for this part of the complaint is fair and reasonable.
HSBC has told us it refused Mr Bs two rent cheques because it wasnt happy with the 
payees name. The payee was listed with two initials and a surname. I understand HSBC 
has to act to protect its customers funds and accounts. I wouldnt expect it to approve 
payments it cant verify as genuine. But, in the circumstances Mr B has raised, Im not 
persuaded HSBC has acted fairly.
Mr B says the cheques were important and intended to pay his rent which is a priority bill. 
Mr B has also explained hes paid rent in this manner for many years and the situation 
caused difficulties with his landlord. And Mr B has queried why HSBC didnt contact him to 
check whether the cheques were genuine, despite his letter that confirmed he needed to 
write a replacement being provided. Whilst I understand HSBC has to act to protect 
customers account, in this case, I think it shouldve contacted Mr B.
Ive also looked at HSBCs current account terms and the tips provided for issuing 
cheques. Theres nothing in the terms or guidance I could find more generally that says 
customers have to include a salutation in addition to the payees name and initials. If 
HSBC requires information of that nature to ensure a cheque is honoured, I think it 
shouldve told Mr B during the account opening process.
The above is compounded by the backdrop of the pandemic and Mr Bs advice that he is 
vulnerable and was shielding. That limited Mr Bs ability to resolve problems. And, as Ive 
said above, I think HSBC couldve helped Mr B by contacting him when processing his 
cheques.
Im satisfied that the way Mr Bs cheques were processed caused him an unnecessary 
level of distress and inconvenience. I dont doubt that Mr B was upset to find his rent 
cheques had gone unpaid twice without notification and concerned about how to resolve 
the situation. I dont agree the £50 payment HSBC has paid fairly reflects the impact of the 
issues raised on Mr B. Unless I receive information that changes my mind, I intend to tell 
HSBC to increase the compensation in this case and pay Mr B a further £150 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, taking the total compensation to 
£200.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to take into 
consideration before I made my final decision. Mr B confirmed he accepted. Neither party 
has sent any new information for me to take into account. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As we didnt get any new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, for the same 
reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B a 
further £150, taking the total award to £200.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman