DRN-4377313
The complaint
Miss K complains about BW Legal Services Limiteds actions when try to collect a debt. 
What happened
Miss K took out a loan for £1,000 with a lender Ill call S in October 2021. The loan was 
ultimately closed in default by S. In October 2022 BW Legal was instructed by S to collect 
the outstanding balance on its behalf. 
BW Legal says it sent Miss K letters to the address it was given by S as well as emails. BW 
Legal says it also called Miss K to try and discuss the status of her account. When no 
response was received, BW Legal completed a tracing exercise via a credit reference 
agency and found a different address for Miss K.  
On 6 December 2022 BW Legal sent Miss K an email that said it would issue a Letter of 
Claim if no contact was received. On 13 January 2023 Miss K emailed BW Legal and it sent 
an automatic response that said someone would come back to her within seven to 14 days 
and to call if the issue was urgent. 
On 16 January 2023 BW Legal issued a Letter of Claim, explaining it may take legal action 
to secure a CCJ in relation to the outstanding balance. 
On 3 February 2023 Miss K discussed her account with BW Legal via its online chat facility. 
The chat logs show Miss K gave an up to date address which was recorded. Miss K 
explained shed been unable to speak with BW Legal over the phone and her emails had not 
been responded to. Miss K explained she wanted to arrange a payment plan and asked for a 
call to be made at 2pm. 
BW Legal didnt call Miss K back on 3 February 2023 as agreed. But it attempted to call Miss 
K back on 4 February 2023 and left a message for her. On 6 February 2023 Miss K was able 
to log into BW Legals online portal and submit a payment plan proposal. BW Legal sent 
Miss K an email the same day to confirm the payment plan had been set with payments of 
£50 a month due. Miss K sent BW Legal a follow up email that explained the reason shed 
been unable to access the online portal previously was due to her old address being held on 
file. 
There were further attempts to call Miss K in the days that followed. When Miss K called to 
speak with BW Legal she was advised someone would ring her back. But Miss Ks explained 
calls werent received as promised. 
Miss K complained and BW Legal issued a final response on 9 February 2023. BW Legal 
said the address it had sent letters to was obtained via the credit reference agencies but 
then updated during Miss Ks online chat. BW Legal confirmed it had agreed a £50 monthly 
payment plan that meant no further legal action was planned. BW Legal apologised that call 
backs werent made as promised but said it had tried to contact Miss K and left 
answerphone messages. 
Miss K referred her complaint to this service and has explained that BW Legals submissions 
dont reflect the amount of time or number of attempts shed made when trying to call. An 
investigator looked at Miss Ks complaint. They thought BW Legal had made reasonable 
attempts to contact Miss K to discuss her account. The investigator thought BW Legal had 
dealt with Miss Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss K asked to 
appeal and reiterated that BW Legals response didnt reflect the efforts shed made to 
contact it and discuss her account. As Miss K asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
When BW Legal received instructions from S to collect the outstanding balance from Miss K 
it was given an address, email address and phone number for her. BW Legal went on to call 
Miss K, send emails and write to her at the address on provided by S. But the address S had 
on file wasnt up to date. So when no response was received, BW Legal completed a trace 
via the credit reference agencies and found another address for Miss K. BW Legal went on 
to send letters to that address. But when Miss K spoke with BW Legal via its online chat 
facility she gave her current address. So from that point, letters have been sent to Miss K. I 
appreciate letters werent sent to Miss Ks current address. But BW Legal was acting in line 
with its instructions from S then based on the information provided when it completed a trace 
via the credit reference agencies. Im satisfied that was a reasonable approach by BW Legal 
and that it updated Miss Ks address when she confirmed the correct details. 
Miss Ks told us that she found it very hard to contact BW Legal. I can see Miss K sent 
several emails which werent immediately responded to. BW Legals provided a copy of its 
automated response that says emails can take up to 14 days to be dealt with. BW Legals 
response said urgent enquiries should be made over the phone. Whilst I appreciate Miss K 
sent regular emails to BW Legal, Im satisfied it responded in line with the timescales given 
in its automated responses to Miss K. 
Miss K says she tried to call BW Legal on multiple occasions but was unable to speak with 
anyone. I dont doubt what Miss K has told us and that she found the situation to be very 
stressful. But once Miss K was able to update her address then access the online portal, she 
submitted a payment arrangement proposal which was quickly accepted. So whilst I 
appreciate there may have been difficulties speaking to BW Legal, Im satisfied Miss K was 
ultimately able to reach an agreement regarding the outstanding balance. 
BW Legal said it would call Miss K back on 3 February 2023 at 2pm but failed to do so. I can 
see BW Legal attempted to call Miss K on 4 February 2023 and left an answerphone 
message. A further attempt to speak with Miss K was made on 7 February 2023 and she 
called back the same day. During that call, the payment plan was confirmed. I agree that the 
call back wasnt made as promised. But Im satisfied BW Legals apology in its final 
response is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Miss Ks case. Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss K but I havent found grounds to tell BW Legal to take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman