DRN-3962226
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited (CBL).
What happened
In February 2022 Mr P entered into a conditional sale agreement for a used car costing 
£8,195. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr P undertook to 
make an advance payment of £820.00 followed by 60 monthly payments of £183.47  
making a total sum repayable of £11,828.20 at an APR of 18.4%. 
In August 2022 Mr P complained to CBL that:
the car would occasionally go into limp mode
the airbag light would occasionally illuminate
the parking sensors would occasionally fail to work
and that these issues should be repaired by CBL (or the supplying dealership) at no cost 
to him.
Shortly after receiving Mr Ps complaint, CBL instructed an independent engineer that I will 
call A to inspect the car. 
In August 2022 A, having inspected the car, issued CBL with its technical report (report). 
This report states that at the time of the inspection Mr P had travelled approximately 12,750 
miles in the car in six months. 
This report also states that none of the issues reported by Mr P could be replicated and A 
didnt hold the selling dealership (and therefore CBL) responsible for any (repair) costs.
In October 2022 CBL issued Mr P with a final response letter (FRL). Undercover of this 
FRL PBL said it was satisfied that it wasnt responsible for any of the repairs Mr P was 
looking to be undertaken.
Unhappy with CBLs FRL Mr P complained to our service.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons.
Mr P acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement with CBL. CBL is the owner of the 
car, until such time as Mr P makes all the repayments under the agreement. As owner, CBL 
is also the supplier of the car and as such its responsible for the quality of it at the point it 
was supplied. This is because the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term around 
satisfactory quality into the conditional sale agreement and the car should therefore be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr P. I think its important to note that CBLs obligations 
around the quality of the car apply to the time of supply. They dont apply to the general 
upkeep and maintenance, servicing or more general faults and repairs that are often 
required with cars as they age and increase in mileage. 
When considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality a number of things would usually 
be considered. In this instance, when considering the quality of a car, the age and mileage of 
the car at the time it was supplied are in my view key considerations. So, for example, a 
consumer would have, and rightly so, different expectations of a new car compared to a 
used and considerably cheaper car. 
In this instance Mr P was acquiring a used car that was over five years old and had travelled 
over 107,000 miles. As already mentioned above, a car of this age and mileage wouldnt be 
expected to be in the same condition as a brand new car, which would have cost 
considerably more than the price Mr P paid. Considering the age and mileage here it 
wouldnt be unreasonable to expect the car to be showing some signs of wear and tear. This 
would be in relation to its general overall appearance but also the underlying components. I 
would also add that CBL isnt responsible for all issues or faults with the car over the 60 
month period of the conditional sale agreement. CBLs responsibility is to provide a car that 
was of satisfactory quality and if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality it could then be liable 
for any costs or losses Mr P incurs. 
As Ive said above Ive had regard to everything that has been provided by both the parties 
to this complaint.
In support of his position, Mr P has provided two diagnostic reports (one dated 
February 2022 and one dated October 2022) and three pictures of his dashboard with one or 
more lights illuminated. 
In support of its position, CBL has provided the report issued by A.
The two diagnostic reports provided by Mr P dont elaborate on what the identified faults 
might be, whether they are current or historical, or whether they mean the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P. Also, the pictures Mr P has supplied of 
his dashboard simply show that at a particular point in time one or more lights were 
illuminated, nothing more. Furthermore, As report states There were no fault codes within 
the diagnostic systems related to the reported faults.
On the other hand, the inspection report issued by A sates quite clearly in my view that none 
of the reported faults could be replicated and the car, at the time of inspection, was fault free.Given what I say above and given Mr P appears to have travelled over 12,000 miles 
between the date of supply and the date of inspection Im not persuaded the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P. 
For the sake of completeness, I would add that I accept that the report from A states:
The steering wheel airbag was loose however no airbag warning light illuminated. The horn 
worked correctly.
But in the light of the report as a whole, and given what both parties have said and 
submitted, Im not persuaded this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr P.
I also accept that the report from A states:
The vehicle will require further investigation into the reported faults.
But given what the report says as a whole Im satisfied this doesnt mean CBL is obliged to 
carry out a further investigation. In my view it simply means that without further investigation 
A cant reasonably hold the supplying dealership (or CBL) responsible for any repairs to the 
car, or the cost of those repairs.
So, in summary, Im satisfied that CBL has done nothing wrong in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman