DRN-2933732
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic.  
 
Mr S, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
R held a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. It claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
  
Ageas said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of an occurrence 
of a human infectious or contagious disease at the premises, R had been impacted by the 
Government Act in response to the national pandemic. As Ageas thought Rs business had 
been impacted by the national lockdown, rather than because someone at its premises had 
Covid-19, Ageas turned down its claim. 
  
R was unhappy with Ageass response and brought its complaint to our service. It referred to 
the Supreme Court judgment following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case 
which it thought meant its claim should be paid. 
   
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
policy would only cover business interruption due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at Rs 
premises and he didnt think R had indicated that anyone at its premises had Covid-19. Our 
investigator didnt think the Supreme Court judgment impacted Rs claim because Rs policy 
required the disease to have been at its premises.    
  
R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It didnt think Covid-19 needed to 
have been at its premises in order for the policy to provide cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Rs business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Rs claim.   
  
The terms and conditions of Rs policy say:
The cover provided by this Section extends to include loss resulting from 
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of the 
occurrence at the Premises of murder suicide food or drink poisoning vermin 
pests defective sanitation or any human infectious or contagious disease 
(excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related 
condition) an outbreak of which the Local or Government Authority has stipulated 
shall be notified to them.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference to have been the result of a case of one of the listed events 
occurring at the premises. In this case the most relevant of the events is a human infectious 
or contagious disease. Covid-19 is a human infectious or contagious disease, so 
Ive then considered the information I have to decide if I think its more likely than not 
that there was a case of Covid-19 at Rs premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss which the 
policy covers. 
R hasnt indicated that anyone at its premises had Covid-19. Instead its business seems to 
have been impacted by the Governments actions in response to the national pandemic. R 
has referred to the disease terms considered by the Supreme Court. However, the disease 
terms considered by the Supreme Court required the disease to have been within a certain 
radius. Whereas, Rs policy required the occurrence of the disease to have been at its 
premises. As R hasnt indicated that anyone at its premises had Covid-19, I dont think this 
term provides cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome R was hoping for, but having considered this matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Ageas to pay Rs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman