DRN-3815036
The complaint
Mr H complains Prism Independent Financial Advisers Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says this may have 
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), 
or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they 
could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 and was later extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr H was concerned about what that announcement meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS. So he contacted Prism for advice. In November 2017 
Prism gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. It recorded Mr H 
wanted to transfer out of the BSPS because he had sufficient retirement income and 
wanted to retire early at age 59 to enjoy his retirement, and so he needed higher income 
until State Pension Age. It said he had significant capacity for loss, and wanted to control 
his pension funds due to his concerns about his employer and the PPF. Prism also carried 
out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious/balanced, or, 
low to medium.
On 28 November 2017, Prisms transfer recommendation report advised Mr H to transfer 
his pension benefits into a SIPP. It said the reasons for this recommendation were greater 
flexibility and control of his pension funds, greater flexibility for growth, and because Mr H 
had little confidence in his employer. Mr H followed this advice and transferred 
£348,268.05 from the BSPS to a SIPP.
Through our Service, in March 2022 Mr H complained to Prism that its transfer advice 
hadnt been suitable and might have caused him a financial loss.
Prism provided our Service with documents from the time of the advice. Prism said its 
advice started from the assumption that a transfer from a DB scheme was unsuitable. But 
Mr H wanted a clean break from the BSPS, and it wouldnt have given him enough money 
to retire at 59, pay off his debts, and have flexibility of income. Prism said it carried out a 
thorough financial advice process with Mr H, considered how best to meet his objectives, 
and explained the risks and benefits to him. And that Mr Hs objectives were strongly held, 
and he wanted to take advantage of an enhanced transfer value (CETV). So Prisms 
November 2017 advice to transfer was in Mr Hs best interests, and hed made a fully 
informed decision to accept that advice. Prism said it had been inspected by the regulator 
in December 2017 with no significant concerns. And soon after, Prism had itself asked 
another auditor to inspect its practices.
Mr H remained concerned and asked our Service to investigate. He said that at the time, 
thered been a lot of confusion and concern about the BSPS and the PPF. And hed hoped 
to retire early but this wasnt a definite plan and would only have happened if hed been 
made redundant. And that hed had other, smaller pensions he could have used to retire 
early anyway. Mr H said Prism had made flexible death benefits sound particular 
attractive. And that hed not retired yet, had no plans to do so, and hadnt drawn any 
pension funds.
This complaint came to me for consideration. On 14 October 2022 I issued my provisional 
decision. In summary, I said I appreciated Mr H was motivated to transfer out of the BSPS, 
and that retiring early, having control and flexibility of income, and the potential for higher 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded attractive to Mr H. 
But Prism wasnt there to simply arrange what Mr H might have thought he wanted  it 
was instead obliged to give him an objective picture and to recommend what was in his 
best interests.
I said Prisms advice to transfer was unsuitable. Because it meant Mr H was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, and he was likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits. And there were no reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this - Mr 
H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme based on an insubstantial 
wish to retire early and have control and flexibility of income. And the potential for higher 
death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. 
I said Prism should have advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2, given his particular 
circumstances and lack of certain retirement plans, and the more advantageous annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment under the BSPS2. I thought Prism should 
compensate Mr H for its unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology, and using the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 
at age 65 for comparison purposes.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision without providing any further comments or 
evidence, and chose to have redress calculated in line with the regulators current FG 17/9 
guidance.
Prism provided further comments in response to my provisional decision. Ive summarised 
what I see to be the relevant points it made:
I should fully consider what the Association of Pension Transfer Specialists 
(APTS) and the British Steel Action Group (BSAG) have said regarding BSPS 
and the regulator. 
Mr H couldnt keep his existing BSPS benefits  he needed to choose between 
moving to the BSPS2, moving to the PPF or transferring out, within a limited time 
and with no support from the existing scheme and regulators. And the BSPS2 
wasnt guaranteed to go ahead.
If Mr H had fallen into the PPF, he wouldnt have had any options going forward. 
And benefits were much reduced under the BSPS2 and the PPF. Whereas, the 
BSPS trustees had substantially enhanced the BSPS transfer values.
Mr H was very knowledgeable about the BSPS and didnt want to opt for BSPS2 or 
the PPF. Prism had challenged this and pointed out all the facts, options, 
advantages and disadvantages to Mr H. Id not taken account of Mr Hs objectives at the time of the advice, or his ability to make decisions for himself. And Mr H 
chose to transfer for the reasons he wrote on page 10 of the transfer 
recommendation report, which Mr H signed to confirm his understanding. 
Transferring to a personal pension was the most suitable option for Mr H as he 
wanted to retire early so he could enjoy retirement knowing his and his wifes other 
pensions provided sufficient guaranteed retirement income to cover their core 
expenditure.
Prism disagreed Mr H would likely receive benefits of a substantially lower value in 
his personal pension than in his DB scheme. It said no one could know the future, 
only past performance. That a critical yield of 5.13% at age 65 was achievable and 
had in fact been exceeded over the last four years. And that critical yield was only 
one aspect. 
Prism complied with PRIN6, PRIN7, COBS2.1.1R and COBS19.1.6. It met Mr H 
and his wife three times over six months. 
Prism fully explored death benefits and life insurance with Mr H, and he signed his 
understanding on the page of the transfer recommendation report which gave 
reasons against transferring, and a life insurance quote of £37 per month for Mr H. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint for same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. Ill set out my full reasoning for this below, addressing the points 
Prism made in response to my provisional decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Prism's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Prism 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was 
in Mr Hs best interests. 
I appreciate Prism says it complied with the rules and guidance, and that it had 
several meetings with Mr H and his wife. But having considered all of this and all 
the evidence in this case, Im not satisfied the transfer was in Mr Hs best 
interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
Prism says that the critical yields were achievable, as demonstrated by the past 
performance of the fund it recommended Mr H invest in and the growth Mr H has 
achieved since the advice was given. Ive considered this carefully, but I still dont think at 
the time of the advice Prism could reasonably say Mr H was likely to be better off by 
transferring out of the BSPS.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr H was age 51 at the time of the advice and Prism recorded that he wished to retire at 
age 59. Prism argues Mr Hs benefits were much reduced under the BSPS2 and the 
PPF, whereas, the BSPS CETV had been substantially enhanced at that time. I note 
what Prism says here. But the critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits available to 
him through the BSPS2 at age 59 was nonetheless 9.45% if he took a full pension and 
7.17% if he took tax free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. And the critical yield to 
match the benefits available through the PPF at age 59 was nonetheless quoted as 
6.45% per year if Mr H took a full pension and 5.13% per year if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension.
As Prism highlights, Mr H couldnt retain his existing BSPS benefits  he needed to 
choose between moving to the BSPS2, moving to the PPF or transferring his BSPS 
benefits elsewhere. I know Prism considers that there was a lack of support from the 
existing scheme and regulators, and it wants me to fully consider what the APTS and the 
BSAG have said about the BSPS situation. But ultimately, Mr H paid Prism for advice 
about his BSPS pension. And I must be clear that my role here is to consider Mr Hs 
individual complaint about Prisms 2017 advice - its not my role to comment on the 
actions of the scheme or the regulator, or on what other organisations have said about 
them.
Prism argues the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at the time of the advice. But 
I think Prism has overstated the chance of BSPS2 not happening. Because Mr H had 
received his Time to Choose pack by the time the advice was given. And details of 
BSPS2 had been provided and Mr H had been given the choice to opt into it. Of course, 
its possible BSPS2 might not have gone ahead, but that was unlikely to my mind.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, 
and was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement (age 65) and 3.4% for 7 years to retirement (age 59). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr 
Hs low to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the 
lowest critical yield was 5.13% (which was based on Mr H retiring at age 59 and taking 
benefits from the PPF), I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme if he retired at that age, as a result of investing in line 
with that attitude to risk. And this would be the case even if the scheme moved to the 
PPF.
Prism disagrees that Mr H would likely receive benefits of a substantially lower value in 
his personal pension than in his DB scheme. It says no one can know the future, only 
past performance. And that a critical yield of 5.13% at age 65 was achievable. But as 
Prism will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly 
over such a long period of time. And Mr Hs low to medium attitude to risk would have 
been more realistically reflected at some point between the regulators lower (2%) and 
middle (5%) projection rates. Furthermore, Prism quotes the rate applicable to age 65, 
and its advice was predicated on him retiring at age 59.
Prism also argues that a critical yield of 5.13% has been exceeded over the past four 
years. That may be the case, but this wasnt something Prism or Mr H could have known 
in 2017, and I need to base my decision on whether the advice was suitable at the time. 
In any case, thats a matter for the redress calculation  its possible that because of the 
performance achieved this may not show a loss. But this doesnt mean Prisms advice 
was suitable or that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Prism has provided cash flow models which it might think shows Mr H could have been 
significantly better off by transferring out of his DB scheme. Ive considered the cash flow 
models provided by Prism, but its difficult to understand these as presented. Because 
they dont seem to show a direct comparison between the escalating income Mr H was 
entitled to take through the BSPS2, and the same income being taken through the 
personal pension to his estimated death. Theres also no evidence of a stress test, 
showing how lower performance could affect the fund or income to death. Whilst this 
wasnt a requirement at the time, I think it was good practice to show customers the 
impact of poor investment performance on their retirement plans.
Given that I think Mr H was unlikely to be able to match, let alone exceed, his income in 
retirement if he transferred out, for this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice, as Prism has argued by saying that critical yield is only one 
aspect and that Mr H had compelling objectives to transfer to a personal pension. So, 
there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Prism argues Ive not taken enough account of Mr Hs objective of retiring at age 59 so he 
could enjoy retirement, and that he and his wifes other pensions provided sufficient 
guaranteed retirement income to cover their core expenditure. And that Mr H wanted to be able to withdraw higher income until State Pension Age, and then reduce it, so he 
needed flexibility that his DB scheme didnt provide.
But I dont think Mr H required flexibility in retirement. I say this because the documents 
from the time of the advice dont record any concrete need for retiring at age 59, for 
flexibility, or for repaying debts. I acknowledge the transfer recommendation report says 
one of Mr Hs objectives was to retire at age 59 to enjoy life at his leisure. I think if asked, 
most people would say retiring early and flexibility are desirable, but that doesnt mean 
they were genuine objectives for Mr H at the time of the advice. Mr H was 51 at the time 
of the advice so he had over seven years before he thought he might like to retire. And 
Ive not seen that Prism recorded any health concerns or other reasons why Mr H might 
not be able to enjoy his retirement if he left it closer to the scheme retirement date. So Im 
not satisfied that retiring at age 59 was a concrete plan Mr H was working towards, but 
rather was an idea that he had.
In any event, even if I accept Mr H definitely wanted to retire at age 59 (which wouldve 
coincided with Mrs Hs retirement at age 60) I also cant see evidence that Mr H had a 
strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. Prisms transfer 
recommendation report recorded that in retirement Mr H needed £2,055 per month, or 
£24,660 per year, of retirement income according to the information gathered by Prism. 
And that this amount included £1,663 per month, or £19,956 per year, of what Prism 
called discretionary spending. I think its fair to say that Mr H could choose whether to 
spend any or all of that discretionary spending. So, it follows that Mr Hs retirement income 
requirement couldve been less than £24,660 per year.
Nevertheless, Prisms transfer recommendation report says the BSPS2 would give Mr H 
an annual income of £13,503 per year from age 59 if he didnt take TFC. So even if it had it 
been Mr Hs certain plan to retire and have a pension income at age 59, which I dont think 
it was, his BSPS benefits would have provided sufficient income to meet his essential 
expenses as well some discretionary spending.
Mr H would also have had additional income from his three other pensions. Prism 
recorded these were worth £6,930, £7,014 and £9,482 at the time of the advice. And that 
Mr H and his employer were contributing a total of 36% per year to the one worth £6,930. 
Based on this, I think it would have been reasonable to conclude Mr Hs other pensions 
would be worth at least a total of about £93,000 by the time he was age 59 - and Mr H 
says the pension worth £6,930 at that time is now worth £100,000. Mr H could take 25% of 
this as TFC and couldve drawn down further sums if he needed extra income until his 
state pension became payable.
More importantly, Mrs H was entitled to take her DB scheme benefits at age 60 and this 
meant a further £12,343 was available to them, comfortably covering the £2,055 per 
month they thought they would need. All of this means that I think Mr and Mrs H had 
sufficient retirement income between them to meet both their core spending and their 
discretionary spending even if Mr H retired at age 59 and accessed his DB scheme 
benefits.
Im also mindful that Mr H told Prism that he expected he would downsize his home in 
retirement, meaning there also couldve been additional capital available to them to 
fund their early years of retirement.
Prism argues Mr H and his wifes other pensions provided sufficient guaranteed 
retirement income to cover their core expenditure if Mr H retired early. But I dont 
think that was a good enough reason to recommend Mr H transfer out of the BSPS, 
because I dont think it is reasonable to advise someone to give up the prospect of extra income just because they already have enough to cover their core expenses. 
Given that Mr H wanted to enjoy his retirement at his leisure, he couldve looked to 
use any excess retirement income for this purpose. Or he couldve looked to save it 
and make use of it in other ways, for example by placing it in trust for his adult 
children or making use of the annual gift allowances. 
At the time of the advice, Mr H was seven years away from his possible retirement, 
and this wasnt a concrete plan, so I dont think he shouldve been advised to make 
an irreversible decision to transfer out of the BSPS to have flexibility that he didnt 
really need. In my view, Mr Hs desire to access his pension didnt outweigh Prisms 
responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in his best interest. And even 
if Mr H did in fact have certain plans to retire at 59, which I dont think he did, I think 
he couldve met his objectives by taking his benefits under the BSPS2 and 
supplementing his income with his other pensions and his wifes pension. I know 
Prism says that if Mr H had moved with the BSPS to the PPF, he wouldnt have had 
any options going forward. But by opting into the BSPS2, Mr H wouldve retained the 
option to transfer out of the scheme at a later date, should his circumstances dictate 
that this was in his best interests.
Even if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, and Mr H moved with the scheme to the PPF, I 
still think he couldve met his income requirements through this scheme. Because 
Prisms transfer recommendation report said the PPF would give Mr H an annual 
income of £12,813 per year from age 59 if he didnt take TFC. And as Ive said, Mr H 
would also have had additional income from his other pensions and Mrs Hs pension. 
So even if it had it been Mr Hs certain plan to retire and have a pension income at 
age 59, which I dont think it was, his PPF benefits would have provided sufficient 
income to meet his core and discretionary spending. And while Prism highlights that 
Mr H would have lost the opportunity to transfer out of the PPF, I dont think Mr H 
would have needed this option.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I 
appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Prism 
explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr 
H was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been 
useful to his wife if Mr H predeceased her. I dont think Prism made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, Prism should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife or anyone else, 
which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained 
on his death, I think Prism shouldve instead recommended life insurance. Prism says 
it fully explored death benefits and life insurance with Mr H, and he signed his understanding on page eight of the transfer recommendation report. I see this page 
says Mr H could take out a Whole of Life policy with a sum assured of £350,000 at a 
monthly cost of approximately £374, subject to medical underwriting. Or that 
alternatively, Mr H could take out a level term assurance policy until his selected 
retirement date at age 59 with a sum assured of £350,000 at a monthly cost of 
approximately £37, subject to medical underwriting.
However, the transfer recommendation report doesnt detail anything else about this or 
why Mr H discounted these cover options. Its possible that paying for level term 
assurance until retirement at age 59 was discounted by Mr H because of the relatively 
short term. And I agree that this doesnt seem to be a reasonable recommendation given 
Mr H already enjoyed death in service benefits through his employer. And it seems likely 
Whole of Life cover was discounted by Mr H because of the likely monthly cost of 
£350,000 of cover. But I dont think that these were balanced ways of presenting life 
insurance to Mr H.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Hs pension benefits essentially assumed 
that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. 
Ultimately, Mr H wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife, which 
could be a lot less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. 
So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr H how much he would ideally like to 
leave to his wife or any other beneficiary, and how much he could afford to contribute. 
Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and would have 
enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think 
that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Hs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
Prisms transfer recommendation report said Mr H had lost trust in his employer and was 
worried his pension might fall into the PPF. Prism argues this means Mr H wanted a clean 
break from the BSPS, and that it discussed Mr Hs options with him and he made an 
informed decision to accept its advice to transfer.
I accept that when Mr H met with Prism, he was concerned about his employer and his 
pension, and may have been inclined to transfer out of the BSPS because of these 
concerns. However, it was Prisms obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interest. By the time the advice was given, it was likely 
that the BSPS would be moving to the PPF, but I think Prism should have explained that 
this was not as concerning as Mr H thought. As Ive explained above, Mr H was still 
unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out to a personal pension, particularly if he retired early.
So, I think Prism ought to have reassured Mr H that the possibility of his scheme moving 
to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. Furthermore, the scheme moving to the 
PPF was only one of the outcomes; by the time Mr H sought advice, hed been provided 
with the choice of remaining in the existing scheme or opting to join the BSPS2. As Ive said above, I think Mr H couldve met his retirement objectives by opting into the BSPS2, 
and by making use of his other pensions to bridge the gap until his State Pension was 
payable. So, I think the availability of the BSPS2 shouldve allayed his concerns about the 
PPF.
Although Prism argues Mr H wanted a clean break from his employer, which wouldnt be 
achieved by him opting into the BSPS2, its evident that he still worked for the same 
employer. And he hadnt suggested he intended to find alternative employment. He was 
also a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme via his employer. So, he 
wasnt going to be able to break ties with it by transferring, as he would remain tied to the 
employer in other respects. With regard to his distrust of the employers control over the 
pension scheme, I think it shouldve been mentioned that his employer and the BSPS2 
trustees were not entirely one and the same.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But 
Prism wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. Prisms 
role was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr H shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme to have a clean break from his employer and the BSPS  
particularly as this wouldnt be achieved by him transferring out given his remaining ties to 
it. And the potential for flexibility, control and death benefits wasnt, in my view, worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
Although Mr H expressed an interest in retiring at age 59, I think its possible he couldve 
chosen to continue working nearer to his normal retirement age. So, I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. Also, Mr H was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 
50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum 
was taken at retirement (if Mr H chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Prism 
shouldve advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Prisms 
advice. Prism argues Mr H was very knowledgeable about the BSPS and didnt want to opt 
for BSPS2 or the PPF. That Prism challenged this and pointed out all the facts, options, 
advantages and disadvantages to Mr H. But Mr H still chose to transfer. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Prisms advice. Ill explain why. I can see that 
while Prism was gathering information about Mr Hs circumstances, it emailed him to 
say that when hed had time to digest everything discussed so far, could Mr H please 
confirm whether he did or did not want to transfer out of the BSPS, and the reasons 
why. Mr H replied to say he did want to transfer out because of greater flexibility and 
control, greater potential for growth and his lack of confidence in the BSPS. But this was 
simply Mr Hs opinion, since Prism hadnt yet given him any advice, and Mr H was not 
an experienced investor or the professional here. And while Prism did set out the advantages and disadvantages of transferring, it nonetheless went on to clearly advise 
Mr H to transfer to a personal pension, in its transfer recommendation report. I dont 
think the weight of that recommendation to transfer out can be ignored.
As I say, Mr H was an inexperienced investor. And he had a low to medium attitude to 
risk and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Hs retirement provision. So, if 
Prism had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise 
he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best 
interests. If Prism had explained that Mr H could opt into the BSPS2 and that he was still 
unlikely to exceed his PPF benefits through a personal pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme against Prisms advice. 
In light of the above, I think Prism should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Prism to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Prisms unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed 
on 27 September 2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress 
methodology in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and 
fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some 
areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it 
continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation 
to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes 
place. But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting 
for their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that 
may come into force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his 
complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
Prism must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my final 
decision.
Prism may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme 
on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This 
amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date Prism receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Prism 
to pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prism deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Prism should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect Prism to carry out a calculation in line 
with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Prism Independent 
Financial Advisers Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Prism 
Independent Financial Advisers Ltd to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Prism 
Independent Financial Advisers Ltd to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Prism Independent Financial Advisers Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Prism 
Independent Financial Advisers Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Prism Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should provide details of its calculations 
to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman