DRN-2925972
The complaint
Ms H complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited, trading as John Lewis Finance, 
wont refund to her the money that she paid for a mobile phone. 
What happened
Ms H used her John Lewis Finance credit card in April 2020 to pay £294.99 for a refurbished 
mobile phone. She had an issue with the phone less than 30 days later so she complained 
to the supplier but it didnt respond to her. She phoned the manufacturer and it diagnosed a 
hardware issue. 
Ms H claimed a refund from John Lewis Finance under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. It paid her £30 compensation in August 2020 because of its delay in dealing with 
her claim and then paid her a further £20 as a gesture of goodwill. It said, in February 2021, 
that it was unable to prove that a refund was due using the evidence that Ms H had 
submitted  but it offered her a further £50 compensation. Ms H wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
phone wasnt of satisfactory quality and that John Lewis Finance should refund the cost of 
the phone, with interest, and pay Ms H the £50 that it had offered her.
John Lewis Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that Ms H has supplied evidence of a chat with the manufacturer which states that 
there was a hardware issue with the phone but its a diagnosis and not the independent 
report that was requested. It says that the evidence provided by Ms H cant be accepted as a 
physical inspection of the phone which is needed in order to detail and determine the fine 
details of the fault with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Ms Hs complaint about John Lewis Finance, I must be satisfied 
that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the 
phone and that John Lewis Finances response to her claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Ms Hs claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
Ms H bought the phone in April 2020 and she had an issue with it in May 2020 so 
she contacted the supplier but it didnt respond to her;
she phoned the manufacturers support service and it said that it had eliminated a 
software issue because it had assisted Ms H with a backup and restore of the phone 
and had reset the network settings, and that, as the issue persisted, it confirmed that 
there was a hardware issue with the phone;
John Lewis Finance clearly considers that Ms H should provide an independent 
report about the issue with the phone but I consider that the manufacturers diagnosis 
of a hardware issue is enough evidence to show that there was a fault with the phone 
in these circumstances;
the fault with the phone started less than 30 days after Ms H bought the phone and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality  I 
consider that to have been a breach of contract by the supplier for which John Lewis 
Finance is jointly liable under section 75;
Ms H has provided evidence to show that she bought another phone to replace the 
phone with the fault because it didnt work properly and that shes paid to John Lewis 
Finance the £294.99 cost of the phone; and
Im not persuaded that John Lewis Finances response to her claim has been fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
it to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for John Lewis Finance to refund to Ms H the 
£294.99 that she paid for the phone, with interest. These events have clearly caused 
distress and inconvenience for Ms H. John Lewis Finance has already paid her a total of £50 
compensation and it has offered her a further £50 compensation. Ms H says that she hasnt 
received the further £50 that shes been offered. 
I consider that a total of £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that Ms H has been caused. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
John Lewis Finance to pay to Ms H the further £50 compensation that its offered her so that 
it will then have paid her a total of £100 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint and I order John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited, trading as John Lewis Finance, to:
1. Pay £294.99 to Ms H to refund her for the cost of the phone.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Pay £50 compensation to Ms H.
HM Revenue & Customs requires John Lewis Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 2 above. John Lewis Finance must give Ms H a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman