DRN-3392810
The complaint
Miss G complains that a used car she acquired with finance provided by MotoNovo Finance 
Limited was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Miss G got this car in March 2021 under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) she took out with
MotoNovo. In early July 2021 the engine began to overheat and she took the car to a third
party garage (TPG). They found a crack in the coolant tank and replaced it but the car began
to overheat again the next day. Miss G was told the head gasket had failed and she
contacted the supplying dealer and MotoNovo.
An independent expert was instructed to inspect the car near the end of July 2021. He
agreed the head gasket had probably failed but considered this was wear and tear related
and would not have been present at point of sale. MotoNovo told Miss G the fault could have
resulted from driving style or maintenance issues and it wasnt responsible in this situation.
Unhappy with that response, Miss G brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She was satisfied that the car has a fault 
that occurred within six months and about 2,800 miles of supply - when the head gasket 
failed at around 62,000 miles. She thought this was below the expected life of this particular 
part  which should last at least 100,000 miles. And a reasonable person wouldnt expect to 
have this sort of issue within a few months of acquiring a car of this age, price and mileage. 
She noted the expert thought further investigation was needed to establish what caused the 
part to fail exactly. And she considered it is unlikely, on balance, that Miss G caused the 
failure  given the time she had the car and distance covered. 
The investigator was satisfied its more likely than not the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied and repairs at this stage would probably result in unreasonable delay 
and significant inconvenience to Miss G. She recommended MotoNovo should end the HPA 
and collect the car, at no additional cost to Miss G and refund the deposit paid and monthly 
repayments made from 7 July 2021 plus interest. She found MotoNovo should also pay Miss 
G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience and remove any adverse information 
from her credit file - and reimburse other reasonable expenses if Miss G provided proof of 
additional financial losses - such as the cost of alternative transport and/or work carried out 
to the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary, it
said the expert didnt think the car had a fault that was present at the point of supply and, 
whilst he confirmed the oil level was correct, he found no coolant in the system. MotoNovo
considers lack of coolant would contribute to head gasket failure and cars like this often
provide warnings when fluid levels are low. It thinks Miss G was probably alerted to the
problem and the head gasket failed due to a failure to maintain the car - which was her
responsibility.
Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons were not quite the same as the investigators however and I issued a provisional 
decision on 2 March 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out what I decided 
provisionally - and why - below, and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo supplied this car to Miss G under a HPA so it was required - under the Consumer
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - to ensure (amongst other things) that the car was of satisfactory
quality at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on
individual circumstances. In the case of a used car like this one, I think its reasonable to
take the age, cost and mileage into account.
Miss Gs car was four years old with nearly 60,000 miles on the clock when she got it and
the cash price was around £8,600 (according to the finance agreement). As such, I think a
reasonable person would accept that some parts would be worn and likely need to be
repaired or replaced sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid for a used car
compared to the price of a brand new vehicle. But, thats not to say Miss G didnt have a
reasonable expectation that this car and its parts would be reasonably durable.
There seems to be no dispute that the car broke down in July 2021  about four months after
Miss G got it  due to the failure of the head gasket. The TPG told Miss G that the cylinder
head had cracked and, on visual inspection, the expert found signs that the car had suffered
from a head gasket failure resulting in coolant being poured inside the vehicle bores due to
head gasket failure.
I think a head gasket would usually be expected to last for more than the 62,000 miles or so
this car had covered when it broke down. The expert seems to acknowledged this in his
report because he says the fault was unexpected in a car of this age and mileage. Im
satisfied, on balance, that its likely the head gasket in this car failed prematurely. And I
consider the crux of the matter here is what was the most likely cause of that.
I can see that expert concluded that this was probably wear and tear related and wouldnt
have been present when the car was supplied. But, I think that seems somewhat 
inconsistent with his finding that the failure of the part was premature. And I note he 
considered the engine would need to be stripped in order to establish the exact cause of the 
failure. Where evidence is inconclusive, inconsistent or contradictory like this, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect this part to fail in a car of this age and
mileage in the usual course of events. I understand MotoNovo considers the head gasket
probably failed due to a loss of coolant - which is something Miss G was responsible for as
part of routine vehicle maintenance  and shes likely to have had some warning because
the car would have been running poorly.
I accept the expert found no coolant in the car when he inspected but I note he says there
was a head gasket failure resulting in coolant loss - not the other way round. I dont think
the absence of coolant is surprising - given the nature of the breakdown. And, on the current
evidence, Im not persuaded this means that Miss G failed to maintain the car.
If the expert saw signs that this car wasnt maintained properly Id expect him to have said so
expressly in his report - but he doesnt. The TPG told our investigator the car was welllooked after. And Im satisfied that Miss G took the car to the TPG to be checked soon after
she noticed something was wrong  when the engine started to overheat. I think shes
unlikely to have ignored other signs that the car wasnt performing as it should - if theyd
been present before that. I also note that the expert was asked specifically if attending to the
condition sooner would have made any material difference and he says it would not.
Im satisfied that a head gasket is not a service item thats expected to wear out and be
replaced routinely. From the evidence Ive got, I cant reasonably conclude that its likely this
particular part failed because of something Miss G did - or didnt  do, during the relatively
short time she had the car. Taking everything into account, I find it is more likely than not this
part was insufficiently durable and the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Miss G got it.
Putting things right
The CRA says (broadly speaking) a supplier should usually be allowed one chance to fix
things, in this situation. But thats only if repairs wont cause undue delay or significant
inconvenience. Im satisfied that Miss G has experienced a good deal of inconvenience and
upset already as a result of being supplied with this faulty car. She had to take it to the TPG
more than once and shes been without her own transport for a time. I dont think its fair to 
expect Miss G to wait any longer for repairs in these particular circumstances. 
I find it is reasonable for MotoNovo to arrange to take the car back and refund the deposit 
Miss G paid (which was £1,000, according to the finance agreement). It looks as if the car 
hasnt been in a driveable condition since 7 July 2021 because the head gasket failed and I 
consider it is fair for MotoNovo to compensate Miss G for this loss of use.
Working out whats reasonable in this situation is not a scientific exercise. Miss G says she
had to pay for alternative transport while this car was off the road. I understand shed
like the cost of that refunded but she hasnt provided any documentary evidence of the cost
incurred. Like the investigator, Im inclined to find it is fair that Miss G should have any 
monthly payments she made towards the finance refunded from 7 July 2021  for the time 
she was unable to use the car. But, I think its right that Miss G should pay something for 
transport. And Im not persuaded it would be fair to require MotoNovo to reimburse the cost 
of alternative transport in addition to a refund of monthly payments  because this would 
mean that Miss G paid nothing for transport during the relevant time.
Miss G also told us she incurred some additional financial losses due to the breakdown and
the car being off the road. If Miss G paid to have the car recovered after the breakdown
and/or she paid for relevant diagnostic checks and/or repairs, then I think its fair she should
have the reasonable cost of this refunded. The investigator has explained that wed need to 
see evidence of this cost and asked Miss G to supply that but she hasnt sent in any 
additional paperwork. 
I cant reasonably require MotoNovo to reimburse losses in the absence of such evidence. 
But, I think its reasonable to allow Miss G a further opportunity to supply the evidence in 
question. And Im minded to find it fair that MotoNovo should reimburse reasonable costs of 
recovery, repairs and or checks provided Miss G is able to provide proof of payment.
I am satisfied that Miss G has likely been put to some trouble and experienced frustration
and upset as a result of what happened here. I think it is fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to
pay her £200 compensation to reflect that. And, if MotoNovo has recorded any adverse
information on Miss Gs credit file as a result of what happened, I find it is fair that should be
removed.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional conclusions and let me have any furthercomments or evidence by 16 March 2022 and Id consider all the evidence available after 
that and make my final decision.
The responses received from the parties 
MotoNovo disagrees with my provisional findings. It says (in summary):-
the repair to the coolant tank was carried out before the dealer had the chance to 
inspect; 
the car had covered 2,800 miles before the failure and wouldnt have been able to 
travel so far if the head gasket was faulty at the point of supply;
on the balance of probability, if Miss G had her vehicle looked at when she first 
became aware of this issue, its likely the fault could have been repaired before the 
head gasket failed; and
Miss G is responsible because she continued to drive the car with faults present 
causing the head gasket failure.
Miss G hasnt provided any further evidence in respect of recovery costs and diagnostic or 
similar checks. She sent us receipts for some different expenses  including car hire and a 
replacement car. She told us she also had to pay for public transport such as taxis but she 
didnt keep the receipts. And she says this matter has caused her a great deal of trouble and 
upset  so much so that she had to take time off work with stress and anxiety.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what MotoNovo has said. I dont think this raises any new points and it 
hasnt persuaded me to change my mind. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, 
I remain of the view its more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. Im not persuaded the head gasket failed as a result of something Miss G did or 
didnt do. And I think its fair she should be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund and 
compensation, in all of the circumstances. 
I have also considered Miss Gs comments and the additional evidence provided. I accept 
she probably had to pay for alternative transport when this car was off the road. But, for the 
reasons Ive given already, I cant reasonably require MotoNovo to cover both the cost of 
that and refund monthly payments. And I remain of the view its fair and reasonable overall 
for Miss G to have the monthly payments she made from 7 July 2021 refunded in order to 
compensate her for loss of use. 
I am sorry to hear about the difficult time Miss G had. I can see she was put to a good deal 
of trouble and upset and I have sympathy for the situation she found herself in. Taking 
everything into account, I remain of the view however that its fair for MotoNovo to pay her 
£200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of 
being supplied with this faulty car.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require MotoNovo 
Finance Limited to:-
1. end the HPA and collect the car at no additional cost to Miss G;
2. refund the deposit paid along with any monthly payments made from 7 July 2021;3. pay interest at 8% simple a year on any refunds, from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
4. pay Miss G £200 compensation for associated distress and inconvenience; and
5. remove any adverse information from her credit file. 
If MotoNovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss G how much it has taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman