DRN-2831912
The complaint
 Mrs W has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably refused to pay her
claims under her pet policy.
 
What happened
Mrs Ws cat required dental treatment from her vet. Shortly after the dental treatment Mrs
Ws cat developed a kidney illness, which also required treatment. When Mrs W claimed for
the cost of these treatments, UKI declined to her pay her claims.
UKI said Mrs W didnt arrange for the dental treatment to be done within the time limit
following her vets advice that it needed to be done in. Further, the subsequent kidney illness
was associated with the painkillers or anaesthetic used for the dental treatment.
Consequently, both claims were excluded from payment.
Mrs W felt very strongly that this was unfair and complained but UKI wouldnt change its
stance, so she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator initially was of the view that Mrs W didnt have the dental treatment done in
the correct time limit provided by the policy, so he thought UKI didnt do anything wrong in
refusing to pay that part of the claim. But he didnt think there was enough weight of
evidence to conclude the kidney illness was caused by the painkillers or anaesthetic after
the dental surgery so UKI should pay those treatment costs. On further submissions from
UKI, he was of the view that it was more likely the dental procedure caused the kidney
failure.
Mrs W didnt agree so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 May 2021 and I said the following:
I must point out the evidence in this matter is exceptionally finely balanced, but I am
persuaded by the veracity of Mrs Ws contention that her cat wasnt as monitored or
supervised as UKI would prefer to believe after the dental operation and therefore the
likelihood of another intervening factor could well have contributed to her cats kidney 
issues following the dental procedure. Ill explain why below.
First however, I agree that the costs of the dental procedure are correctly declined 
bearing in mind that Mrs W didnt agree with her vet then (she since changed vets) 
for pushing for dental procedures. Thats a matter between Mrs W and this vet and 
doesnt concern UKI. UKI are entitled to rely on the vet history so I dont consider it 
did anything wrong in relying on the entry from that vet for the purposes of starting 
the time running as to when Mrs W needed to have the dental treatment achieved in 
order to be entitled to make her claim.
The vet history mentions having a dental first on 19 November 2018, then the new 
vets mention on 5 April 2019, but it wasnt carried out until 20 November 2019.
Under the general conditions of the policy at the beginning of the policy document it 
says the following:
Your Pet must pay for your pet to have a dental health check every year 
and have any treatment recommended by the vet to prevent illness and injury 
carried out within three months of the recommendation. If this has not been 
carried out any claims relating or connected to this will not be covered.
Further in the policy document under Section 1 and whats not covered it says the 
following:
the cost of any treatment for root canal and crowns.
In the letter from Mrs Ws vet dated 19 December 2019, the vet clearly states that the 
dental treatment was involved one crown resection of one tooth under a short 
general anaesthetic. So, Im of the view that the procedure simply wasnt covered 
too.
My role and the role of this service to is assess whether UKI did anything wrong in its
decision to decline to pay the claim for dental costs given the terms and conditions of 
its policy. And clearly here, the type of procedure done plus the delay in doing the 
dental treatment means Mrs Ws claim for the dental costs wasnt covered by this 
policy. Therefore, I dont consider UKI did anything wrong in refusing to pay this 
element of Mrs Ws claim.
Turning now to the development of the kidney issue in Mrs Ws cat. I can very much
understand why UKI believe its caused by the dental operation namely being either 
the painkiller used or the anaesthetic, bearing in mind the initial vets notes in the 
history mentioning this. However, in its own notes on its file dated 14 January 2020 it 
says following receipt of the claim this:
I do feel the bloods before were fine and could have been triggered where 
under GA. Could GA be the cause or could it be something else altogether 
from when home from op to 7th. Lots of could bes.
Will get any up to date HX and refer to VNs for medical opinion.
Internet adv: Studies have shown that 0.9  2% of all patients that receive 
general anaesthetic will develop kidney dysfunction or failure 7-14 days after 
anaesthesia. This risk is significant reduced in patients that receive peri-
operative intravenous fluid therapy.
Is a low % and when pre OPS done before show level WNL. Need any up to 
date notes from December to date and will then do a VN referral.
Its clear from Mrs Ws vet in letter of 19 December 2019 that:
Currently it is being assumed that [cats name] symptoms are associated with 
the general anaesthetic and therefore not covered. The General Anaesthetic 
was short, she was supported throughout with fluid therapy and recovered 
uneventfully therefore there is no strong indication that it is associated.
Within UKIs file there isnt any formal sort of internal vet report but its clear following
discussion it decided the likely cause was from the dental operation. It relies heavily 
on the fact Mrs W said her cat was monitored when she was briefly let outside from 
5 December 2019. It said the following:Hx does not support that Lily has been outside, un monitored, long enough to 
either pick up and infection or ingest a toxin. If this had occurred and Lily had 
been monitored, we would have expected the customer to have noted this.
Mrs W strongly disputes UKIs reliance on the fact that her cat was let outside being 
closely monitored. Mrs W said quite clearly that her cat wasnt monitored beyond 
knowing when she went outside and when she came back in. It wasnt the case that 
Mrs W or a family member were outside with her throughout the time. Its also clear 
from the vet history that Mrs Ws cat was known to be an avid hunter and there are 
several entries for treatment of things like other cat bites and ticks etc indicating to 
me that the cat was indeed an avid hunter.
Im further persuaded by the following:
[Internal vet advisor assumed] still maintains, and I agree that there is 
nothing other than the GA / Metacam administration that we can with 100% 
certainty say has happened. The history does not support [name of cat] being 
in contact with any toxic ingestion as it shows that when she was let outside 
she was being monitored (hx 5/12/19). Due to [name of cat] only being 
outside briefly (hx 7/12/19) it is highly unlikely that she has been exposed to 
infection in that short space of time.
Ive also listened to the call recording between UKI and the vet and the vet, whilst
understanding UKIs point, is not saying she agrees with the outcome.
Given Mrs Ws account of how her cat was let outside and the heavy reliance by UKI 
on her cat not being let outside like Mrs W said she was, I dont think UKI have come 
to most the likely conclusion here. I obviously dont know what UKIs thought process 
would have been had it understood properly how Mrs Ws cat was let outside after 
the dental operation. But the implication above is that if the cat was unmonitored 
outside as Mrs W so strongly maintains, then UKIs vet opinion wouldnt have been 
so strong as the cause being solely down to the dental procedure.
I believe Mrs Ws account of what her cat did after the all clear was given on 5 
December as Ive no reason to disbelieve it and further in my own view its 
exceptionally difficult to monitor any cat outside in the way UKI have presumed, 
unless you have them in a harness and lead. That isnt the case here. So, I dont 
agree that Mrs Ws cat was as closely monitored as UKI assumed. That means the 
balance of probability as to the cause of the kidney failure, shifts considerably in my 
view as its perfectly possible that Mrs Ws cat picked up some toxin herself. 
Therefore, I dont consider it fair or reasonable to ignore the possibility of an
intervening factor as rigorously as UKI wants to, given Mrs Ws vehement detail on 
what monitoring meant which was simply noting when her cat went out and when she 
came back in. Further Im persuaded by UKIs very initial view detailed above as lots 
of could bes. This is also borne out by the vets own testimony in the call recording 
and in writing. So, in cases where the matter is unclear, I think its more reasonable 
to find in favour of the consumer rather than the insurer.
So, I think UKI should reconsider the claim for the kidney failure treatment in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions with a view to paying it. If Mrs W has 
already paid these vet fees, then UKI should add interest of 8% simple from the date 
Mrs W paid these vet fees.Mrs W had nothing further to add. UKI was disappointed with my decision as said it was 
entitled to rely on the vet information and the vets are fully aware of their duties in this and 
thats what its original decision was relying on too.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view the evidence is very finely balanced here. 
However, what persuades me to find in Mrs Ws favour as regards the claim for the kidney 
illness, is the particular and overly heavy reliance on the fact that UKI believes Mrs Ws cat 
was monitored when outside. Its that reliance which permits it to decide the claim isnt 
covered. Its clear from its notes that UKI is much persuaded by this monitoring which 
indicates to me that if there was no such monitoring of the cat as suggested, it would not feel 
as confident in its decision to refuse to pay this part of Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W has persuaded me that this level of monitoring as decided by UKI wasnt actually 
what happened. Thats borne out by the fact that on discharge of the cat, the vet says in the 
entry of 5 December 2019 that the cat can go outside. Further there was no advice given as 
to monitoring. This is subsequently reiterated in the letter from the vet to UKI of 19 
December 2019 where its said on 5 December 2019, the cat is then allowed to go back to 
normal routine. 
Given this, I consider it then dilutes UKIs opinion of the level of monitoring considerably. 
That in turn increases the likelihood of an intervening factor, which I dont think can be as 
discounted as much as UKI would like.
Therefore, I consider its fair and reasonable to pay the claim for the kidney treatment as I 
detailed in my provisional decision.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that Im upholding this decision in
part.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Reassess Mrs Ws claim for the costs of treating her cat for the kidney failure under 
the remaining terms and conditions of her policy with a view to paying it.
If Mrs W has paid these vet fees, add interest of 8% simple from the date Mrs W paid 
the vet fees to the date of its reimbursement. If income tax is to be deducted from the 
interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mrs W for HMRC 
purposes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman