DRN-3869769
The complaint
Mrs W complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited, trading as 
Scottish Provident (RL) unfairly declined the claim she made on her critical illness policy.
What happened
Mrs W suffers from medical conditions which have a significant ongoing impact on her daily 
life, and which limit her independence.  Shed bought a policy from RL a number of years 
before these conditions arose, which provided life and critical illness cover.  So, in early 
2022, she contacted RL and requested a claim form to make a claim under the critical illness 
category loss of independent existence.
There were initial delays in sending Mrs W a claim form, and RL provided incorrect 
information about their processes.  Mrs W complained about this.  RL accepted their service 
had fallen below an acceptable standard and paid Mrs W £150 compensation for this.
Mrs W completed and returned the claim form.  RL considered the claim but declined it.  
They explained that the medical evidence theyd received didnt show Mrs W met the criteria 
set out in the policy for loss of independent existence.
Mrs W complained about RLs decision, and about the amount of time theyd taken to reach 
it.  RL investigated.  They didnt change their claim decision.  But they asked their claims 
assessors to review it under their appeals process.  And they said theyd dealt with her 
emails in line with their service standards.
Mrs W didnt accept RLs response and brought the matter to our service.  Shortly after this, 
RL wrote to Mrs W with the outcome of her appeal. 
RL confirmed their decision was correct, based on the medical information theyd received.  
But they noted Mrs W had explained she suffers from a phobia of medical professionals.  
They suggested they arrange for an assessment by an independent medical professional, 
who could assess whether Mrs W fulfilled the policy criteria.  And they assured Mrs W theyd 
make them aware of her phobia so the information could be gathered sympathetically.
Mrs W didnt want to pursue this option.  She told us she thought RL should assess, and 
settle, her claim on the basis of the information theyd been able to gather from various 
sources  which included her GP and DWP assessments.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded RL didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  She noted that Mrs W had provided a good deal of evidence about her medical 
conditions.  But it didnt evidence the criteria against which RL assess the claim.  And, 
although she noted Mrs Ws difficulties in dealing with medical professionals, she thought it 
was reasonable for RL to have objective evidence on which to make their assessment. 
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.  I know shell find this upsetting and 
Im sorry about that.  I hope it will her to understand my decision if I explain the reasons why 
Ive made it.
In relation to delay, I can see that Mrs W submitted a claim in late March.  RL wrote to her 
with their decision eight weeks later in mid-June.  Before that, RL needed to gather and 
consider information about her medical condition.  Nothing Ive seen has shown there was 
any undue delay in doing this.  So, while I appreciate Mrs W wanted a quick response, I 
dont think RL need to do any more on this aspect of the complaint.
Its clear that the conditions Mrs W suffers from cause her a great deal of pain.  Ive no doubt 
from all Ive read that makes daily life extremely difficult.  And I understand why she wants to 
make a claim on her RL policy.  But I can only say that RL should review the decision 
theyve made if I think how theyve assessed her claim is unfair.
The policy document explains what RL will do if they receive a claim.  Paragraph 3.2 of the 
policy provisions says:
We will examine each claim for payment of a benefit and will decide whether it can be 
accepted as an event assured under the policy.  In order to make a decision, we will seek 
confirmation by an appropriate medical specialist that your claim satisfies the appropriate 
definition.
In arriving at our decision, we may request, and will take into account, such evidence and 
information as we consider to be relevant.
Im satisfied that makes it clear RL will gather evidence before paying a claim.  And that its 
up to them what type of evidence that is.
Mrs Ws claim was made under the loss of independent existence heading.  This is defined 
as:
Becoming permanently disabled according to all the requirements of either of the following 
definitions:
i) Life tasks
Becoming permanently disabled:
through ageing, illness or injury;
to the extent of being unable to perform any 3 of the 6 life tasks listed below without 
the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive aids and 
appliances; and
the disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement.
The six life tasks are washing, dressing, transferring, mobility, continence and feeding.  And I 
think the limit (not being able to undertake three of the six) is clear.
I can see RL based their decision on this definition.  I think thats fair.  Its clear from their 
letter declining the claim that theyd assessed evidence from Mrs Ws GP, physiotherapist, 
and a consultant shed seen in relation to a knee issue to reach their conclusion.Mrs W challenged that decision.  This led to RL offering an appointment with an occupational 
therapist to assess her ability specifically in relation to those tasks.  Mrs W has rejected that 
suggestion.
Ive thought very carefully about this point.  I understand Mrs Ws concerns that her phobia 
will be triggered by an assessment.  And Ive noted her view that the evidence shes 
supplied is objective  so RL should use it to make their decision.
Ive looked at the evidence.  Some (such as the GPs notes) is based on information from 
Mrs W.  So I understand why RL dont feel this is objective.  Other documents have been 
created for other purposes and dont answer the specific questions about the life tasks.  So I 
dont think its unreasonable for RL to decide they dont satisfy their purposes.
Mrs W has said RL should make adjustments because of the problems she has dealing with 
medical professionals.  Businesses do have to make adjustments to their processes to 
ensure that customers can access their services.  
But those adjustments need to be reasonable.  In this case, RL have reviewed their claim 
decision once.  And theyve given Mrs W options to provide the information they need to do 
so again.  While I appreciate the stress thats likely to cause Mrs W, I dont think its fair for 
me to say RL should accept the claim without satisfying themselves its valid.  And so  while 
Im sorry it will cause Mrs W further upset  I dont think RL need to do any more to resolve 
her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited, trading as Scottish Provident.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman