DRN-3394907
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service she received after she contacted Lloyds Bank PLC
(Lloyds) for support due to Covid-19.
What happened
Mrs M had two credit card accounts with Lloyds.
The first account was opened in February 2016. It benefitted from a promotional interest rate
of 0% which ran for 30 months on balance transfers and 12 months on purchases. Ill call
this Account 1.
The second account was opened in April 2020. It benefitted from a promotional interest rate
of 0% which ran for 16 months on balance transfers and six months on purchases. Ill call
this Account 2.
In June 2020, Mrs M contacted Lloyds and said that she was struggling financially. Her
accounts were up to date at that point. She explained that her income had been affected by
Covid-19. By this time, the promotional interest rate on Account 1 had expired. Lloyds
suggested a long-term arrangement, but Mrs M didnt want her credit file to be negatively
affected, so her accounts were placed on hold temporarily instead.
Lloyds spoke to Mrs M again in July 2020 and some further options were discussed. Lloyds
offered a payment holiday, but Mrs M was worried about interest accruing, so didnt want to
pursue that option. Lloyds suggested a repayment plan and agreed to send Mrs M an
Income and Expenditure form for her to complete. Lloyds also discussed the possibility of
transferring the balance from Account 1 to Account 2 so that Mrs M could benefit from the
0% interest rate. Lloyds said that Mrs M needed to speak to the credit card team to put this
in place. It was agreed that the hold on both accounts would be extended by 30 days.
Mrs M spoke to the credit card team, but it turned out that the balance transfer wasnt
possible. She completed the Income and Expenditure form and returned it to Lloyds. It
showed that her income was less than her outgoings. Mrs M proposed a payment of £0.50
per month. She says she didnt hear anything from Lloyds until August 2020, when it sent
her a Default Notice in relation to Account 2.
Mrs M complained to Lloyds in September 2020. She said it had given her poor advice and
that her credit file had been negatively impacted. She said that, as a result, she couldnt get
a mobile phone contract which she needed for work. She said she couldnt afford the interest
on Account 1 and that she should have been offered support. She was unhappy that Lloyds
had told her she could do a balance transfer, only to find out later that it wasnt possible.
Lloyds partially upheld Mrs Ms complaint. It apologised for giving her incorrect information
about the balance transfer options. And it said that it should have put a payment holiday in
place on Account 2. If this had happened, Mrs M could have missed three payments without
any interest being applied and without any impact on her credit file. Lloyds paid Mrs M £75 to
make up for the inconvenience and upset caused. It also offered to cover her call costs. And
it removed the late payment marker for this account from Mrs Ms credit file.
But, in relation to Account 1, Lloyds said that Mrs M had declined a payment holiday
because of concerns about interest. Lloyds said it had made Mrs M aware that if she missed
a payment, it would be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies. It said it had correctly
reported a late payment for July 2020 and couldnt remove this.
Lloyds said that it had put a note on both Mrs Ms accounts to say that, if she were to apply
for a payment holiday at that stage, it should be considered. Following this, Mrs M applied
for payment holidays on both accounts. Her applications were declined. The letters from
Lloyds said There could be a number of reasons for this, for example you may have missed
some credit card payments.
Account 2 was defaulted in December 2020 and sold to a debt purchasing company. Mrs M
resumed payments on Account 1 in November 2020. The balance was cleared in July 2021
and that account is now closed.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the situation and came to this service. I issued a provisional 
decision on 16 March 2022 indicating my intention to uphold this complaint. Lloyds accepted 
my provisional findings. Mrs M raised some further points for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance which said that firms
should offer a payment holiday of up to three months to customers who were negatively
impacted by coronavirus. It said that customers credit files shouldnt be affected by taking a
payment holiday. These measures were extended in July 2020, when the FCA said that
firms should extend payment holidays by up to three more months for customers who were
still struggling.
Mrs M was clearly impacted by coronavirus and its not in dispute that she contacted Lloyds
as a direct result of the effect it was having on her income. Her accounts were both up to
date at the time. She was proactively contacting Lloyds, trying to manage her finances
responsibly. The different interest rates meant that the implications of a payment holiday
were different for each account. Ill look at each account in turn, starting with Account 2.
Account 2
I think that Lloyds ought to have offered a payment holiday to Mrs M when she first
contacted it in June 2020. I understand that she was concerned about interest building up.
But, as Lloyds now accepts, that wasnt relevant to Account 2 because it was on a 0%
interest rate at the time. If Mrs M been advised correctly at the time, I find it likely that she
would have agreed to a payment holiday. So it could have been in place from July to
September 2020. Mrs M wouldnt have had to make any payments during this time, no
interest would have been applied to her account and her credit file wouldnt have been
impacted. So Mrs M would have been in a better position with a payment holiday.
Under the FCA extended guidance, Mrs M could then have applied to extend the paymentholiday by up to three more months. She did apply for a payment holiday in September
2020, but her application was declined. I understand this was because of missed payments
on her account. But, if Mrs M had been on a payment holiday from July 2020 (which Lloyds
accepts ought to have happened), her account wouldnt have been viewed negatively and I
find it likely shed have been eligible for an extended payment holiday. So, Mrs M has
suffered twice here as a result of Lloyds original mistake.
To put things right, I think Lloyds should apply the FCA guidance retrospectively in relation to
Account 2. Im aware that it has already removed some missed payment markers from Mrs
M s credit file. But I think it should remove all adverse information reported to the Credit
Reference Agencies from June 2020 to December 2020. Im not aware of what happened to
the account after December 2020 as it was transferred to a third party at that point.
From the information Ive seen, no interest or charges were applied to this account by
Lloyds, so I dont think it needs to do anything in that respect.
Account 1
As above, I think Mrs M would have been eligible for a payment holiday on this account
when she first contacted Lloyds in June 2020. The difference with this account is that the 0%
interest rate had ended. Mrs M was concerned about interest building up, so she didnt want
to pursue the payment holiday. But she was also concerned about negative reporting on her
credit file, which would have been avoided with a payment holiday.
Im satisfied that it was Mrs M who decided not to pursue the payment holiday option in the
July call. So I dont find that Lloyds did anything wrong by not putting a payment holiday in
place at that time. But I think its relevant that, when Mrs M said she didnt want to take a
payment holiday, she thought there were other options available to her. These were a
balance transfer to Account 2 or, failing that, a repayment plan.
Mrs M later found out that the balance transfer wasnt possible. She says Lloyds told her that
if she didnt make payment before the end of July, her credit file would be impacted. So she
says she completed and returned the Income and Expenditure form as soon as she received
it so that the issue could be resolved in time. Mrs M says she didnt hear anything back. Im
satisfied that Lloyds received the completed Income and Expenditure form. But I havent
seen any evidence that it responded to it in any way. I dont think that was reasonable.
Lloyds says that it couldnt offer Mrs M a repayment plan as her outgoings were more than
her income. I think thats a reasonable stance, as the information Mrs M provided showed
that she couldnt afford to make repayments. But I dont think it was fair that this wasnt
communicated to Mrs M at the time.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M didnt make the July payment and that shed been told it would
be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies if she missed it. But she was waiting to hear
back from Lloyds, having proactively contacted it in June to seek support. The completed
Income and Expenditure form doesnt appear to have been received by Lloyds until August.
But Ive no reason to doubt Mrs M when she says she returned it in July. At that stage of the
pandemic, I find it likely that there were delays in receiving and processing post. But I dont
think Mrs M should be worse off as a result. Shed done what Lloyds asked by returning the
form. And shed made it clear that she couldnt afford the normal monthly payments. In the
circumstances, Im not sure what else Mrs M could have done in the absence of any contact
from Lloyds.
Its not possible to say what would have happened if Lloyds had told Mrs M that it couldnt
put a repayment plan in place, or if shed been advised correctly about a payment holiday onAccount 2 at the time. But I think its possible that, in those circumstances, she might have
decided to take a payment holiday on Account 1.
Lloyds final response letter said that Mrs M could apply for a payment holiday, which she
did. She was prepared to take a payment holiday at that stage, when it was apparent there
were no other options. I think this suggests that, if shed known in June or July that the
balance transfer and repayment plan werent possible, she would have taken the payment
holiday option then. When her September payment holiday application was declined, Mrs M
set up a Direct Debit again and resumed minimum payments from November 2020.
Taking all of the above into account, I think the fair outcome would be for Lloyds to remove
any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from June 2020 to
November 2020 for Account 1.
Mrs M is unhappy about the rate of interest which she was charged after the promotional
rate ended. I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by applying the contractual interest rate.
But, in any event, I note that it didnt apply any interest to Mrs Ms account from June 2020
until April 2021. So, effectively, the 0% interest rate was extended by ten months. I think that
was fair, so Im not going to ask Lloyds to do any more about the interest.
I note that Mrs M missed a payment in May 2021. That was when interest began to be
applied to the account. If Lloyds reported this as a missed payment, Im not going to ask it to
change that. Lloyds letter of 29 October 2020 made it clear that, when the interest freeze 
was removed, the monthly payment would include interest. It said that any missed payments
would show on Mrs Ms credit file as having been missed.
overall impact on Mrs Ms finances
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs M said that, at the time this was all happening, 
all credit card offers were withdrawn by the industry. She said this meant she couldnt use 
offers to manage her finances and was left with crippling interest on her debt which was 
unmanageable. She also said that, once credit card offers started to become available 
again, she couldnt benefit from them because of the state of her credit file.
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said and I sympathise with her situation. But Im only 
looking at the actions of Lloyds here and I cant fairly ask Lloyds to do anything about the 
fact that there werent offers available to Mrs M in the market. 
When Mrs M opened the accounts with Lloyds, she agreed to be bound by the terms and 
conditions of those accounts. I havent seen anything to indicate that Lloyds acted outside 
the terms and conditions in the way it applied interest or the rate of interest it charged. 
Account 2 was on a 0% interest rate. And, as I found above, Lloyds didnt charge any 
interest on Account 1 until April 2021. I think that was fair and I dont think Lloyds needs to 
do any more in this respect.
Mrs M paid off Account 1 in July 2021. This was only shortly after Lloyds began to apply 
interest to the account. So I dont find that Mrs M suffered any significant detriment in terms 
of not being able to benefit from offers from other providers. 
Account 2 was defaulted, meaning no interest or charges were applied from that point. And 
none had been applied beforehand. No payments were being made and Lloyds says it 
couldnt offer a repayment plan where a customers outgoings are more than their income, 
as explained above. I realise Mrs M is unhappy about the account being transferred to a 
third party. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to do that in the circumstances.conclusion
In conclusion, I think Lloyds could have dealt with Mrs Ms request for support more 
appropriately. It should have offered payment holidays when Mrs M first made contact and it 
should have made it clear that no interest would be applied to Account 2. In relation to
Account 1, it should have given Mrs M correct information about the options. And it should
have contacted her about the Income and Expenditure form. At that point, further options
could have been discussed and I think that would have put Mrs M in a better position.
I dont think Mrs M should be worse off as a result of Lloyds mistakes. And I can appreciate
the distress and inconvenience they caused her. In addition to removing adverse information
from her credit file as set out above, I think Lloyds should pay Mrs M compensation of £200.
As it has already paid £75, it will need to pay a further £125 now.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should:
remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from
June 2020 to December 2020 for Account 2;
remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from
June 2020 to November 2020 for Account 1; and
pay Mrs M further compensation of £125.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman