DRN-3356447
The complaint
Ms K complains Santander UK plc (Santander) unfairly changed their porting criteria on her 
mortgage account.
What happened
Ms K says she telephoned Santander in late January 2021 to discuss porting her mortgage 
standing at around £200,000 as she was considering moving to a new house at that time. 
Ms K says Santander originally agreed she could port her mortgage up to 50% of the value 
of the new property she was looking to purchase, subject to a minimum equity available of 
£150,000. This would equate to a new mortgage of £185,000 on an interest only basis, with 
the residual mortgage borrowing of £15,000 on a capital and interest repayment basis.
Ms K says when she telephoned Santander in early March 2021, having made an offer on a 
property she was then told by Santander its lending criteria had changed and the interest 
only element on her new mortgage, would be subject to a minimum equity requirement on 
the new property of £250,000. This meant the amount of the interest only mortgage element 
she could now port would be only £130,000, and any additional borrowing would need to be 
taken on a capital and interest repayment basis. Ms K says this meant her monthly 
repayments would increase substantially. With that in mind Mrs K says she was left with little 
option other than to rearrange her finances and reduce her mortgage borrowing to £130,000, 
resulting in her having to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of approximately £3,500 on 
the £70,000 she repaid. 
Ms K says she wouldnt have moved home when she did, if she had known Santander were 
going to change its lending criteria and not allow her to port her mortgage as they had 
originally agreed to. Ms K is unhappy she has had to use a large element of her savings to 
buy her new property and thinks its unfair Santander charged her the ERC and she wants 
this refunded. 
Santander says from the time Ms K originally contacted them in January 2021 to her formal 
application for the mortgage in March 2021, its policy had changed on interest only 
mortgages - where the repayment vehicle is from the sale of the property, the equity buffer 
must be at least £250,000. Santander says there was no requirement to inform customers of 
any changes to its policy.   
Ms K wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says when Ms K contacted Santander in January 2021, it was made clear her 
mortgage wasnt guaranteed and it was subject to a formal application and subject to its 
criteria at that time.  The investigator says this was also stated in Ms Ks existing mortgage 
terms and conditions if she were to move home, and the investigator didnt agree Santander 
had agreed to port all of her mortgage. 
The investigator says the ERC was fairly charged by Santander, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage Ms K took out with them in 2018. 
Ms K didnt agree with the investigator and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms K to have believed she could port a 
larger element of her mortgage on the existing terms, only to find that Santander had 
changed its lending criteria and that now couldnt be done. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted unreasonably, by changing 
its lending criteria surrounding interest only mortgages and by charging Ms K the ERC it did. 
Ms Ks complaint centres around two main issues - how Santander can suddenly change its 
lending criteria and why she should have to pay an ERC when she was looking to transfer 
her existing mortgage, which was portable.
Its worth saying, porting a mortgage is when a lender agrees to allow their customers to 
transfer a mortgage product from one property to another, in most cases when moving 
home, without any ERCs payable. So, its not so much the mortgage itself thats being 
ported (transferred) its the mortgage product  here the fixed interest rate product. 
Having listened to the telephone calls provided to this service, its fair to say the first call Ms 
K makes in January 2021 is more of an exploratory nature, where Santanders member of 
staff gives out indicative terms and conditions  I say this as no formal application is made at 
that time and no specific property details are discussed. In that call the member of staff does 
explain to Ms K that an application is required, and a mortgage application is not 
guaranteed, but it would always be considered. While Ms Ks potential mortgage 
requirements were discussed and she was told she met the criteria to port her mortgage up 
to £185,000 on an interest only basis, it was explained this was always going to be subject to 
a formal application. 
Ms K has told this service shes not sure why a formal application was needed if her original 
mortgage was portable. As I have mentioned earlier it is the mortgage interest product that is 
portable, but thats not to say Santander wouldnt need to consider various other lending 
criteria when considering the mortgage request, such as the new property details or any 
changes in Ms Ks financial circumstances, for example. So, its fair to say any move of 
property would be subject to a full mortgage application.
Its also worth mentioning as the investigator has pointed out, under the terms and condition 
of Ms Ks existing mortgage she took out in 2018 it says: 
What happens if you want to move house?
If you move house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to a new property you are 
buying. You must meet the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet under 
Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. You must also meet our lending criteria and pass 
our affordability assessment at the time.
So with that in mind I am satisfied Ms K would need to formally apply for a mortgage when she looked to move home, but here Santanders lending criteria had changed since Ms K 
first enquired about it in January 2021 to when she formally made an application in March 
2021. 
While I know Ms K thinks this is unreasonable, its not for me to tell Santander it cant 
change its lending policy, or how often it can do so. What is fair to say is any request for 
mortgage funding is always subject to the terms and conditions, policy and criteria at the 
time of application.
At the time Ms K applied formally for a mortgage in March 2021, Santander had changed its 
lending criteria on interest only mortgages, where a minimum equity of £250,000 was 
required on the purchase property, from the previous requirement of £150,000, which meant 
Ms K could now only borrow £130,000 on an interest only basis. While I can understand 
borrowing additional funds on a capital and interest repayment basis would be potentially 
unaffordable for Ms K, given she needed to pay this over approximately seven years, it was 
ultimately her decision not to take up this option. 
As a result, Ms K was left to pay an ERC of approximately £3,500 on the element of £70,000 
she was not porting, and I am satisfied that has been charged in line with the terms and 
conditions of her existing mortgage agreement dated 2018. With that in mind I cant say 
Santander have unfairly charged the ERC here. 
While Ms K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman