DRN-2878470
Complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
  
Background
Mr H bought the policy in 2000, a few weeks after he took out a credit card. It was taken out 
during a telephone conversation with an adviser.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In 
summary, Barclays said Mr H had the opportunity to apply for PPI at the time of completing 
the credit card postal application, but he chose not to. It also said Mr H used his card for the 
first time one week before the PPI was sold, so he would have known it was not a 
requirement to have it for the card to be accepted. So the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
At the time of the sale taking place, Barclays had to make it clear that the policy was 
optional, and it had to gain Mr Hs consent before applying PPI to his account. But Mr H says 
he didnt understand it, it was not explained that the product was optional and although he 
didnt need the policy, he was pressured into taking it out. 
Mr H took out his credit card by postal application. Barclays has provided us with a copy of 
the application form. Having looked at it, Mr H was given an option to tick for PPI if he 
wanted to take it out. On Mr Hs completed application form he left the section blank. 
Just over one week after his credit card had been opened, Barclays has said a telephone 
conversation took place with Mr H and PPI was then added to Mr Hs credit card account. 
But its not clear whether Barclays called Mr H or Mr H had called in. And Barclays doesnt 
have a call recording, a transcript of the call or a sales script that its adviser might have used 
when it sold the PPI. So Ive thought about what both Mr H and Barclays have said and 
looked at the information available.
Barclays has said its adviser would have assessed Mr Hs circumstances and requirements 
following the relevant codes of practice at the time. It says that the adviser wouldnt have 
influenced Mr Hs decision to take out PPI. In addition, it has said that the PPI would have 
shown on his credit card statements until it was cancelled  firstly as PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PLAN and from 2008 as OPTIONAL PAYMENT. And the policy terms 
and conditions showed he had the option to cancel the policy at any time. 
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays has said, including the information it has sent 
about the codes of practice governing the selling of PPI that it says it followed at the time. 
And whilst I am mindful that a significant amount of time has passed since the sale, I havent 
seen anything to show me how the policy was presented on the telephone call. I think this is 
particularly important in this case given that Mr H didnt indicate he wanted PPI when he took 
out the credit card, yet a short time later, after likely being given the same information about 
the policy, he changed his mind and it was added to his account.) 
Mr H had the card for a number of years before his credit card statements indicated the 
policy was optional, so Barclays comments about his statements have not persuaded me 
Mr H would have known he didnt need to have it. And I dont know that Mr H would have 
read the full terms and conditions of the policy, to easily identify that he could cancel it. 
Mr H had only used the card once before the call took place  I think its reasonable he may 
still have thought he had to have it if Barclays called him about it shortly after. So, as I dont 
have any evidence to demonstrate what the adviser should have said during the call and   
Mr H chose not to take PPI when he was asked initially, Im not persuaded I can fairly say it 
is more likely than not that Mr H was given a clear choice about PPI.
So I think its fair to uphold the complaint.
  
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr H would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr H owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Barclays works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI     
Mr H paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr H wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year
C. Barclays should tell Mr H what its done to work out A and B.
I can see that Barclays has already paid Mr H compensation for undisclosed commission on 
the premiums he paid for his PPI policy. Barclays can take off this amount from the 
additional redress due.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman