DRN-3021256
The complaint
Mr E has complained Nationwide Building Society did little to help when he complained 
about the condition of a leather jacket hed bought with his Nationwide credit card.
What happened
Mr E bought a leather jacket in early 2020 when he was abroad on holiday. After a couple of 
days he noticed it was slightly damaged and had been repaired professionally. However he 
hadnt got what hed paid for  a brand new leather jacket  so complained to the shop.
He was given an address to return the jacket to and was reassured hed then be refunded in 
full. Mr E posted the jacket off but it got returned to him some weeks later.
Mr E then raised his complaint with Nationwide as hed used their credit card to buy the 
jacket. They felt there was little chance of success in getting Mr E a refund through the card 
scheme chargeback rules. They told him there was nothing they could do to help.
Mr E brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. After reviewing the evidence 
including photos and emails Mr E had provided to Nationwide, our investigator believed that 
it was more than likely any chargeback claim wouldnt have been successful. He couldnt 
therefore ask Nationwide to do anything further.
Mr E disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The chargeback rules do offer customers the ability to make a claim if goods are damaged 
or unsatisfactory. But its fair to say that the rules dont cope with nuance massively well and 
theres certainly no guarantee of success. In this case Mr E bought the jacket in person, 
presumably after his wife (whose jacket it is I believe) tried it on and had an opportunity to 
have a look at what she was getting.
This wasnt something being bought online where this opportunity isnt on offer. Theres an 
assumption within the chargeback rules that face-to-face purchases using a card with chip 
and PIN dont provide as much flexibility to get redress as online purchases where goods 
were unseen.
Im aware that Mr E had the suppliers assurances that a refund was possible but this was in 
the case that the jacket was returned. This proved impossible to manage for a range of 
reasons  all outside Mr Es control so I appreciate how annoying this must all be.
I think as the jacket remained in Mr Es possession, the supplier would have been unlikely to 
accept the chargeback request. This will seem unfair Im sure but I can only judge how this 
would have been managed in accordance with the chargeback rules. I cant judge whether 
the chargeback rules themselves can operate unfairly.
I dont doubt what Mr E has told us. The damage was there when the jacket was purchased 
but unnoticed until he and his wife had an opportunity to look at the jacket properly. 
Inevitably this was outside of the confines of an organised shopping trip and they were 
unable to take the jacket back.
Overall I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Es complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman