DRN-4273999
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In late 2018, Mr F received and paid on £680 using his Barclays account. Barclays were 
then notified that these funds were the proceeds of fraud. They reviewed the matter, then 
closed the account and registered a marker at CIFAS.
Mr F explained that he met a friend while incarcerated, who later asked him to forward the 
money on because they didnt have an account of their own and so couldnt do transfers. 
They transferred Mr F the money and he says he forwarded it on in good faith, unaware that 
it came from fraud. He did not have any evidence of his contact with this friend.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Barclays were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr F had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Barclays did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
Barclays received an official report that the money Mr F received came from a victim of fraud 
 not from his friend. Mr F paid on this money in such a way that it could not be recovered 
once the fraud was found out. His activity was consistent with that of someone who was 
either complicit in the fraud itself or who was acting as a money mule.
Mr F has not been able to provide any evidence to show that he was entitled to these funds, 
or to show what he discussed with this friend. Indeed, I have no evidence to say that he 
spoke to this friend at all. Mr F said that he sent Barclays a copy of his messages. But 
theres no record of him doing so. And I can see that when Barclays investigated things, he 
told them he didnt have any such evidence. While I understand that memories can fade over 
time, Im afraid this does also call into question the accuracy of Mr Fs testimony.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr F has explained happened. However, if his friend 
was unable to make transfers, then they wouldve also been unable to transfer the funds to 
Mr F in the first place. And if they were able to transfer the funds to Mr F, then they were 
also able to send them on like Mr F did  meaning thered be no need for Mr F to be involved 
at all. Further, the money Mr F received was not from the friend he named, but from a victim 
of fraud. And Mr F would have seen the name of the person sending him the money at the 
time, and wouldve seen it came from someone else. So Im afraid that what Mr F has told us 
is not really plausible. And from what hes told us, I do not find that Mr F had a reasonable 
basis to believe this activity was legitimate.
In summary, Mr F received and passed on the proceeds of fraud. Hes not been able to 
evidence any entitlement to the money. His testimony has not been very plausible or 
reliable. He does not seem to have had reasonable grounds to think that what he was doing 
was legitimate. His activity was consistent with that of someone who was involved in the 
fraud or acting as a money mule. And Ive not seen any evidence which makes it seem 
unlikely or implausible that Mr F knowingly and willingly helped pass on fraudulent funds.
So it seems fair that Barclays registered the appropriate marker at CIFAS. It also follows that 
they acted reasonably in closing Mr Fs account, which they were allowed to do under the 
terms. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr F 
to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman