DRN-3639216
The complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to provide a correct answer to a 
simple question, whether she could pay her remaining mortgage payments for the year 
upfront, without incurring costs. She said the compensation it then paid wasnt enough.
What happened
Miss H said she had a very straightforward mortgage question for Nationwide, whether she 
could pay her remaining monthly payments for that year upfront. She said Nationwides 
advisors were either unable to give an answer or gave her the wrong answer. She said shed 
spent a ridiculous amount of time on the phone, and had to explain her question repeatedly. 
Miss H had complained, and Nationwide found in her favour, but she said a compensation 
payment of £30 was wholly inadequate. Shed asked about the amount, but Nationwide 
hadnt explained. And her offer of an alternative solution - to allow her to overpay penalty 
free or leave the mortgage - was rejected. Miss H wanted either adequate monetary 
compensation or the early termination of her mortgage without penalty.
Nationwide said it accepted Miss H had been on hold for about 19 minutes on her first call to 
it, and had to leave before her question was answered to return to work. It accepted that she 
was given misleading information on a webchat, and when she then called again, she had to 
explain herself twice before her question was answered. Then she was finally told she 
couldnt make all her contractual monthly payments upfront, because she had already used 
her full overpayment allowance, and any further upfront payment would incur an early 
repayment charge (ERC).
Nationwide said it was sorry about the inconvenience, and it paid £30 into her account. 
Nationwide then said this was a gesture of goodwill to acknowledge its errors. It wouldnt 
accept her proposed resolution, or pay more.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She set out in detail the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint, and said she thought the resolution Nationwide had 
provided was fair. She said there wasnt any impact on Miss Hs mortgage or payments, and 
the correct information was communicated to her very quickly. So our investigator didnt 
think Nationwide had to do more.
Miss H replied to say that she didnt agree, and noted the contradictions in what our 
investigator had said. Although our investigator offered to reconsider if Miss H would set out 
what she thought these contradictions were, Miss H didnt want to comment further. This 
case was then passed to me for a complete review, and a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out that she understood the advice Miss H was eventually given (that 
she couldnt pay off all her monthly payments at once, in advance) was correct, and in line 
with Miss Hs contract with Nationwide. I think thats right, but as I understand Miss Hs 
complaint, what shes most concerned about is how long it took to get this advice. 
I note that Miss Hs employment gives her limited opportunities during the day to contact 
Nationwide, and that she may have to ring when others are also trying to do so. I do 
understand that it would be frustrating for Miss H to have had to wait 19 minutes before her 
first call was answered. But, although its unfortunate Miss H didnt get an answer before she 
had to go back to work, I also have to bear in mind that Nationwide wont always be able to 
predict how many people will call at lunchtimes.
Miss H then tried to resolve her question through webchat. Nationwide has accepted that its 
answers were confusing, although it says it did say Miss H would need to phone and talk to 
its specialist team. 
Miss H did that, and her call was passed to a specialist mortgage advisor, but this advisor 
wasnt told what she wanted, so Miss H had to explain herself again before her question was 
finally answered. 
I accept that Miss H hasnt received good service from Nationwide. But, like our investigator, 
I think that the impact on her has been limited. Theres been no impact on her mortgage, and 
Nationwides mistakes were put right quickly. So in these circumstances I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to waive its ERC (a charge it makes to recover 
losses when people repay their mortgages early). I think the payment of £30 that Nationwide 
has already made, along with its apology, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I dont think it has to do more.
I know that Miss H will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman