DRN-3554124
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), wont reimburse her for the money she lost 
when she made two payments for a custom-made wig, which Miss D was dissatisfied with 
and considers was a scam.
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here.
 
In summary, Miss D was looking to purchase a custom-made wig. Miss D discovered a seller 
on a social media platform. Miss D says that after lengthy discussions with the seller about 
the wig and the style, she proceeded to have one made for her. Miss D made two transfers 
from her bank account to the seller. She transferred £310 in November 2021 and then a 
further £90 in December 2021. So, in total, Miss D transferred £400 to the seller.
Miss D received the wig in January 2022 but due to personal circumstances was unable to 
open the package and review it until early February 2022. When Miss D did open and review 
the wig she had paid for, she was dissatisfied with it and felt that she had paid good money 
for something that wasnt fit for purpose. Miss D felt strongly that she had been scammed by 
the seller. 
Miss D subsequently contacted her bank to see if there was anything it could do to help and 
to see if any funds could be recovered.
As the payment was made via bank transfer, and wasnt made by card, BoS was unable to 
initiate any processes / schemes that offer protection to payments made via debit or credit 
card. It did however consider the matter under a voluntary code called the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which came into force in May 2019 that it is signed 
up to. 
The CRM Code provides increased protection for customers who are the victim of scams. 
But the CRM Code doesnt apply to every type of disputed payment. The CRM Code doesnt 
apply to disputes that are deemed to be a civil dispute between two parties. 
BoS deemed the matter a civil dispute between Miss D and the seller as she had received 
the wig and was ultimately dissatisfied with the product. So it considered the CRM Code 
didnt apply to the payments Miss D had made and said it was unable to help her further.
Unhappy, Miss D referred the matter to our service.
An investigator reviewed the matter. In short, they didnt uphold the complaint as they also 
considered the matter was a civil dispute  and therefore said the CRM Code didnt apply to 
the payments Miss D had made. They also felt there was nothing further BoS could have 
done for Miss D given the method of payment.
Miss D has asked for an ombudsmans review as the final stage of our process.
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss D. I can see this was a lot of money for Miss D 
at a point when she was going through a difficult time and the wig was important to her. I 
thank Miss D for being open and honest about her circumstances, about what happened and 
how it made her feel and why she considers shes been scammed. 
Having thought very carefully about BoSs actions, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think BoS has acted unfairly in its 
answering of the complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Bos has signed up to and was in 
force at the time Miss D made the payments. 
Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the circumstances of the payments Miss D 
made. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier; *
*Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Having reviewed all the information and evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for BoS 
to consider this a civil matter rather than a scam. I say this because in the case of a scam, 
Id usually expect for goods or services not to be provided  and for there never to have 
been an intent for them to be provided. 
In this case, I can see Miss D explained that she did not have the funds for a more 
expensive wig and subsequently liaised with the seller and did so for a considerable amount 
of time  around six weeks. Miss D has explained that she discussed a variety of things with 
the seller over this timeframe. Miss D also says she spent hours talking with the seller about 
the customised options and style of the wig before proceeding. On the balance of 
probabilities, Im persauded this seems to have the hallmarks of someone trying to start their 
own business venture and not the actions of a fraudster. 
Miss D also paid for the wig and the wig was sent and received. While Miss D was clearly 
dissatisfied with the quality of the wig, I cant say that there was ever an intent to scam 
Miss D. On balance, it appears in the circumstances of this case, that the seller was unable 
to produce a wig to the level that Miss D thought she would be getting for the cost she paid. 
But that in itself doesnt mean Miss D was scammed and that the seller had deliberately set 
out, with intent, to defraud her. To my mind it seems to be simply a case of Miss D being 
dissatisfied with the goods / services she received compared to what she paid and the 
quality she was expecting. I am also mindful that our Investigator reached out to the receiving bank (the bank where the 
payments were made to) and it advised that it hadnt received any reports of fraud about that 
beneficiary account holder. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply and I cant 
fairly ask BoS to refund the money Miss D considers she has lost. I dont think BoS treated 
Miss D unfairly when it said the payments werent covered by the CRM Code as they relate 
to a civil dispute. 
Im also satisfied that there wasnt anything else BoS could have done to either prevent the 
loss or recover the funds. I say this because the payments werent remarkable enough or out 
of character to such an extent whereby I would expect BoS to have concerns about them 
and intervene. And as the payments werent made by debit or credit card the various 
schemes available that offer protection to those methods of payments werent available to 
BoS or Miss D either. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Miss D. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask BoS to refund the money Miss D considers she has 
lost. I consider BoS were fair in considering the matter a civil dispute which isnt covered by 
the CRM Code and is therefore something that needs to be resolved between the two 
parties through alternative methods.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman