DRN-2046244
The complaint
Ms D complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and the exchange rate fee shes been charged 
following an unsuccessful international bank transfer.
What happened
On 7th October 2019, Ms D used her online banking platform to make a payment of 
£29,500.00 to an international bank account. Ill refer to the international bank account as 
account B. 
On 9th October, HSBC called Ms D to confirm the transaction. They asked for further 
information to confirm the payment was genuine and agreed to release the funds after this 
conversation. But on the same day, the payment was held on the request of HSBCs internal 
compliance team as they required further information to confirm it. HSBC sent a letter to Ms 
Ds home address the following day, asking for this information.
But Ms D was abroad at the time so didnt receive that letter. Ms D says she spoke to HSBC 
again on 15th October and was told there was no payment pending. So, she raised a 
complaint and took the decision to withdraw the £29,500.00 from her account in three 
separate transfers on 15th, 16th and 17th October. She transferred this amount to a family 
member who made the payment through an independent money transfer company on 18th 
October. This is the same day HSBC responded to her complaint explaining they had 
needed more information and thats why there had been a delay. HSBC also recognised the 
funds have been removed from Ms Ds account so explained the transaction would be 
cancelled. The payment reached account B on 20th October.
The transaction was cancelled on 4th November. And Ms Ds account was debited £1,981.49 
on the same day. This was the amount lost on the payment after the amount was converted 
back to sterling against the current exchange rate. Mrs D was unhappy that shed been 
charged this amount and raised a complaint in December 2019.
She was unhappy shed been charged for the exchange rate loss when HSBC hadnt 
completed the payment. She didnt think shed been made aware this would happen. And 
she didnt think it was fair for HSBC to do so when theyd sent correspondence to her home 
address when she was abroad, meaning she was unable to provide the required information 
for the transaction. So, she thought HSBC should refund her the amount theyd debited for 
her loss. 
HSBC didnt agree. They thought theyd made Ms D aware of the potential charge when she 
initially processed the payment. And they thought Ms D had removed the funds from her 
account at her own discretion, meaning the payment couldnt be completed. So, they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong and didnt think the amount should be refunded. They 
issued a second respond in January 2020 which upheld the first response. Ms D remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She noted the difficult Ms D 
found herself in and took this into consideration. But she thought HSBC had acted fairly 
when charging Ms D for the exchange rate loss. She acknowledged HSBCs letters were 
sent to Ms Ds home address when she was abroad, but thought theyd acted within their 
terms and conditions by communication through an official contact method. So, she didnt 
think HSBC needed to do anything further.
Ms D didnt agree. She didnt think HSBC sending a letter to her address was a fair method 
of contact when she was abroad. And she didnt think shed been made aware of what would 
happen if the payment wasnt processed. She also thought HSBC had admitted their error in 
calls she held with them in December 2019, where she was told a full refund would be 
provided. So, she expected them to honour this. As Ms D didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms D. Ive no doubt realising 
her account had been debited such a substantial sum wouldve been upsetting. And I can 
understand why it feels unfair especially when HSBC didnt complete the payment. But for 
me to decide HSBC should refund the amount debited from Ms Ds account, Id need to see 
they acted unfairly by doing so. Or that they hadnt made Ms D reasonably aware this may 
happen. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Ms D spoke to HSBC on 9th October 2019 to confirm the payment was 
genuine. And its not in dispute that HSBC released the funds following this discussion. The 
issue with the payment arose after this, when HSBCs internal compliance team held the 
payment to complete further checks.
Ive seen the compliance team asked for more information. And they recommended Ms D 
was contacted to provide this to ensure the accuracy of the information. So, HSBC sent a 
letter to Ms D on 10 October. But Im aware Ms D wasnt in the country at the time so wasnt 
able to receive the letter. So, Ive considered whether this was fair of HSBC.
HSBC say a letter was sent as theyre unable to call every customer to obtain this 
information due to volume and demand. And they dont communicate with customers via e-
mail when they require sensitive information. I think the information they requested was 
sensitive in nature. And its not my role to comment on HSBCs business process relating to 
this information. So, I dont think they did anything wrong by not sending an e-mail.
I do think they couldve called Ms D and this wouldve been the preferred method of contact. 
But I can understand why calls arent possible in every occasion. And theyd already spoken 
to Ms D previously to gain the information they thought they needed until compliance 
decided otherwise. The letter they sent to Ms D was sent to the correct address and I 
havent seen evidence that shows to me they were aware at the time that Ms D was abroad 
at that exact moment. I understand Ms D says she never received this letter, but I think it 
was most likely sent as it was also in HSBCs interests to receive the information. And HSBC 
are unable to control any potential postal issue there may have been. So, I think HSBC 
acted fairly when sending this request by post.But as Ms D couldnt receive this, she was understandably concerned that the payment 
hadnt been processed. And Ms D says she called HSBC on 15th October to discuss this, 
where she was told there was no payment pending. But crucially, Ive seen no record of this 
call. HSBC have provided me with a call log from the start of October to May 2020 and no 
call was recorded for that day. So, Im unable to say for a certain a call was held and for this 
reason it wouldnt be fair for me to consider any advice Ms D says she was provided.
But I have seen that Ms D e-mailed HSBC on this day, raising a complaint about the delay in 
the payment being completed. On this e-mail, Ms D stated she was abroad and would 
require a call. HSBC treated this e-mail as a complaint and issued a response on 18th 
October, by post. So, I do think they failed to acknowledge Ms Ds request for a call and her 
personal circumstance. But I also need to consider the impact this had on Ms D and they 
incomplete payment.
On the same day Ms D emailed HSBC, she transferred £10,000.00 out of her account to a 
family members. She did this again on the 16th October for the same amount, with the final 
amount of £9,500.00 being transferred out on 17th October. Ms D has confirmed the £29,500 
was then paid from a family members account to account B on 18th October. The same day 
HSBC completed their investigation into her complaint that arose from the e-mail she sent.
So, even if HSBC had called Ms D, I think its most likely that the payment wouldve been 
unable to be completed as Ms D had already transferred the funds out of her account. While 
I can appreciate Ms D was concerned about the length of time it was taking for HSBC to 
complete, I think she chose to remove the funds from her account herself. So, I dont think 
Ms D was impacted by HSBCs decision to send their response by letter and I dont think 
they need to do anything else to recognise this.
Ive then considered whether HSBC made Ms D reasonably aware of what would happen if 
the payment failed to complete. So, whether Ms D shouldve been aware that she may still 
incur a charge if she decided to make the payment by other means. HSBC have provided 
me with screenshots of the online banking process Ms D wouldve gone through when 
making the initial payment on 7th October. Before Ms D clicked to confirm the payment, the 
following statement was clearly shown just above which explained:
Please be aware once your payment has been confirmed, it is not possible for it to be 
recalled or cancelled. Also, if this payment cannot be made or is returned by the foreign 
bank for any reason, the payment will be reversed. If there has been movement in exchange 
rates which leads to a gain or loss, this will be passed to your account.
I think this statement makes it reasonably clear to Ms D that as soon as she confirmed the 
payment, she would be liable for any exchange rate losses if it was unable to be completed. 
And I think Ms D wouldve been aware the payment would not be completed when she 
removed the funds from her account. Although I do understand Ms D feels she was told on 
15th October that no payment was pending, Ive seen no evidence of this call. And I think Ms 
D still had access to her online banking which is shown by her ability to transfer the relevant 
funds from her account. So, she wouldve been able to see a pending payment on her 
account. 
Because of this, I think HSBC made Ms D reasonably aware of the potential charges Ms D 
may face. And unfortunately, on this occasion, the movement in exchange rates led to a loss 
which was then debited from Ms Ds account. Had it led to a gain, Ms D wouldve benefitted 
from this. So, I think HSBC acted reasonably when debiting Ms Ds account and I dont think 
they need to do anything further.Im also aware Ms D feels she was told HSBC initially admitted their error on a call when she 
raised her complaint in December 2019. But were unable to consider complaints about a 
businesss complaints handling as it doesnt fall within our scope. That being said, the final 
response HSBC issued doesnt support this. Even if Ms D was told this on the call, I dont 
think this means HSBC are bound by what was said. So, this doesnt affect the decision Ive 
made.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms D was hoping for. And I want to reassure Ms D Ive 
seriously considered the financial implications of HSBC debiting the account has had and 
how upsetting that wouldve been. But I think HSBC acted fairly when doing so, having made 
Ms D reasonably aware of the potential implications if the payment wasnt able to be 
completed. So, I dont think they need to do anything for.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman