DRN-1496637
 
The complaint 
Mr R complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr R in 2005 in connection with a 
remortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr R if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr Rs needs?
-           Did Santander give Mr R the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
R is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
In his original submissions to this service, Mr R said he was put under pressure by 
Santander to buy the PPI. More recently, he's said he doesnt remember PPI being 
discussed when he arranged his remortgage, and it was added to his account without his 
permission. Ive noted everything Mr R has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr R and Santander 
when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. Santander has provided a copy of a 'High level needs analysis' that it carried out for Mr R 
during the remortgage application process. Following the analysis, Santander provided a 
written recommendation to Mr R which said:
'We identified that you wouldn't be able to afford your mortgage and related outgoings if you 
were unable to work through accident or sickness or were made involuntarily unemployed.
...I recommend you take out an Abbey Paymentcare policy to cover your monthly mortgage 
and related outgoings, if you were unable to work through Accident or Sickness or were 
made involuntarily Unemployed to meet your needs as identified above.'
The letter said that Mr R had accepted Santander's recommendation.
So from what I've seen, I'm satisfied that PPI was discussed between Mr R and Santander, 
and that Mr R chose to take the cover following the bank's recommendation.
I also note that Mr R's remortgage offer referred to insurances he had to take in connection 
with the loan he was arranging. PPI wasn't mentioned as a compulsory insurance. And from 
the other documents I've seen, there is nothing to suggest that taking the PPI was a 
condition of getting the loan.
So without anything else to support what Mr R has told me, I don't think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Santander didn't make the optional nature of the policy clear to him.  
Santander advised Mr R to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-          Mr R was eligible for the policy. 
-          Mr R says he would've only received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident, and he didn't have any savings. So the policy would've provided a 
useful benefit to Mr R if things went wrong. 
-           Mr R wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was made clear to Mr R before he agreed to 
buy it. But Mr R chose to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr R would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman