DRN-4103660
The complaint
Mr L complains about Ikano Bank AB (publ)s response to a claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act (the Act). The claim was in relation to a solar panel system 
(the system), which he says was misrepresented to him.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company.
What happened
In 2017, Mr L purchased the system from a supplier. He paid for it using a fixed sum loan 
agreement from Ikano, which was repayable over 120 monthly repayments, with the initial 
payment deferred for 12 months  meaning the full term of the loan was 11 years. 
In 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ls behalf under section 75 of the Act, saying that the 
following misrepresentations were made by the supplier, which induced Mr L into the 
purchase:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings covering the monthly loan 
repayments.
Ikano had not done appropriate checks that the loan was affordable for Mr L.
Ikano rejected the claim. It said the system had not been misrepresented to Mr L by the 
supplier. It said the supplier wouldve provided an estimate of the first-year benefits from the 
system and that Mr L couldve compared these to his loan repayments to see that the 
system would not be self-funding on a monthly basis. It provided examples of this document 
from a sale in July 2017 and pointed us to another example we had access to from a sale in 
April 2017. Ikano also said it had carried out the necessary checks before offering Mr L the 
loan.
The CMC didnt receive Ikanos response and referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, which we passed onto Ikano. Ikano issued a final response to the 
complaint confirming that it felt its response to the claim was fair.
Our adjudicator looked into this and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. Mr L 
disagreed and so Ive been asked to make a decision on this complaint. I obtained some 
further evidence and issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to 
uphold the complaint. Neither Mr L nor Ikano responded by the deadline given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Act allows a borrower to claim against the lender for a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier. Section 75 applies to Mr Ls purchase of the system. And 
Ikano had a duty to treat Mr L fairly when responding to his claim.
Mr L has provided quite a bit of documentation from the time of sale, but not the parts of the 
contract that set out the estimated benefits. He says he does not have this. But my 
understanding is that the supplier would usually provide such information at the time of sale. 
Ive looked at the example of the documents from April 2017, which showed the estimated 
benefits as follows:
The example from July 2017 contains the same information.
So, Im satisfied that this page wouldve most likely have been included with Mr Ls sales 
documents when he purchased the system. This was in between the dates the above 
examples were used by the supplier.
Ive looked at the information available about the system and thought about what it is likely 
the estimated first year benefit wouldve been. I think it is likely that the first-year benefit 
wouldve been estimated as follows (based on the estimated annual generation of the 
system, the feed-in tariff (FIT) rates at the time (5.03p per kWh export tariff unit rate, 4.14p 
per kWh generation tariff unit rate) and what Mr L was paying for electricity at the time (using 
the tariff comparison rate shown on his electricity bill of 16.71p per kWh, and the industry 
standard self-consumption rate of 50%):
Generation tariff £142.74
Export tariff £86.71
Electricity savings £288.07
Total first year benefit £517.53
This total first year benefit equates to £43.12 per month or £129.38 per quarter. This is 
towards the lower end of the range Mr L says he was told to expect, which was £120 to £150 
per quarter.
Ive compared this to the loan repayments Mr L agreed to make (after the 12 month deferral 
period) of £54.04 per month (or £162.12 per quarter or £648.48 per year), and can see that 
what Mr L was likely told would not be enough to cover the annual loan repayments from the 
start, or for the first four years, even taking into account that Mr L didnt have to make any 
repayments in the first year and allowing for FIT unit rates to rise 5% per year and electricity 
price inflation to rise 8% per year.
In any case, Ikano has made the observation that even if I was to uphold this complaint, the 
redress calculations I would usually recommend in a case such as this would lead to no 
compensation being paid to Mr L. That is because the benefit of the system over eleven 
years (the loan term) would exceed the amount Mr L will pay for the system under the loan 
agreement.
By Ikanos calculations the benefit over eleven years would be £7,115.80, based on how the 
system has performed to date. Whereas the total payable for the system under the loan 
agreement would be £6,483.27. I think Ikanos calculations are reasonable, so I would not 
make any award even if I thought the system was misrepresented to Mr L.
Im also mindful that Mr L wouldve been able to see that the system was not self-funding in 
the way he claims to have been told within about 15 months of installation. By that time, hed 
have received FIT statements covering a full year and have access to his electricity bills to 
be able to work out his savings. I think it wouldve been clear at that stage that the benefits 
did not cover the monthly loan repayments, repayments which by then he wouldve started to 
make each month.
If the benefits didnt match what he had been told I expect hed have made a claim or 
complaint at that time, rather than waiting a number of years.
In any case, the issue here appears to be that Mr L has not received the FIT generation tariff 
at the higher rate (4.14p per kWh at time of installation) but has only receive the lower rate of 
0.48p per kWh. This means the income he has received from the system is much less than 
expected, even though the system is generating the expected amount of electricity.
Ive thought about why this has happened and whether it was due to a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier. But I do not think it was. To be eligible for the higher rate 
Mr Ls property must have an EPC rating of D or above. I can see that the supplier provided 
an EPC to Mr L which showed his property was rated D. The terms and conditions of the 
suppliers contract said that Mr L must submit the EPC with his FIT application to ensure he 
received the higher rate.
Given that the supplier provided the EPC and instructions on how to receive the higher rate, 
at this stage I can only assume that Mr L failed to follow the suppliers instructions, which led 
to him not receiving the expected rate, even though it appears he was eligible for it.
Overall, Im not persuaded that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the 
part of the supplier. So, I dont think Ikano needs to do anything further, and I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman