DRN-2318740
The complaint
Mr J and Mr S complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J and Mr S are insured under a travel insurance policy as a benefit of a packaged bank
account. The policy is provided by UKI and included cruise cover as an optional upgrade.
Mr J and Mr S were on a cruise which was curtailed as a result of Covid-19. Mr J and Mr S
were repatriated back to the UK and received a refund for the cruise from their tour operator.
They made a claim under their policy with UKI for cancelled port stops.
Mr J and Mr S were originally told they would be able to claim £150 per person for any ports
theyd missed on the cruise. However, UKI later said the claim wasnt covered because Mr J
and Mr S had been given a full refund for their holiday, so they werent financially out of
pocket. UKI sent Mr J and Mr S £100 for the inconvenience caused as a result of being
given incorrect information.
Unhappy, Mr J and Mr S brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr J and Mr Ss complaint. Mr J and Mr S didnt agree, so the
complaint was passed to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr J and Mr Ss 
complaint in October 2020. In it, I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr J and Mr Ss policy say:
Cancelled port stop
We will pay you £150 for each port stop shown on your schedule that is cancelled by
the cruise operator after your vessel has left the first port.
Mr J and Mr S port stops were cancelled by the cruise operator after their cruise left the first
port. Their policy provides for a fixed monetary benefit to be paid to them in these
circumstances.
The cruise cover section of the policy goes on to say:
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
2. Any claim for both Cancelled port stop and Cutting Short your Trip relating to the
same event.
Mr J and Mr S havent made a claim with UKI under the cutting short your trip section of
their policy, so I dont think the above exclusion applies.
I dont think its necessary for Mr J and Mr S to have a financial loss before they can make a
successful claim for cancelled port stops. This section of their cover pays each insured
person a fixed monetary benefit if port stops are cancelled. It doesnt seek to indemnify a
policyholder for any additional or unused financial losses.
So, I dont think Mr J and Mr S are prevented under general principles of insurance from
benefiting under this section of their cover in circumstances where they have also received a
refund from their tour operator. As Mr J and Mr S have correctly pointed out, if they had
stayed on the ship rather than being repatriated and port stops were cancelled, their claim
for cancelled port stops would have been payable under their policy without them having to
demonstrate that theyd suffered a financial loss.
This means I think Mr J and Mr Ss claim is covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy with UKI and I think UKI have acted unfairly and unreasonably by refusing to pay their
claim.
I think the information UKI first gave to Mr J and Mr S was correct  their claim is covered
under their policy. Ive considered the distress and inconvenience which Mr J and Mr S have
experienced as a result of UKIs actions in subsequently incorrectly declining their claim. I
have no doubt that the experience will have been extremely frustrating for them, but I think
the £100 which UKI has already paid is fair compensation for this.
So, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr J and Mr Ss complaint. 
UKI didnt accept my provisional decision and said Mr J and Mr S havent suffered a financial 
loss as they have already been indemnified by their tour operator. UKI also pointed to an 
exclusion in Mr J and Mr Ss policy which excludes claims for costs that can be recovered 
from elsewhere. 
Mr J and Mr S responded to my provisional decision and provided a list of missed ports, as 
well as comments about having missed some ports twice. Mr J and Mr S also asked for any 
claim payment to be made to them each separately, by way of two separate cheques. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken UKIs additional comments into account, but I wont be changing my decision. 
The cancelled port stop section of Mr J and Mr Ss policy doesnt seek to indemnify them 
against financial loss. This section of the policy doesnt provide for a pro-rata reimbursement 
of the amount Mr J and Mr S paid for their cruise, per port stop missed. So, its not protecting 
or insuring Mr J and Mr Ss original financial outlay. Instead, cancelled port stop provides a 
set, defined, fixed benefit payment of £150 per port that is cancelled. 
Mr J and Mr S may have reclaimed their initial financial outlay from their tour operator, but 
they are not making a claim to UKI for financial losses or costs which can be recovered from 
elsewhere. Their policy provides for a fixed benefit to be paid to them if port stops are 
cancelled  regardless of whether there has been a financial loss  and this fixed benefit is 
what they are claiming for. Im satisfied Mr J and Mr S have a valid claim for cancelled port 
stop which is covered under, and not excluded by, their policy. 
The complaint that Mr J and Mr S have brought to us is about UKIs decision to decline their 
claim and thats the only matter I can comment on here. UKI must now be given the opportunity to calculate the amount payable to Mr J and Mr S under their policy. If theres 
any subsequent dispute about the amount payable, Mr J and Mr S would need to make a 
separate complaint to UKI in the first instance before this service would have the power to 
look into the matter.  
I would, however, ask UKI to note Mr J and Mr Ss preference for any claim payments to be 
made to them each separately, by cheque. 
Putting things right
UKI needs to put things right by paying Mr J and Mr Ss claim under the cancelled port stop 
section of cover, subject to any applicable policy limit and/or excess.
UKI needs to add interest to any claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim until the date settlement is paid
My final decision
Im upholding Mr J and Mr Ss complaint against U K Insurance Limited and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman