DRN-4103541
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that IN-SYNC Credit Services Ltd (ISCS) repossessed his van, hes 
unhappy with the way in which his account was administered and how ISCS responded to 
him when he made it aware he was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr H acquired a used van under a conditional sale agreement with ISCS in August 2020. 
The van cost around £13,500. Under the agreement, Mr H was required to make one 
payment of £88.25, followed by 155 weekly payments of £87.09, followed by a final payment 
of £4,160. A total of £5,591.04 was due to be paid from Mr Hs VAT account he held with a 
different business connected to ISCS  Ill refer to this business as T - and a further 
£2,699.80 was to be repaid by HMRC for the purchase of the van. This was a total amount 
payable of £26,038.04. The conditional sale agreement was due to be repaid through 
remittance deductions from an account Mr H held with a different business connected to 
ISCS, who Ill refer to as P.
Mr Hs account fell into arrears and in February 2021, Mr H asked ISCS for a payment break 
of 30 days due to his current circumstances and him arranging further work. ISCS asked Mr 
H to provide him with evidence of his circumstances. In March 2021, ISCS told Mr H it hadnt 
received payments towards his accounts for four weeks. Mr H told ISCS he had asked for a 
payment break of 30 days and asked ISCS to provide him with figures if he was to cancel 
the VAT. ISCS confirmed they put Mr Hs account on hold and asked when he would restart  
making payments. It also said it was a condition of the finance contract that Mr H was VAT 
registered. It said weekly payments would be £130.09.
In April 2021, ISCS sent Mr H a notice of default. This was because it said the arrears on the 
account totalled £1,843.63. The same month, Mr H told ISCS he was having issues with the 
ad blue system on the van and it was constantly faulty. ISCS told Mr H it had lowered his 
weekly payments to £25 which was subject to review as it couldnt offer this long term. It 
asked Mr H to refer his concerns about the quality of the van to the manufacturer.
In May 2021, ISCS asked Mr H to call it so he could bring his account up to date to avoid 
repossession of the van. Mr H said he would start back up with his weekly repayments but 
ISCS told him it would need to increase these to £123.09, as the arrears were £1,392.62.  
Mr H said he was working towards paying his priority bills and asked ISCS to come to an 
arrangement with him in a few weeks. In June 2021, ISCS told Mr H it would need to 
repossess the van due to the arrears building up.
In July 2021, ISCS told Mr H the arrears were £1,938.93. It said it had stopped repossession 
at that point because Mr H had started to make repayments towards his account. It said     
Mr  H would need to increase his weekly payments to clear the arrears.
Mr H contacted ISCS in early 2022 and said he acknowledged he was behind with his 
repayments. He said there had been issues which had led him losing work or struggling to 
gain work. And he said there had been issues after he switched accounts. Mr H requested a 
30 day payment break and asked ISCS to defer his payments to the end of the agreement 
by way of a contract extension.
ISCS told Mr H it appreciated he was seeking employment but the arrears on the account 
were £3,468.58 and his repayment history was poor. It said this suggested Mr H couldnt 
afford the repayments due under the agreement. ISCS said Mr H had told it he wasnt 
working the hours to pay for the van, as the amount he earned after deductions wasnt 
enough for living costs, let alone fuel costs. It said it had decided the best thing to do would 
be to terminate the agreement. So ISCS sent Mr H a notice of termination in January 2022 
and said it had previously sent Mr H a notice of default. It said because Mr H didnt remedy 
the breach, there was a total outstanding amount payable of £18,618.35.
Mr H complained to ISCS in January 2022. He said ISCS made payments to an incorrect 
bank account which caused him to cancel jobs as he didnt have money for fuel. He said he 
lost four days worth of work as a result of this. He acknowledges ISCS was entitled to 
deduct funds for repayments towards the finance agreement, but says on one occasion this 
only left him with £45 and so he couldnt make bookings or chase up work. He said he 
wasnt happy the van was repossessed.
He also said when he wrote to ISCS to negotiate the payments he was making towards his 
arrears, he was told a default notice could be issued. Although Mr H said he wasnt in a 
position to afford the van and his payment history was questionable, he said the default 
notice didnt explain how he could prevent the default. He said around a week later, the van 
was repossessed. Mr H also said there were inconsistencies on the sales invoices and 
payments werent adding up correctly. He said these inaccuracies made it appear that he 
had paid less towards the finance.
ISCS issued its response to Mr Hs complaint in March 2022. It said it reviewed his proposal 
but after reviewing Mr Hs account history, it decided to terminate his agreement and 
repossess the van. It also said it had carried out the repossession fairly and it had sent Mr H 
a default notice in April 2021. It said it had noticed some discrepancies in the statements it 
issued between October and December 2021, so it had amended these and it had amended 
the closing balance following the termination of the agreement. It also wrote to Mr H and said 
he owed a termination balance of around £8,000.
ISCS issued a further response to Mr Hs complaint in April 2022. It said it accepted it was 
unlikely that Mr H wasnt advised of a payment due date, but it had attempted to contact    
Mr  H a number of times for payments before and after they were due. It also said Mr Hs 
agreement was in arrears by around £1,800 of non-VAT payments and £1,200 of non-
weekly finance payments by November 2021. It said whilst it agreed the van was damaged 
when it was supplied to Mr H, it had agreed to pay for the repairs but Mr H didnt incur any 
costs as he didnt have the van repaired and so, ISCS said it wouldnt compensate Mr H. 
ISCS said it had repossessed the van in line with its terms and conditions. It also said HMRC 
had confirmed Mr Hs VAT de-registration was accepted and Mr Hs account has been 
closed since then.
ISCS told this service it waived Mr Hs outstanding balance of £648.96 and the agreement 
had been closed with a balance of £0.
Unhappy with this, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said he had made around £600 in extra payments towards the agreement and ISCS 
didnt tell him his payments were being reported late because he made payments on a 
Monday rather than a Friday when they were due. He said that he didnt understand why 
ISCS were deducting VAT payments when he was no longer VAT registered. He said due to 
the van being repossessed, he was unable to continue his job and he lost a lot of clients. He 
said he was unable to travel to visit his kids or see his partner due to the stress of losing the 
van. He said his identity was taken from him as a result of him losing the van.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt think ISCS had acted unfairly. She said 
Mr Hs account remained in arrears despite ISCS sending him a default notice and as a 
result of this, the agreement was terminated. She also said the overpayments Mr H had 
made in December 2021 were paid towards his arrears, which was in line with the terms and 
conditions of his agreement.Mr H disagreed. He said ISCS had unfairly applied a default as it lacked accuracy and it 
wasnt dated. He also said the payments werent correctly calculated in regard to VAT. He 
said ISCS should have provided him with more time to negotiate the repossession and he 
had to chase it to send the repossession notice.
Our investigator said the default notice was valid and it wasnt dated because Mr H had 
entered into a repayment plan with ISCS at the time. She also said Mr H hadnt raised the 
complaint about the VAT and the payments and said Mr H would need to raise this with 
ISCS before this service could consider a complaint about it.
Mr H said the default notice was invalid because it didnt have a date for repayment, it didnt 
include a copy of the current default information sheet and there was a lack of accuracy in it. 
He also said the repossession was unfair and incorrect and that it left him in a fragile position 
owing a large amount to ISCS. He also said he told ISCS he was no longer claiming for VAT 
in April 2021, but it continued to take VAT payments from his account.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and told Mr H our service wouldnt be able to 
consider Mr Hs complaint about the VAT payments or the actions of T and P in relation to 
the administration of his agreement. She also said she thought that whilst the default notice 
ISCS sent Mr H in April 2021 didnt have a date Mr H should remedy the breach by, she felt 
it was reasonable that ISCS defaulted the account due to guidance issued by the regulator. 
She said in addition to this, Mr H had confirmed that ISCS hadnt reported a default to his 
credit file. She also said that ISCS attempted to assist Mr H when he was in financial 
difficulties and it didnt act unfairly when it repossessed the van.
Mr H said he raised the issue of the VAT as T failed to cancel the VAT on the account. He 
said had it cancelled the VAT, it would have changed the whole agreement. He said the VAT 
was a vital part of his complaint, the default notice was void and he had made overpayments 
towards his agreement.
As Mr H remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a decision 
on 27 April 2023 in which I said this service couldnt consider Mr Hs complaint about the 
VAT and the administration of his account. So I wont comment on these complaint points as 
part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity. So Im satisfied I can consider Mr Hs 
complaint against ISCS.
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence, so Ive had to summarise things in this 
decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this, but I want to assure the parties, if I 
dont mention every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about 
it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. However, Im going to 
concentrate here on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall. 
Financial difficulties
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint about ISCSs response to his financial difficulties. Weve 
set out our approach to financial difficulties complaints on our website  including the key 
relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered this approach while 
deciding Mr Hs complaint.When a lender is made aware or ought reasonably be aware that its customer may be in 
financial difficulties, the lender needs to treat its customer with forbearance and due 
consideration.
From the information provided to me, I can see that Mr H was able to maintain the payments 
owed under the agreement until November 2020. Following this, he made a number of 
payments late and some remained unpaid. Mr H told ISCS about his personal circumstances 
and his financial difficulties and requested a 30 day payment break. ISCS approved this and 
it also agreed that Mr H could reduce his weekly payments to £25 in April 2021. 
Following this, Mr H made weekly payments towards his account. However, despite this, his 
account remained in arrears. In early 2022, Mr H acknowledged he was behind with his 
payments and asked for a 30 day payment break or a contract extension. But ISCS declined 
this as the arrears owed under the agreement were around £3,500. At this point, Mr Hs 
agreement was terminated.
Having considered this carefully, I can see that ISCS kept in regular contact with Mr H after 
his account went into arrears. It reviewed Mr Hs circumstances and offered appropriate 
forbearance in the form of a payment break or reduced payments. So I think ISCS acted with 
forbearance and due consideration when Mr H told it about his financial difficulties.
Unfortunately this action didnt prevent Mr Hs account from remaining in arrears and Mr H 
told ISCS he wasnt working the hours to pay for the van, as it didnt pay for his living costs 
or fuel for him to be able to work. So ISCS made a decision to terminate Mr Hs agreement 
and repossess the van. 
Mr H unhappy ISCS repossessed the van supplied to him and says the default notice was 
incomplete.
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a business can 
register a default after a customer is behind with their payments for three months. And that it 
expects businesses to register a default by the time a customer is six months behind with 
their payments. As a minimum, it says it would expect a lender to act in accordance with 
these principles when deciding whether to default a consumers account. I consider this to 
be representative of good industry practice. 
Ive seen a copy of the default notice ISCS sent to Mr H. It is dated 16 April 2021. The 
default notice confirms the agreement number it is related to and lists the amount of arrears 
due. At this point, the agreement was more than three months in arrears. So Im satisfied 
ISCS issued a default notice at the appropriate time and told Mr H the amount of arrears 
owed under the conditional sale agreement.
Mr H says the default notice didnt tell him how to prevent the default. However under 
amount listed for the total arrears, the notice says, This can be remedied if you submit a 
payment sufficient to clear the total arrears. The notice goes on to say that the agreement 
may be terminated if Mr H doesnt take steps to remedy the breach. However, the notice has 
omitted the date by which this payment must reach ISCS. I think ISCS made an error here 
when it didnt include the date in the notice.
However, this in itself doesnt mean that ISCS acted unfairly when it made a decision to 
terminate Mr Hs agreement and repossess the van. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs conditional sale agreement says,
Missing payments could have severe consequences, including us exercising our rights to 
repossess the goods and/or commencing legal proceedings against you and seeking an 
attachment of earnings order or a charging order (an inhibition in Scotland). Missing 
payments could also make obtaining credit more difficult and/or expensive if we report your 
default to one or more credit reference agencies and it is recorded on your credit record.The terms and conditions say,
2.1 You will be in breach of this Agreement in the following circumstances: (a) you fail to 
make one or more Repayments (including the Final Repayment) in full on time;.
A further document supplied with the conditional sale agreement says
Where you fall behind with payments we, or our third party agents, may also claim our 
reasonable costs and expenses incurred in tracing you or taking enforcement proceedings to 
recover what you owe us, or any other reasonable expenses and costs we, or our third party 
agents, may incur in taking other steps to enforce our rights, which could include 
repossessing the goods.
Mr H missed a number of payments that were owed under his agreement and so he was in 
breach of his agreement. As a result of this, ISCS was entitled to repossess the van supplied 
to Mr H under the agreement. ISCS sent Mr H an email explaining it would be terminating 
the agreement. It also sent him a termination notice in January 2022. 
By this point, Mr H was aware he had missed a number of payments. And he was in ongoing 
communication with ISCS about his financial circumstances. During a call between Mr H and 
ISCS in December 2021, ISCS told Mr H it was concerned about Mr Hs account. Mr H 
accepted it should be better than it was. ISCS told Mr H he was clearly struggling to make 
payments and so it may have to take the van back from Mr H. Im satisfied Mr H was 
reasonably aware that ISCS may repossess the van as a result of him missing payments.
Overall, having carefully considered this, given the level of arrears that had accrued and 
because Mr H was in ongoing financial difficulty, I dont think ISCS acted unfairly when it 
repossessed the van from Mr H. Had ISCS continued to allow Mr H to keep the van when it 
was aware of his ongoing financial circumstances, the arrears owed would have likely 
continued to accrue, which would have been unfair to Mr H. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman