DRN-2949110
The complaint
Miss M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongfully declined her claim on her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss Ms dog fell off the sofa and became lame. At this time the dog 
was seen by her vet and a specialist; and required surgery to repair its left cruciate 
ligament.
In January 2021, the dog had another fall off the sofa and following this wouldnt put 
weight on its right left. The dog was diagnosed with a rupture of its right cruciate ligament 
and needed surgery to repair this. Miss M contacted UKI to put in a claim, but it declined 
to cover the second surgery.
UKI said that the second surgery was linked to the first, left leg surgery. It highlighted 
Miss Ms terms on bilateral conditions and her policy limits. It said that as the 
conditions were linked and more than 12 months had passed, the second surgery 
wasnt covered.
Miss M brought her complaint to our service. She argued that it was simply the fall that had 
caused the right leg cruciate ligament to rupture and not anything linked to her 2019 claim. I 
issued a provisional decision on this case on 20 July 2021. My provisional findings from the 
decision were:
The terms of Miss Ms policy define a Bilateral condition as:
Any condition affecting body parts of which your pet has two, one each 
side of the body such as (but not limited to) ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, 
hips and patellae. When applying a benefit limit or exclusion Bilateral 
Conditions are considered as one condition.
What I have to decide in this case is whether theres a link between the two claims 
Miss M is making. It wouldnt be fair for UKI to apply the above term if the 2021 
claim was purely caused by trauma and there was no link between it and the injury 
to the dogs left leg in 2019.
Miss M holds a policy which covers a condition for either up to £4,000 or for a 
period of 12 months  whichever is reached first.
Before the first fall, in October 2019, Miss M took the dog to the vet due to an 
issue with its legs. The notes focus mainly on the front left leg; however its noted 
that Miss M said the dogs back legs sometimes fail too. The vet noted slight limb 
deviation and the assessment was that this was likely arthritis.
When the dog fell in late November 2019, the comments by the dogs vet were:
Marked cranial draw under GA. Luxating patellas as 
previously noted. VD hips - NAD
Lateral + CdCr stifles -
Left has marked joint effusion, femur more caudal than right. 
Minimal arthritic changes.
And then the specialist vet said:
There is evidence of arthrosis and effusion of the stifles L > R. 
Bilateral medial patellar luxation, with concurrent CrCL failure LH is 
suspected.
So both vets noted issues with both legs at the time of the first fall. And Miss M 
reported an issue affecting both back legs prior to the first fall.
UKI has provided evidence from its vet along with medical information on cruciate 
ligaments in dogs, which sets out how degenerative disease can affect the 
ligament. I can see UKI asked Miss Ms vet about whether theyd expect a healthy 
cruciate ligament to rupture like this and the vet said this could happen in older 
dogs. UKIs vet considers this injury to be unlikely in a healthy dog. So Ive 
considered this evidence alongside the veterinary notes.
In cases where theres conflicting information, I have to weigh up the evidence 
and determine which version of events seems most likely. The medical evidence 
we hold clearly sets out that Miss Ms dog was experiencing problems with both 
her back legs in late 2019. The vet notes from this time set out arthritis and 
medial patellar luxation. And the terms of this policy specifically set out that both 
patellae and cruciate ligaments are caught by the bilateral condition term. I have 
noted Miss Ms vets comments that the cruciate ligament couldve ruptured as 
the result of the fall and degeneration due to the dogs age. But I cant ignore that 
there were clearly issues with the knee joint back in 2019, which UKI has shown 
cause degeneration beyond that of ageing.
Miss M has said that her dog had no issues walking before the fall. And her vet has 
said that it didnt notice any concerns either. But the vet hadnt seen Miss Ms dog 
for some time before January 2021. And as the dog was experiencing issues with 
both legs from at least 2019, I wouldnt expect Miss M to necessarily notice a 
remarked change in how it walked just before the fall.
Based on the evidence, it does seem most likely that the reported problems with 
the dogs right leg from 2019 did contribute to the severity of the injury in January 
2021. So I think its fair that UKI has linked these conditions under the above 
term.
As Ive set out, the policy only provides cover up to £4,000 or for 12 months for a 
condition. So as the dog needed further treatment outside of 12 months, I think 
UKI was right to decline Miss Ms claim. I know shes set out that the dog didnt 
need surgery in this time period, but that simply means her costs arent covered 
under this insurance when it was needed. And, I do note that from the records we 
hold, the cost of the first surgery exceeded £3,500, so even if the second surgery 
was needed within 12 months, there was limited cover left in any event.
Miss M responded to the provisional decision, disagreeing with the outcome. She said 
her vet confirmed the accident the dog had, had no relevance to the previous injury. She said her complaint was that the policy wasnt worth the paper it was written on and 
asked how the policy could insure an animal with multiple limbs, but only cover one. UKI 
responded accepting the provisional decision and not providing any further comments. 
So the case has been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments Miss M made in response to my provisional decision. I 
can confirm that our investigator was aware of the call between UKI and Miss Ms vet; and 
so already obtained information relating to this when she carried out her investigation. As 
such I had already considered this when coming to my decision. Ive had to weigh up the 
evidence I hold and Im still of the conclusion that UKI has acted fairly and within the policy 
terms in this case.
I understand Miss M held essential cover and so she expected this to cover everything. But 
insurance doesnt work this way. It cant and wont cover every possibility and that is why it 
comes with terms and conditions. The terms of Miss Ms policy set out that it will treat 
patellae and cruciate ligaments under the Bilateral conditions definition. But this doesnt 
mean only one leg is covered. It means that additional conditions apply  time limits and 
monetary limits for cover. I can understand Miss Ms disappointment, but these are the terms 
she agreed to when she took out this cover. I accept in her case, due to the time between 
the two injuries, only one leg was covered. But it is possible that both legs couldve received 
some cover, if events had happened differently.
Based on the further information provided, my decision hasnt changed. So in line with the 
reasoning above and in my provisional decision, Im not directing UKI to cover Miss Ms 
second surgery claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman