DRN-3188561
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complains that Mr B was mis-sold car finance by Honda Finance Europe 
Plc, trading as Honda Financial Services. It believes Mr B was told the car would always be 
worth more than the outstanding balance. The estate of Mr B is represented in this complaint 
by his son, Mr B2.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and laid out by the investigator, 
so I won't repeat them again here. So I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first would like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr B2 and his family for the loss of his 
father. I realise this will come as a disappointment to him, but I find I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Unfortunately for obvious reasons I dont know what was and wasnt said when the 
late Mr B discussed his finance agreement with the dealership. Where evidence is 
missing, incomplete or conflicting I must make my decision based on the balance of 
probability, that is, what I believe likely to have happened. 
Mr B was forced to stop driving for health reasons which meant he needed to end the 
finance agreement of his latest car. There were two ways this could happen, either 
by early repayment  for example through the dealership which would buy back the 
car, calculate any shortfall, and pay the finance company balance. Alternatively, Mr B 
couldve dealt directly with the finance company which would end the agreement as 
outlined in the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions explain Mr Bs right to repay the sum early  a settlement 
figure calculated using a statutory formula - and his right to terminate the agreement. 
Mr B2 has said Mr B had been driving this make of car for a long time and had 
purchased eight cars from the same dealership in the past. He said Mr B had a good 
relationship with the sales advisor from whom he purchased the last four cars. So, it 
seems Mr B had significant experience of buying cars from this dealer. Mr B signed 
the hire purchase agreement which is also signed by the sales advisor he had dealt 
with four times. And, I think under these circumstances it more likely than not the 
terms and conditions were explained to him and he understood them. 
Mr B2 has said that in spite of a cash deposit of £6,521 for a car costing £23,779, it 
was not made clear to his father that the car would be valued less than the 
outstanding finance balance, especially having covered such low mileage. He said 
the opposite impression was given.
Mr B2 said his father had only driven about 700miles and the car was as new. I do 
appreciate that the car wasnt used very much. But this doesnt mean it wouldnt 
depreciate, this is especially the case in the first year of sale of a brand-new car. Nor 
do I think it reasonable to assume, or for there to be an expectation, that the value of 
the car would depreciate or be calculated in proportion to the value of Mr Bs finance 
payments while the agreement is ongoing.  
The only guaranteed figure on the terms and conditions is the Guaranteed Future 
Value as £10,475.45. This figure is based on the full term of the agreement and 
expected mileage. 
No other guarantee was made, and Ive not seen any evidence that the opposite 
impression was made. Mr B chose early repayment. Honda has said the dealership 
agreed to purchase the car back for £13,599.99. The purchase price wouldve been a 
commercial decision by the dealership, not the finance company, and isnt something 
I can comment on. 
The settlement figure on the finance agreement at the time, which wouldve been 
calculated using the statutory formula, was £15,373.85. This meant there was a 
shortfall which Mr B wouldve needed to pay  the figure which is the subject of this 
complaint - for the finance agreement to be settled. 
Its not clear to me if the previous cars Mr B bought were done so through hire 
purchase agreements. But if they were then its possible Mr B hadnt needed to 
execute early repayment on those, and potentially why he wasnt aware there wasnt 
a guarantee of the value of the car for an early repayment settlement. 
Mr B2 has said his father would be classed as "vulnerable". Advanced age can be a 
factor in the vulnerability of a consumer. But this is not something the finance 
company would assume as it can lead to discrimination based on age.
Mr B2 also said Mr B was sold the new finance deal on the basis that it saved him 
from using his savings for the car purchase and he had the flexibility of being able to 
hand the car back should he be unable to continue driving. He said at his age, it was 
unlikely that the finance arrangement would reach full term and the ability to hand the 
car back without additional cost or fuss appeared to be a good idea. I understand 
why that would be appealing. I think it likely Mr B understood the agreement he was 
signing and was familiar with both the dealership and the staff for some years. But it 
would be discriminatory for them to assume the finance agreement wouldnt reach 
full term, and to ask for a higher deposit, as Mr B2 suggests, on that basis. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mr B had health problems and had recently suffered a 
bereavement at the time he needed to end the agreement. It cant have been easy for him. 
Mr B2 has said his father felt let down by the Honda brand and all he wanted was for the car 
to be collected and the finance arrangement cancelled in accordance with what he had been 
told by the dealership. It seems that Mr B had previously had a good relationship with the 
dealer and hadnt reported it had taken advantage of him before. And Im not persuaded 
there was poor service or exploitative behaviour this time by the dealership. I think it unlikely 
it has done anything wrong and so I wont be asking Honda to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman