DRN-2829257
The complaint
Mr H complains he had an account which was transferred to Santander UK plc (Santander) 
from another building society, following its acquisition, and they say they have no record of 
this. 
What happened
Mr H says he recently came across a building society passbook he had left in a safe, in his 
place of business. The passbook shows a balance available, as of 1987, of several thousand 
pounds with a building society that was acquired by Santander in 2004. Mr H says when he 
approached Santander regarding the balance, they told him they had no record of his 
account with them. Mr H believes Santander have misplaced the balance of his building 
society account and wishes them to pay him, the monies due to him as detailed in his 
passbook. 
Santander say they have checked their systems and have no record of this account with 
them and the passbook alone isnt sufficient evidence to prove the account balance hadnt 
been withdrawn or account closed. Santander says they are only obliged to hold records for 
six years and wouldnt hold account information indefinitely. Santander says they are unable 
to help Mr H any further regarding this matter. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
The investigator felt the passbook alone wasnt sufficient evidence to support Mr Hs view 
the account couldnt have been closed or the balance withdrawn since 1987. The 
investigator felt that over this period of time Mr H would have received statements or 
correspondence from Santander if the account had been transferred from the other building 
society following the acquisition - but Mr H couldnt provide this service with any such 
information. The investigator says Santander had carried out checks on their systems and 
no trace of an account could be found having been transferred from the other building 
society. He felt, in all likelihood the account had been closed before the acquisition, of the 
other building society by Santander, took place. 
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr H to believe he had a sizeable deposit in a 
building society account only to be told by Santander they had no record of this. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander have misplaced Mr Hs deposit, as 
detailed in his passbook, following the acquisition of the building society, where the balance 
was held. 
Mr H says he came across his old building society passbook whilst clearing out his safe. He 
says he recalls opening the account over 30 years ago and making one withdrawal but has 
no recollection of closing the account or withdrawing the balance. Mr H feels Santander, 
following the acquisition of his old building society, have misplaced his account which had a 
balance of several thousand pounds. Mr H maintains his passbook is evidence the balance 
should still be available to him as Santander have provided no proof, he withdrew these 
monies or closed the account. In any event, Mr H says he would have needed to produce 
the passbook if he had closed the account and as he still holds this passbook showing the 
balance, the account had never been closed by him.
 
I understand what Mr H is saying regarding the passbook and while he may not agree, a 
passbook dated over 30 years ago, isnt on its own, proof the account hadnt been closed 
since then. I say this as banks and building societies will give access to its customers to 
withdraw funds, without the passbook, provided other suitable forms of identification can be 
provided. Mr H suggests he can recall times when without the passbook, formal documents 
would need to be signed to withdraw any balances and he has no recollection of doing this. 
While I understand this point, there is no way of knowing when such a withdrawal might have 
taken place or what identification process was needed. What remains important here is there 
are ways to withdraw or close an account without a passbook now or in the past, even if Mr 
H doesnt think so.  
Its worth mentioning at this point Mr H in a communication to this service says by his own 
admission Quite frankly, the Passbook was placed in my personal office safe and I truthfully 
forgot about it until following my retirement. Having considered this, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for Mr H to say this, given over 30 years had passed here. It follows, and its 
not unreasonable to say, its also possible Mr H may have also forgotten about making a 
further withdrawal or closing the account before the acquisition of his old building society by 
Santander in 2004, for the same reason.  
Its important to say that this service has been provided evidence to show Santander have 
carried out internal checks and searches of their systems, which can find no trace of the 
account Mr H refers to. Santander have also told this service they have also checked the 
returns they provide to HMRC, but the account wasnt located or indeed any record the 
account was ever migrated to their bank. While we expect banks like Santander to maintain 
records for a reasonable period of time, generally six years, its not reasonably expected for 
them to hold records going back 30 years, so I am satisfied they wouldnt be expected to 
hold account transaction records prior to the acquisition of the building society in 2004.
 
While Mr H may not agree, from the weight of evidence provided to this service I am 
satisfied, in all probability Mr Hs account, with his old building society, was closed prior to 
the acquisition by Santander, given the checks they have undertaken. In addition, like the 
investigator, if the account had been transferred to Santander, I would expect Mr H to have 
received information about this including new account details, which Mr H cannot recall 
receiving. It is a difficult situation here and its understandable given the time passed since 
the account was last known to have been used, for concrete evidence to be provided by 
either party. That said, on balance I am satisfied that Santander didnt misplace Mr Hs 
account detailed in his passbook, for the reasons I have already given.
 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander 
here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman