DRN-2175539
The complaint
Mr S says Western Circle Ltd  trading as Quick Loans Express (Quick Loans) - 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Quick Loans provided to Mr S between February and 
July 2019. A summary of Mr Ss lending history is below:
 
The complaint has been reviewed by two of our adjudicators. In the most recent 
assessment, our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint and they didnt think any of the loans 
should have been given because had Quick Loans considered the information it had 
gathered on Mr S it would have seen he was having difficulties managing his money.  
Quick Loans disagreed and said Mr S had enough disposable income to cover the 
repayment costs of the loan. It also said Mr S had told it to consider his partners income 
when it was working out affordability. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quick Loans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 18/02/2019 26/04/2019 2 £250.00 £178.52
2 29/04/2019 13/05/2019 3 £300.00 £148.95
3 02/07/2019 30/10/2019 4 £250.00 £100.06the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Loans was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Quick Loans says it carried out checks before it lent the loan to Mr S. And has provided a 
copy of the results of these checks.  
Had Quick Loans properly considered the information it had gathered about Mr S I dont 
think it would have lent to him. The reports Quick Loans have given us show that Mr S had 
additional debts which Mr S hadnt declared to Quick Loans. These amounted to over £700 
extra Mr S was having to repay each month, and when this was added to the amount Mr S 
had declared to Quick Loans, Mr Ss monthly outgoing on debts alone was over £1,000. This 
was before any other outgoings were considered. 
This information was apparent each time Quick Loans did a credit check. So, it was aware 
from the information it has provided that it was likely Mr S would be unable to sustainable 
repay not just loan 1 but all the loans. I think this was a clear indication that Mr S was in a 
debt cycle and relying upon borrowing to repay borrowing. 
I have noted Quick Loans comments around Mr Ss partners income being included as part 
of its checks around affordability. Quick Loans has quoted CONC 5.2A.12 (2) (b) and said 
that it did this under the guidance under this code. However, this code applies to open-
ended agreements  which Mr Ss borrowing is not  so Quick Loans cant rely on it. I also 
think it wasnt reasonable of Quick Loans to rely on Mr Ss partners income when she wasnt 
party to the lending. I cant see that it did any proportionate checks on Mr Ss partners 
information or indeed speak to her. So, this point doesnt change my decision. 
For the reasons explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint from loan 1 onwards. Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 3 from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Loans to take off tax from this interest. Quick Loans must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman