DRN-2916661
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled his loan after he entered into a 
payment plan.   
What happened
Mr B had a loan with Lloyds and towards the end of 2019 he missed a payment. In January 
2020 Lloyds talked to Mr B and entered into a payment plan. Mr B agreed to repay the 
missed payment over the following four months. Lloyds wrote to Mr B and confirmed he 
needed to make a payment of £123.07 as the first payment in the plan. 
Mr B says Lloyds only took £123.06 when it collected his payment in February 2020. Lloyds 
wrote to Mr B to say his payment plan had been broken and its subsequently confirmed that 
was due to his payment being 1p short. 
In March 2020 Mr B entered another payment plan but later told Lloyds he was experiencing 
financial difficulties so it placed collections activity on hold for 30 days. 
Lloyds sent Mr B a default notice that said he needed to pay £364.37 by 28 June 2020 in 
order to avoid his loan defaulting. Mr B visited a Lloyds branches and asked what he needed 
to pay to clear the outstanding arrears. Mr B says he was told to pay a total of £370 which he 
did by way of two payments, the second of which was received on 4 July 2020. 
Lloyds closed defaulted Mr Bs loan on 16 July 2020. Mr B complained and Lloyds 
apologised he was given incorrect information in branch and paid him £50. But it didnt agree 
to remove the default from his credit file. Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it 
was passed to an investigator. They upheld Mr Bs complaint and asked Lloyds to remove 
the default from his credit file and enter into another payment plan. The investigator also 
asked Lloyds to pay Mr B a further £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
Lloyds didnt agree so Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to consider.
Mr B has told us Lloyds collected the first payment due under the plan but it was 1p short. Mr 
B says this was Lloyds error. I recently asked Lloyds to specifically confirm and supply 
evidence to show how the February 2020 payment was made, but its response doesnt give 
that information. I also asked Lloyds to explain why Mr B wasnt told how much he needed to 
pay when he visited its branches. Lloyds response said its branch staff wouldnt have been 
aware of the arrears on Mr Bs loan account. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their patience whilst weve been looking at Mr Bs complaint. 
I can see Mr B ran into some difficulties that led to his loan account being closed and 
defaulted. But I havent been persuaded that Lloyds provided clear guidance to Mr B during 
a difficult period and I dont think its decision to apply a default was fair. 
Mr B says the first payment arrangement failed because Lloyds claimed 1p less than the 
agreed amount. Lloyds confirmed the first payment due under the payment plan was 1p 
short and that the it failed as a result. Mr B has repeatedly told us that Lloyds processed that 
payment so shouldve ensured it took the right amount. I recently asked Lloyds to confirm 
how that payment was taken but its response didnt provide that information. In the absence 
of evidence to the contrary, I agree with Mr B that Lloyds shouldve ensured it collected the 
right payment from him. Had it done so, the payment plan wouldnt have failed. 
I can see Mr B told Lloyds he was experiencing financial difficulties and needed help. In 
March 2020 Lloyds agreed to place the account on hold for 30 days but I havent seen 
anything that shows it tried to contact Mr B after that period ended. Instead, it sent Mr B a 
default notice. I think it couldve done more to contact Mr B to check his situation and 
whether he could start making payments again. 
Mr B has told us that when he received the default notice he visited two branches of Lloyds 
to check how much he needed to pay to bring his payments up to date. Im satisfied the 
evidence Lloyds has provided shows Mr Bs loan was still active on the dates he visited its 
branches. Mr B says he made payments in line with what he was told in branch. I note 
Lloyds upheld Mr Bs complaint on this point and accepts he was given incorrect information. 
I recently asked Lloyds to explain why Mr Bs loan account had closed and defaulted despite 
him making payments in excess of the figures quoted in the default notice. Lloyds responded 
to say a contractual monthly payment became due on 17 June 2020 that increased Mr Bs 
arrears. So despite paying more than the amount quoted in the default notice, his loan 
account was still closed. Lloyds also said its branch staff wouldnt have been aware of the 
arrears unless notified by the customer. 
Im satisfied that when Mr B visited Lloyds branches he did tell staff the loan was in arrears 
and asked for details of how much he needed to pay. As Ive said above, Lloyds final 
response accepts it gave incorrect information about Mr Bs loan account when he visited. I 
think Mr B shouldve been able to rely on Lloyds to give clear information about how much 
he owed and what he needed to pay to ensure his loan wasnt closed and defaulted. Im 
satisfied that if Mr B had been given the correct figures when he visited Lloyds branch, he 
wouldve cleared the arrears and avoided the loan going into default. I note the loan wasnt 
closed until 16 July 2020, around two weeks after Mr B visited Lloyds and made payments. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Whilst I can see Mr B 
was experiencing financial difficulties, I think he couldve avoided defaulting if Lloyds had 
provided clearer guidance and more positive support. Im going to proceed in line with the 
investigators view and tell Lloyds to pay Mr B a total of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. 
The loan account was sold to another business. The investigator recommended Lloyds buy 
the loan account back or contact the new owner of the debt and ensure a fair payment plan 
is agreed. I think both those options are fair. 
The investigator also said Lloyds should remove the default recorded on Mr Bs credit file. I 
agree thats fair. As Ive said above, I think Mr B wouldve avoided the default if Lloyds had 
given him clearer guidance. Again, its possible the new debt owner has taken over reporting 
duties. In line with the above, if Lloyds isnt able to buy the debt back it should contact the 
new debt owner to take steps to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file. 
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr B a total of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
- Arrange a suitable payment plan with Mr B, ideally buying the debt back
- Arrange to remove any record of the default recorded on Mr Bs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman