DRN-3325384
The complaint
Ms T complains about difficulties she experienced when her account was moved to ITI 
Capital Limited. She complains that it took too long to transfer some of her holdings to 
another firm and that it took too long for her to withdraw the cash balances she had. She 
also complains that she was unable to trade during a significant period of time, and this 
caused her a financial loss. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ts complaint, and considered it should be upheld. In 
short, she found that two of the cash withdrawals for £1,440 and £5,204 were unreasonably 
delayed. And she found that it also took too long to transfer certain shares away from ITI, 
although she concluded that as that was an in-specie transfer, there was no financial loss. 
She acknowledged that being unable to trade for a period of time wouldve understandably 
caused Ms T some inconvenience, but she wasnt persuaded to recommend compensation 
for the trades Ms T said she wouldve placed because there was insufficient evidence to 
conclude thats what she wouldve done.
The investigator recommended that ITI pay £350 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused to Ms T. And she recommended 8% simple interest to be added to the withdrawals 
which took too long to be transferred to Ms Ts nominated bank account. 
ITI agreed with the investigators proposal for putting things right, but Ms T did not. She said:
The platform didnt allow her to trade between August and September 2020. 
She tried to get through to ITI over the phone, but she was never able to get through. 
She said this continued well into August 2020, and she gave up calling after she 
requested her portfolio be transferred to another provider. She said she expected 
that transfer to happen within a reasonable time. 
As a result she said that the compensation the investigator had awarded was 
significantly lower than what she thought she should be paid for the inconvenience 
caused by her inability to trade, and for the resulting financial loss to her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that the investigators findings are not in dispute insofar as they relate to the 
various delays which she recommended be compensated. As such, I dont intend to address 
those issues again, except to confirm that I agree with the investigators conclusions around 
the withdrawal delays and the transfer of holdings away from ITI. Ive made the same award 
in respect of these matters below. 
Ms T has asked for additional compensation for not being able to trade for a period of time. 
Ive therefore focused my findings on this aspect of Ms Ts complaint. In cases where a 
consumer claims consequential financial loss due to being unable to trade, my role, when 
considering whether such compensation is fair and reasonable, is to assess the evidence of 
what trades the consumer would likely have placed. 
In this case, theres no contemporaneous evidence of specific trades which Ms T wanted to 
place but was prevented from doing so by virtue of ITIs actions or omissions. I dont 
disbelieve Ms Ts assertions that she was unable to use her account to trade for a period of 
time  but there is also no evidence of any attempts to notify ITI that she had specific trades 
that she wanted to place and she was unable to. 
For example, Ive seen an email chain between Ms T and ITI on 12 August 2020. Im 
persuaded this shows that Ms T was unable to trade online  but having explained this to ITI, 
it replied and said that the dealing desk would contact her urgently if she wanted to make an 
immediate transaction. In response to that email Ms T couldve told ITI what trades she was 
specifically looking to make  but she did not do this and only instructed ITI to transfer 
dividends shed received to her nominated bank account. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to ask ITI to compensate Ms T for 
specific trades shes now saying she wouldve made, but which she did not make ITI aware 
of at the time. I do agree with the investigator that her inability to trade wouldve likely 
contributed to the distress and inconvenience she was already experiencing as a result of 
the many other issues ITI was having when migrating her account over. And so, taking all 
this into account, including the inconvenience she experienced through the various delays in 
allowing her to withdraw her cash and in transferring her portfolio over, I agree that ITIs 
initial offer of £200 was too low. I agree with the investigator that overall, given the issues Ms 
T experienced, a total award of £350 is fair and reasonable. And so thats what I award 
below. 
Putting things right
I uphold Ms Ts complaint and I consider shes entitled to compensation. Having reviewed 
the investigators award, I see no reason to change it  I agree that its fair and reasonable. 
So my decision is that ITI Capital Limited must pay the compensation I outline below within 
28 days of when we tell it Ms T has accepted this decision. ITI must:
Pay 8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount of £1,440 from 1 September 2020 
(which is five working days following on the from the request) until 
23 September 2020 (when the money arrived with Ms T);
Pay 8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount of £5,204 from 13 October 2020 
(which is five working days following on the from the request) until 16 October 2020 
(when the money arrived with Ms T);
Pay £350 (this includes ITIs original offer of £200 and is not in addition to it) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by:
oThe delay in transferring her portfolio; 
oThe delays in transferring her cash to her bank account. oOther service issues including some correspondence not being replied to by 
ITI; and
oBeing unable to trade. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint  and I award the compensation Ive 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman