DRN-3729434
The complaint
Mr M, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), unfairly turned 
down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr M won a free holiday and while on that holiday, in October 2010, he acquired a trial 
membership of timeshare product from a company I will call C. This cost of this was £3,395. 
He then traded this in for full membership and 751 points in April 2011 at a cost of £12,599. 
In August 2011 he acquired additional points at a cost of £8,249. The latter two purchases 
were funded by a loan from BPF.
In July 2020 PR made a claim against BPF for problems Mr M said he had encountered with 
the timeshare. PR has listed a number of allegations which I wont reproduce here, but I 
have taken note of them. He said the nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to 
him, so he was able to make a claim against BPF under s.75 CCA. Alternatively, the 
representations became terms of the contract, so there was an actionable breach of 
contract. PR said that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA, so. 
Finally, PR alleged that BPF paid the timeshare supplier a commission at the time of sale 
and asked for information about that, although PR didnt make any claims arising from the 
payment of commission.
BPF responded to the claim with a holding letter, but didnt provide a final response. PR 
brought a complaint to this service on Mr Ms behalf in July 2021. One of our investigators 
considered the s.75 and s.140A CCA claims and concluded that the former had been 
brought too late under the Limitation Act (LA). She didnt think there had been an unfair 
relationship and so she didnt think the S140A claim would succeed. She didnt consider the 
claim of unaffordable lending should be upheld. So she didnt think BPF needed to do 
anything further to answer the claims.
PR didnt agree and said the sales practices of C were intentionally misleading and 
amounted to concealment which would extend the six year time limit. It also said that there 
was an unfair relationship and the burden was on the bank to demonstrate otherwise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under s.75 CCA, BPF is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr M is making to BPF. I 
will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr M says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him 
when he bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr M had to make that claim within 
six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in 
December 2010  because that is when he says he lost out having relied on false 
statements of fact.
As Mr M first made a claim to BPF in July 2020, that fell outside of the time limit set out in 
the LA.
S 32 Claim
Section 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent 
misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the time the consumer 
has to raise a claim. However, I believe Mr M has raised a number of issues with the product 
(over and above commission) in his claim/complaint and those issues could have been 
discoverable earlier. I consider that that he either had discovered or ought to have been able 
to discover that something had gone wrong within six years. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr M is able to rely on s.32 LA here either. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that 
the timeshare provider was acting as agent to BPF. I cannot see that its role was to make an 
impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. 
Overall, I think BPF was able to reject the S 75 claim. It is ultimately for the courts to decide 
whether or not any claim that Mr M may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under 
the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those claims that Mr M might 
have against the timeshare supplier and/or GE have most likely exceeded the time limits set 
out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I 
am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in not accepting the claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mr M had to make his claim within six years of when the loan ended - which I gather 
is still in existence. That means the claim under S140A was made in time.
Unfair Relationship
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). 
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by C. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that Cs actions as an agent of BPF generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to PR Mr M was pressurised into taking out the agreement. I can 
understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these sales meetings 
ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the benefits of the 
product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on 
the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the 
offer.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr M was unreasonably pressurised to 
sign the agreement. 
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I have not been given a copy of the contract, but I have seen Cs Articles of Association. 
However, I understand from having read similar contracts used by C that theses usually set 
out the length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that it was subject 
to availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what Mr M thought he was acquiring and 
what he  actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair 
relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. My 
understanding that commission would have been paid, but based on the typical rates I have 
seen, I think its unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this 
case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not presided there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
The PR has referred to the EU Directive on timeshares has been enacted into English law in 
the Timeshare Regulations 1997, which amended the Timeshare Act 2010. None of those 
provisions prohibited the sale of timeshares like the one Mr M bought.
In the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points-based timeshare were 
basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. So I am satisfied that these types of timeshares have 
never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at the time of Mr Ms sale or after. 
Based on the evidence I have seen; I do not think either the timeshare agreement or the 
related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said. Nor do I consider the other case 
law referred to by the PR gives grounds for upholding this complaint.
AffordabilityThe PR says that BPF failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to Mr M. Even if 
I were to conclude that BPF or its agents didnt carry out the proper checks for 
creditworthiness and affordability when arranging a loan for Mr M, I would still need to be 
satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for him and/or that he lost out as a result, in order 
to uphold this part of their complaint. I have no basis for upholding this element of the 
complaint on either the claim that proper checks were not carried out or that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mr Ms claim 
under s.75 CCA as it was brought too late and he did not meet the criteria to satisfy S140A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman