DRN-3145259
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs and Mr H 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mrs and Mr H have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. However, this did 
happened about 20 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt remember all the 
details from so long ago. And, in fact, Ive seen a copy of a form in which theyve signed to 
say they want to have PPI. So I think its likely they were aware of the PPI being offered, and 
agreed to have it, even if they now dont remember it. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr H, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Hs particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mrs and Mr Hs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs and Mr H were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr H received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr H would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr H in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Mr H has said he had a significant medical condition at the time this PPI started. In 
many PPI policies this could have made it difficult to make a claim. But Ive read the 
wording of this particular policy, and it didnt have an exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr H couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr H to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr H took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman