DRN-2214801
The complaint
Mr M complains that a used car that he acquired from Moneybarn No.1 Limited
(Moneybarn) under a conditional sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for
purpose, contrary to the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA).
What happened
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement for the car with Moneybarn in May 2017. The
car was then some six years old with a recorded mileage of 71,620 miles. The car had a
cash price of £8,483; Mr M paid an advance payment of £500 and agreed to pay the balance 
plus finance charges (£15,824.98) by 59 monthly instalments of £268.22 each.
Mr M says he had problems with the engine from the outset  it would rattle, shake and bang
constantly when stationary. In June 2017 he took the car back to the supplying dealer (SD)
who arranged for a repairer (the repairer) to investigate. The repairer replaced two injectors
and returned the car to Mr M.
Mr M says he told SD that he wanted to reject the car, but SD wouldnt agree. Within two or
three weeks of getting the car back the same problems returned. He took the car back to
SD. The repairer looked at the car again and carried out further work. The same problems
persisted, so in August 2017 Mr M had the car inspected by an independent garage (IG),
who reported:
Appears to be misfiring during cold start  engine shaking visible  engine strip required to
find fault.
Mr M went back to SD. It blamed the repairer for not curing the problem and refused to help.
Mr M had the car checked again by IG in April 2018, who reported:
Re-examined vehicle  engine is still shaking intermittently  unable to diagnose root cause
without stripping engine.
In April 2019, Mr M complained to the repairer that it hadnt cured the fault. The repairer
replaced the electronic steering lock, but this didnt fix the problem. In May 2019 Mr M
complained to Moneybarn, who arranged for an independent engineer (IE) to examine the
car.
When IE inspected the car, the engine was slightly warm. It started the car and conducted a
22 mile road test. It reported that the car performed as would be expected with no abnormal
noises or vibrations. It said that no faults were present at the time of its inspection, and
concluded that the previous repairs had been successful.
In the light of this report, Moneybarn thought the problems Mr M had experienced were due
to normal wear and tear, rather than any fault existing or developing at delivery. So it didnt
accept Mr Ms complaint.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said SD had
recognised a fault was present in 2017 by arranging for the repairer to carry out repairs.
However, he accepted the faults had persisted. Moneybarn had been given the opportunity
to resolve the fault but had failed to do so. So he thought it was reasonable now to allow
Mr M to reject the car.
He recommended that Moneybarn should:
1. cancel the conditional sale agreement with Mr M paying nothing more;
2. collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
3. refund the £500 advance payment to Mr M plus yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment by Mr M until settlement; and
4. pay Mr M compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Moneybarn responded to say that although it didnt agree with the outcome of the
investigators findings, it would accept his recommendations to bring the matter to a close.
Mr M had a number of discussions by phone with the investigator. He said that in view of all
the problems he had experienced with the car, he didnt think it was fair for him simply to
hand the car back, and for Moneybarn to keep all the money he had paid  nearly £7,000.
As the car had been faulty from the outset, he thought most, if not all, of his payments
should be returned to him.
The investigator said it was open to Mr M to ask for an ombudsman to review his complaint,
or to bring an action against Moneybarn in the courts. However, either course would mean a
delay of several more months before the issue was resolved. He also indicated to Mr M that
in neither case would he get back any of what he had paid.
Mr M felt he couldnt continue with the car as it was any longer, and so agreed to the
termination of the agreement on the basis suggested, which Moneybarn duly carried out in
July 2019. However, in January 2020 Mr M complained to this service that the way the
investigator had acted meant his complaint hadnt been resolved fairly. So his complaint has
been passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr M and to Moneybarn on 27 August 2020. In it I said 
that on the evidence available, I agreed with the investigator that the car was clearly faulty at
delivery, and in spite of a number of repair attempts the faults were still present when Mr M
complained to Moneybarn in 2019.
I noted that IE was unable to replicate the faults when it inspected the car  possibly 
because the engine had already been warmed up. But this didnt alter my view.
So I thought it was fair and reasonable that Mr M should have been allowed to reject the car
and terminate the agreement. This had happened, and Moneybarn had refunded Mr Ms
advance payment of £500 (with interest) and paid him compensation of £200 for the distress
and inconvenience he suffered.
However, I disagreed with what the investigator also told Mr M  that in these circumstances
he wasnt entitled to be refunded anything else he had paid. I thought he should have asked 
Mr M for more information about his expenditure, and the time he was without the car, and 
should have considered whether it was fair for any further payment to be made by 
Moneybarn to Mr M.I said that when this complaint was passed to me, Id asked Mr M to provide evidence of 
what he had spent in respect of the car, and why he thought it should be refunded to him. 
This fell under the following headings:
Instalment payments under the conditional sale agreement
Mr M had consistently complained that while he was pleased to be rid of the faulty car, he
was unhappy that after all the monthly instalments he had paid towards owning the car
under the conditional sale agreement he was now left with nothing for his investment. He
thought a monthly instalment of £268.22 was too much to have paid for the use of a
troublesome car.
Under the conditional sale agreement, Mr M had paid an advance payment of £500, and a 
further 24 monthly instalments totalling £6,437.28 up till and including May 2019. The 
agreement was to run for 5 years. So if it had continued for its full term, Mr M would have 
had to pay a further £9,387.70 until he owned the car. (Mr M said it was his intention to pay 
off the agreement sooner which, if he had done so, would have reduced this payment to 
some extent.)
The recorded mileage of the car was 71,620 when Mr M acquired it in 2017. At the date of
the IE report in May 2019 it was 95,573. When Mr M returned it in July 2019 it was 97,000.
So over the two years Mr M had the car it covered a total of 15,380 miles.
I said that when a car the subject of a hire purchase or conditional sale agreement was 
rejected under the CRA, and the agreement was brought to an end, we thought it was fair 
that the consumer paid for the use he had had of the car until then.
We based this payment on the monthly instalment the consumer was paying under the
agreement because this was the contractual payment under the agreement while they were
using the car, and they werent committed to continuing payments until the end of the
agreement  they had various rights to terminate the agreement sooner.
Mr M complained that he was paying a high interest rate under the agreement, and so had 
ended up paying a high monthly figure for the use of the car. However, this was the effect of 
the agreement he had entered into. It wasnt our practice to substitute a commercial hiring 
rate for the contractual monthly payments.
Mr M said the car was troublesome from the time he acquired it. It didnt give him the
enjoyment he was expecting, and he was always fearful that it would break down. While I
accepted that the car wasnt satisfactory, he was able to use the car, and did cover a 
significant mileage in it.
I also had to bear in mind that a lot of the conduct he complained about was that of SD and
the repairer, businesses for which Moneybarn wasnt responsible. It seemed Mr M wasnt
aware he could complain to Moneybarn until he did so in May 2019.
However, I did think it was fair that Mr M was compensated for periods when, because of the
underlying faults, he was unable to use the car, and for any extra costs he suffered because 
of the faults. So I had asked him to provide details of when he couldnt use the car, and any
additional costs he had to pay because of the faults.
Periods for which Mr M was without the car
Mr M said the car was taken in for repairs on two dates in June and July 2017, and one datein May 2018. Each time he was without the car for between ten and fourteen days, and
wasnt provided with a courtesy car.
He said the car went in for inspections on three dates in June, July and August 2017, and
two dates in April and May 2018. He hadnt said how long this took, but I assumed it wouldnt
have been more than two days each time.
Mr M paid the last monthly instalment in May 2019. He said that after his complaint to
Moneybarn he made little use of the car, although he added 1,427 miles between the car
being inspected by IE and being returned to Moneybarn.
Mr M had said that his monthly insurance cost for the car during the agreement was
approximately £113, although I hadnt seen any evidence for this. He thought this should be
reimbursed to him for the times he wasnt able to use the car.
I said that, all in all, I thought it was reasonable that Moneybarn should refund Mr M a further 
3 months instalments totalling £804.66, plus three months insurance premiums, to 
compensate him for the times he was without the car and his poor experience with it during 
the agreement.
This was in addition to what Moneybarn had already paid him, and was subject in the case 
of the insurance premiums to Mr M producing satisfactory evidence of what he had paid.
Insurance costs following the ending of the agreement
Mr M said that the ending of the agreement in July 2019 meant that he had to cancel his
insurance on the car and pay £350. He has produced some correspondence with his insurer
and its agents, but nothing which explained this figure or why it arose as a result of the 
ending of the agreement.
I said that this might be a cost which it would be reasonable for Moneybarn to reimburse. But
until Mr M produced evidence explaining how it arose, I couldnt comment further.
Inspection and repair costs
Mr M said he had to pay £70 on each occasion he took the car to IG for inspection.
However, he hasnt produced any evidence of these payments. I thought it was reasonable 
that Moneybarn should reimburse those payments, subject to Mr M producing satisfactory
evidence of them having been paid by Mr M.
Mr M said he had to pay £300 towards the replacement of the electronic steering lock in
May 2019, and thought Moneybarn should reimburse this amount. However, I said there 
wasnt any evidence to suggest this was connected to the shaking/rattling/banging fault, and 
as it occurred more than 6 months after delivery the presumption under the CRA would be 
that it wasnt present or developing at delivery. On this basis, I said I couldnt reasonably 
require Moneybarn to refund this.
I said that, for the reasons Id explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence 
that I received from either Mr M or from Moneybarn by 26 September 2020, I intended to 
uphold this complaint, and to order Moneybarn No.1 Limited, in addition to the actions it had 
already taken and the sums it had already paid Mr M, to:
1. refund Mr M a further 3 months instalments totalling £804.66, plus three months 
insurance premiums, to compensate him for the times he was without the car and his poor experience with it during the agreement, subject in the case of the insurance 
premiums to Mr M producing satisfactory evidence of what he paid; and
2. pay Mr M the costs of having the car inspected by IG in 2017 and 2018, subject in 
each case to his producing satisfactory evidence of what he paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that he accepted my provisional decision, although he 
still felt cheated out of all the money he had paid.
He also said that in relation to the £300 he paid in May 2019 towards the replacement of the 
electronic steering lock, he hadnt asked for this work to be done. He had taken the car back 
to the repairer complaining about the same symptoms as before. The repairer did this work 
and said it would cure the problem, but it didnt. So he thought he should be reimbursed this 
amount too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the replacement of the electronic steering lock, I still think this seems unrelated 
to the other symptoms Mr M has described, and didnt cure them. I note what he has said 
about how the work came to be done, but on the evidence available Im not persuaded it 
would be reasonable for me to require Moneybarn to refund this amount.
All in all, I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable that Moneybarn should pay Mr M 
the further compensation I proposed in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think Moneybarn should pay Mr M the further compensation as set out in my final decision 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Moneybarn No.1 Limited, in addition to 
the actions its already taken and the sums its already paid Mr M, to:
1. refund Mr M a further 3 months instalments totalling £804.66, plus three months 
insurance premiums, to compensate him for the times he was without the car and his 
poor experience with it during the agreement, subject in the case of the insurance 
premiums to Mr M producing satisfactory evidence of what he paid; and
2. pay Mr M the costs of having the car inspected by IG in 2017 and 2018, subject in 
each case to his producing satisfactory evidence of what he paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Lennox TowersOmbudsman