DRN-2743302
The complaint
 Mr V has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
 
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Mr V with a loan of £7,500.00 in June 2017. This loan had a 48-
months term with a monthly repayment amount of £3127.75. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £15,252 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided this loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. TFS 
Loans disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Vs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are overarching questions that I 
need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Vs complaint. These questions 
are:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
V would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr V wouldve been able to do so?
TFS Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TFS Loans to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Vs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr V. In practice this 
meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Mr V undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr V. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
I can see from the documentation TFS Loans submitted that it carried out checks before it 
agreed to lend to Mr V. It says it recorded down his declared income and expenditure and 
did this through a series of phone call discussions. It says it verified Mr Vs income using an 
online tool. It then carried out a credit check and asked Mr V questions about what it found 
from this.
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said. And based on its calculation and the 
disposable income that it assessed Mr V to have, the loan repayments on the surface of it 
looked affordable. But when I look through the credit search results that it would have had in 
front of it, the amount of impaired credit data doesnt seem to add up with the amount of 
disposable income TFS assessed Mr V to have. Mr V had mortgage arrears, two defaults 
that hadnt been settled, two open payday loans, two credit cards that were spent up to the 
limit and a third that was spent over the limit. I appreciate TFS asked Mr V about some of the 
impaired credit on his file but when I consider what Ive seen on the search and also the 
amount Mr V was borrowing in relation to his income along with the total cost and length of 
the loan, I think TFS Loans should have carried out a complete review of his finances to see 
whether the loan repayments were sustainable, including verifying his expenditure in greater 
detail.   
As I cant see that TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr V with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Mr V 
would have been unable to repay this loan?As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mr V would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr V has provided bank statements to our service from a three-month period of time leading 
up to when the loan was granted, and Ive carefully considered the information provided. 
Having done so, its clear Mr V was gambling heavily on a regular basis. The amounts were 
significant. In April for example he spent over eight times his monthly income on gambling 
transactions and this significant spend continued in May and June. It is clear from looking at 
these statements that Mr V was having serious problems with his finances. If TFS loans had 
carried out further checks, it would have seen that the loan repayments were not sustainable 
in anyway. 
Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown TFS Loans that Mr V would not have been able to repay this loan 
in a sustainable manner as the information he has provided shows he was having significant 
problems managing his finances. So, Im satisfied that its failure to carry out proportionate 
checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr V.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
  Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Vs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr V made, direct to TFS Loans and any third-parties, should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £7,500.00 originally lent. 
If a balance remains, TFS Loans should look to arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr V. 
If Mr V has already repaid more than £7,500.00 then TFS Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr V;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr V to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Vs complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman