DRN-2080037
The complaint
Miss N complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss N fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
On 6 March 2020 Miss N saw a bag for sale on a social media platform. Miss N made a 
bank transfer on the same day for £200, to purchase the bag, and was told by the seller the 
item would shipped straight away and shed receive it the following day. Unknown to her at 
the time Miss N had sent money to a fraudster  she became suspicious when she didnt 
hear from the seller and was unable to get in contact with them. 
Miss N contacted the bank shed sent the money to and was told it would investigate the 
transaction once Revolut had got in contact with it. From what Ive seen Miss N reported the 
scam to Revolut on 8 March 2020, via an online chat. Revolut told Miss N it couldnt recall 
the transfer and that she should report the matter to the police. The police report was 
submitted to Revolut and following this it contacted the receiving bank. On 16 April 2020 
Revolut told Miss N it had heard back from the receiving bank and there were no funds 
available for recovery.
Miss N complained to Revolut and it issued its final response on 20 April 2020. It said the 
payment was authorised and that it tried to reach out as soon as possible to the receiving 
bank, but the receiving bank confirmed the funds had already been withdrawn. Because of 
this it didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Miss N then brought her complaint to our service  she said she wouldnt have expected 
Revolut to know the transaction was fraudulent, but she thought it should have done more to 
try and recover the funds, and had it acted sooner than it did in contacting the receiving bank 
there may have been a chance of retrieving the money. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Revolut could have done anything 
to prevent the scam  he didnt consider the payment Miss N made was particularly out of 
the ordinary, or so unusual that it should have raised Revoluts suspicions. And, while he 
thought Revolut could have been more helpful when Miss N first contacted it, hed seen that 
even if it had acted sooner it wouldnt have made any difference  as the funds had been 
moved from the receiving bank account so quickly. 
Miss N didnt accept our investigators view, as she thought Revolut had handled things 
poorly. Because Miss N didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss N, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Revoluts actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to 
leave Miss Ns account. I also dont think it could have recovered the money from the 
receiving bank, even if it had acted quicker than it did.   
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Ns complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should 
reimburse her the £200 she has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
- the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty); and
- regulated firms like Revolut are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recentyears, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss N, when Miss N made the transfer to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Miss N has accepted that she authorised the transfer for £200. Because of this, Revolut had 
an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Revolut shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.  Miss N has said she wouldnt have expected 
Revolut to know the transaction was fraudulent  but I have gone on to consider whether I 
think it ought to have done. 
Having reviewed Miss Ns account activity for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payment Miss N made to fraudster was particularly unusual or out of 
character in comparison to the normal account activity. Miss N had made several other 
payments/transactions for over £100. So I dont think the payment for £200 was particularly 
out of character or unusual and Im not persuaded Revolut acted unreasonably in not making 
enquiries about the payment before processing it. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Revolut did what it shouldve done once Miss N reported 
to it, that shed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Revolut made to 
recover the money, once Miss N reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Revolut to refund the money to Miss N, I need to be satisfied that Revolut should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I think Revolut could have acted sooner  I dont consider that it needed to have 
waited for Miss N to provide evidence shed reported the matter to the police, before it 
contacted the receiving bank. Because of this, Ive gone on to consider whether it made any 
difference. Here Ive seen from the receiving bank that the £200 Miss N transferred, was 
removed from the receiving account within twenty minutes of the payment being made. So 
even if Revolut had contacted the receiving bank as soon as Miss N had told it about the 
scam, it wouldnt have made any difference and it wouldnt have been able to recover the 
money Miss N had paid the fraudster.
Its very unfortunate Miss N has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for her. But I 
must consider the main perpetrator is the fraudster and, in the circumstances, I dont think I 
can fairly say Revolut should have done more to prevent her losing this money. So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to ask Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint against 
Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Stephen WiseOmbudsman