DRN-3853177
Complaint
Mr N has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) acted unfairly towards 
him when providing him with a fixed sum loan to purchase a timeshare with his wife in     
May 2017.
Mr N, who is being assisted with his complaint by his wife who Ill refer to as Mrs N, said that 
no affordability checks were undertaken so no procedure was followed. He has also 
complained about what hes described as the aggressive and pressured sales tactics 
employed by Shawbrooks agent.
Background
Shawbrook provided Mr N with, at least, two fixed sum loans to purchase fractional rights in 
Club La Costas (CLC) Fractional Property Owners Club (FPOC).
Mr N has confirmed that he is limiting his complaint to the fixed-sum loan agreement he 
entered into in May 2017
The agreement
Shawbrook provided Mr N with a loan to facilitate the purchase of 1200 points in the FPOC 
for £7,377.00. The loan was in Mr Ns sole name but the FPOC membership was jointly held 
by Mr and Mrs N. The 1200 points provided Mr and Mrs N with two weeks of property rights 
in the allocated property of 436-3, which was in the Benal Beach resort. Mr N and Mrs N 
received a £600 contribution to their first years holiday expenses as a result of agreeing to 
this purchase.
Mr N had an existing agreement with Shawbrook for a timeshare purchased in March 2016. 
There was an outstanding balance of £16,196.00 on that agreement. Mr Ns May 2017 loan 
included funds to settle the balance on the March 2016 agreement. So the total amount 
advanced to Mr N in May 2017 was £23,573.00. 
Mr Ns loan had a fixed interest rate of 11.3% per year, which translated into an APR of 
11.9% and a 180 month (or 15-year term). This meant that the total amount repayable of 
£49,030.20, which included interest, fees and charges of £25,457.20, was due to be repaid 
in 180 monthly instalments of £272.39. Its also worth noting that as part of the terms and 
conditions of the FPOC Mr N was required to pay annual management charges. The annual 
management charge at the time of the agreement was €1,160.00.
The information provided suggests that Mr Ns ceased making payments from June 2018, 
after his direct debit mandate was cancelled in May 2018. The account eventually defaulted 
in May 2019 and the outstanding debt was eventually sold to a third-party debt purchaser.
Mr Ns initial complaint and Shawbrooks response to it
Mr N (and Mrs N) complained to Shawbrook in April 2018. The content of the letters 
suggests that it was written by Mrs N on their behalf and paragraphs 2 to 4 of the letter of 
complaint say:
Our finance agreement is linked with a Holiday Club Membership with Club La Costa (CLC) 
which was opened in 2016 when we attended CLCs offices in London under a very forceful 
sales process. There was no representative present on that day, nor when we took our first 
prelude holiday with CLC. We were again subject to a similarly aggressive sales pitch by 
CLC and again no representative from Shawbrook. We were not taken through any 
affordability check and the only contact we had with Shawbrook was when you spoke to my 
husband, Mr N [name removed for anonymisation purposes], in order to verify his 
identification. At this time the payments were affordable.
On our second prelude holiday through CLC in May 2017 we were taken through yet another 
forceful and aggressive sales pitch during which our membership was upgraded. At this 
particular time I was not working and CLC were fully aware of this. As before, we were not 
taken through and affordability process and there was no representative from Shawbrook. 
My husband spoke briefly once again to you to verify his identification. CLC gave us £600 as 
a sweetener towards the next stage of payments whilst my new business took off. At this 
time on our holiday, my business had not started.
Unfortunately my business was not successful and whilst my husband has been able to 
make the payments, we are now severely struggling financially. Whilst we have made every 
effort to make the payment each month, this is now putting a strain on our finances and he 
can no longer to afford to make these payments.   
 
Our complaint mainly relates to the fact that we were mis-sold this finance agreement 
through CLC seeing as no affordability checks were undertaken on either occasion so no 
procedure was followed. We have struggled to keep our payments up-to-date but are now 
unable to continue due to my having been out of work for a considerable period of time.
Shawbrook issued its final response, which didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint, on 11 December 
2018. In summary, its response said Mr N:
had previous experience which meant that he would have been familiar with how 
such timeshare schemes worked and that he was under no obligation to purchase.
was provided with appropriate documentation to decide whether the scheme was 
right for him and he could have cancelled within the cooling off period if he didnt wish 
to proceed.
signed a members declaration to confirm that he read and understood the 
management fees that would be applicable under the agreement.
wasnt provided with any guarantees that properties would be sold at a profit at the 
end of the scheme.
did have a creditworthiness assessment completed on him in line with Shawbrooks 
regulatory obligations. From the information, it as aware of at the time and the credit 
checks it carried out, it considered the loan was affordable for Mr N.   
Mr N remained dissatisfied at Shawbrooks response and referred the complaint to our 
service.Our investigators assessment and Shawbrooks response
Mr Ns complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. And she concluded that:
Shawbrook failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing 
to lend to Mr N.
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown 
Shawbrook that Mr N was not in a position to make the payments to this agreement 
in a sustainable manner.
Shawbrook unfairly entered into this fixed-sum loan agreement with Mr N.
Our investigator then set out a method of putting things right for Mr N, which she found 
addressed Shawbrooks failings and Mr Ns resulting loss.
 
Shawbrook didnt accept our investigators assessment. It provided an initial response, on 24 
June 2022, which was divided into sections and which I have repeated. And in summary its 
response said:
The proper approach to considering this complaint
The requirement for the Ombudsman Services decision to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case is important as it requires a balancing exercise to 
be undertaken by the Ombudsman Service to consider the evidence and information 
before it and make a decision (having regard to that evidence and no further) on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The Ombudsman Service is not an inquisitorial tribunal. It is a tribunal which must 
decide a complaint in accordance with its statutory obligation under the adversarial 
system. This is clear from the fact that the Ombudsman Service can, if it does not 
consider a complaint can be fairly determined without having a hearing, invite the 
parties to take part in a hearing under DISP 3.5.5R and give oral evidence.
Mr Ns purchase
Mr N (in a letter written by Mrs N) complained to Shawbrook saying that when 
agreeing to enter both loan agreements with Shawbrook they were not taken through 
an affordability check.
Shawbrook did carry out an appropriate creditworthiness assessment of Mr Ns 
application for the May 2017 loan. This assessment took no account of any income 
Mrs N may have then been earning from her newly established business as it had 
only been established 1 year.
Mr N confirmed that he had a gross annual income of £50,000.00 and also confirmed 
his employer. Mr and Mrs N also signed the Members Declaration confirming that 
they understood the annual Management Charge and that they would be sent an 
invoice for this. The declaration also confirmed that Mr and Mrs N understood what 
they were purchasing and having considered this as well as their other financial 
commitments were able to pay the amounts due and as their purchase was made 
with the assistance of finance they agreed they could meet the monthly repayments.
Shawbrooks creditworthiness assessmentShawbrook accepts that it was required to undertake a creditworthiness assessment 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) as it stood in May 2017. These 
provisions did not and could not go further than the provisions in Section 55B of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), as it was not permissible to go further than 
European Union law.
It is important to have regard to (and irrational not to have regard to) the fact that: 
Shawbrook used industry standard assessment tools; Mr N had a gross annual 
income of £50,00.00; the May 2017 loan consolidated Mr Ns existing March 2016 
loan and only increased his payments by just £84.12; Mr Ns debt to income ratio 
was just 87% compared to the maximum 130%; Mr Ns monthly debt commitments 
going forward were only £1,825.48; Mr N wasnt using one of his overdrafts at all and 
the other was well within its limit; the industry standard Risk Navigator scores 
showed that the possibility of Mr N being unable to make his repayments as they fell 
due and in a sustainable manner without incurring further financial difficulties or 
experiencing adverse consequences was only 4%; Mr N was the owner occupier of a 
home with substantial equity; there was no evidence of any late payments.
Bearing in mind everything obtained the only fair and reasonable conclusion which 
can be reached is that Shawbrook undertook a reasonable and proportionate 
creditworthiness assessment.
Causation   
It is irrational to conclude that Mr N would not have purchased his (and Mrs Ns) 
membership of the FPOC had Shawbrook not provided him with this agreement.     
On the contrary, Mr N approached Shawbrook for finance because he wanted the 
benefits of the FPOC in the first place.
So even if it is concluded that Shawbrook shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr N 
(which Shawbrook doesnt accept) theres no basis for providing a remedy which 
seeks to put Mr N in the position he would now be in if he hadnt taken the FPOC 
membership in May 2017  especially as there appears to be no dispute that the 
March 2016 agreement was affordable.
Shawbrook then provided a further response on 5 August 2022. I wont repeat the parts of 
this letter which restated the content of the 24 June 2022 submission. In summary the          
5 August 2022 response said:
The investigator is not an underwriter. Shawbrooks underwriters re-reviewed the 
checks carried out at the time and still concluded that there was nothing exceptional 
about Mr Ns applications to have warranted additional checks.
Mr N was an existing customer who had a clear payment history and hed never 
previously raised any issues with respect to financial difficulties or affordability. No 
evidence has been provided to show that he was in an unstable financial position.
The borrowing was not significant. Mr N had an annual income of £50,000.00 and 
existing unsecured debt of £19,714.00 (most of which was going to be consolidated) 
and a mortgage of £243,000 on a property he had substantial equity in. The loan size 
was well within the industry standard maximum of £25,000 for unsecured lending. 
The monthly payments for this loan were only £84.12 more than the payments for loan 1 (Mr N spent more than double this amount in restaurants and coffee shops in 
May 2017 and May 2017). Equally the loan was repayable over 15 years and could 
be settled earlier without penalty.
The investigator relied on bank statements in support of her view that the loan was 
unaffordable. However, while one of the accounts was in Mr Ns name it is clearly 
being used and funded by Mrs N. So the bank statements suggest that the bills 
werent being covered solely by Mr N as the investigator suggested. And no evidence 
has been provided to support the fact that Mrs N wasnt working.    
Mr N was receiving an annual income of £50,000.00 and this was confirmed by his 
statements.
It is agreed that Mr N was using an overdraft. But only a portion of the spending 
relate to regular payments  some £2,049.55 against Mr Ns salary of £3,019.50. The 
remaining debits for Mr Ns account are discretionary expenses.
It is Shawbrooks position that if Mrs N was unemployed, he kept this information 
from it at the time of the application. However, Mrs N has had a business since 2017, 
which according to its website continues to trade. And if the Ombudsman is going to 
take into account that Mrs N wasnt working, the evidence provided shows that she 
was.
Even if the loan had been refused Mr N was already tied to an existing FPOC 
membership and the associated loss. So the question of any loss should be limited to 
the extra Mr N had to pay, rather than the whole amount.
No evidence, other than the assertions of Mr and Mrs N, has been provided that the 
loan was unaffordable. Rather, it seems as though two years into the membership  
Mr and Mrs N decided they no longer wanted the product and sought a way to exit it.
The investigators proposed remedy of writing off the loan and refunding the 
payments made plus 8% interest wouldnt be fair and reasonable, as it would leave 
Mr N receiving a windful having paid nothing for the benefits he enjoyed. Furthermore 
refunding the property management fees, which were paid as a completely separate 
agreement which Shawbrook wasnt a party to is also unfair.  
If FOS investigators are going to re-assess whether, in their view, the Loan was 
affordable then they must consider all of the relevant financial circumstances -- not 
just a very narrow snapshot. The availability of credit, savings, the amount of equity 
in a home and whether there is a mortgage, investments, the customers purchasing 
and borrowing history as an indicator of their financial sophistication, other bank 
accounts which are not disclosed or explained -- these are all relevant to affordability 
and any purported re-assessment of affordability using only one or two current 
accounts, without considering those other circumstances, is incomplete, flawed and 
open to scrutiny. 
My provisional decision of 3 November 2022I issued a provisional decision  on 3 November 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ns complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework in place at the time Shawbrook lent to 
Mr N.
The regulatory framework
Shawbrook entered into this fixed-sum loan agreement with Mr N after regulation of 
Consumer Credit Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) on 1 April 2014. Shawbrook initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer 
credit before it went on to successfully apply for authorisation as a consumer credit provider. 
Shawbrooks interim permission to provide consumer credit and its eventual authorisation to 
do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
So Shawbrook needed to comply with the principles in all of its dealings with Mr N. The 
principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. I think that some of the key principles for 
me to set out here are:
Principle 1 which states:
A firm must conduct its business with integrity.
Principle 2 which states:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And Principle 6 which states:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules and guidance which apply to firms specifically when carrying out 
credit related regulated activities - such as entering into a regulated credit agreement as a 
lender like Shawbrook did with Mr N here. These rules have changed over time and where I 
refer to provisions of CONC I refer to them as they were at the time Shawbrook entered into 
this agreement with Mr N in May 2017. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement 
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.3G contains guidance on the scope of pre-contract assessments. It says:
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to 
factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands 
the customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects 
this to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10).
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.8G provides an example of the above and says:
An example of where a firm ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful may be that the information supplied by the customer concerning income or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other available information.Other relevant publications
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But Im also required to take into account any other guidance, standards, 
relevant codes of practice, and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice.
Shawbrook is a member of the Finance and Leasing Association (FLA). The FLA has been 
publishing its own Lending Codes since, at least, as far back as 2006. Indeed, the 2006 
code had a section entitled 5 Credit assessment and it said: 
As responsible lenders, under this Code (section 1C.1) we must make sure that all loan 
applications (including pre-approved loans and credit-card cheques) go through a sound and 
proper credit assessment. This assessment may look at a combination of: 
your credit commitments; 
your ability to repay your loan; 
how you have handled your financial affairs in the past; 
information from credit reference agencies; 
with your permission, information from other people, for example, employers, 
other lenders and landlords; 
information you have supplied, including proof of your identity and why you are 
applying for the loan; 
the results of credit assessment techniques, for example, credit-scoring; 
your income; 
your age; 
where you live, although this will not be the only thing that affects your application 
and will not outweigh the other factors; and 
any security you have provided (such as your home). 
We may also consider factors which may show a high risk of experiencing financial difficulty 
which include:
 
having four or more credit commitments; 
spending more than 25% of your gross income (before deductions) on consumer 
credit; and 
spending more than 50% of your gross income on consumer credit and 
mortgages. 
A credit-scoring system generally takes account of information you have given us, any 
information we may hold about you, and information from credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
The credit-scoring system gives points for each piece of relevant information and adds these 
up to produce a score. If we use this system, we will tell you. The FLA leaflet Your credit 
decision explained explains how credit scoring works. You can get copies from us or FLA.
The equivalent section of the 2017 version of the Lending Code, which was in force in at the 
time Shawbrook lent to Mr N is entitled 1D Lending you money and it says:
Applications 
1D.1 Whenever you apply to us for a loan: 
we will make our own assessment of your ability to repay it, so that we do not 
lend you more than what we think you can afford; we will give you enough information to allow you to make informed decisions 
about the loan offered to you; 
if we refuse your application, we will tell you the main reason why, if you ask us. 
You will have a right to ask us to review our decision and we will tell you whom to 
contact if you want us to do this; and 
if our decision to refuse your application was influenced by information obtained 
from a credit reference agency (CRA) search, we will tell you how to contact the 
CRA in question so that you can get a copy of the information which it has about 
you. 
Assessing your ability to repay 
1D.2 When we assess your ability to repay, we may look at a combination of: 
the type of loan and the amount of credit requested; 
your income; 
your existing credit commitments and financial situation; 
how you have handled your financial affairs in the past; 
with your permission, information from other people, for example employers, 
other lenders and landlords; 
your personal circumstances and any likely future changes which you have told 
us about; 
information you have supplied, including proof of your identity and why you are 
applying for the loan; 
information from credit reference agencies (CRAs); 
the results of credit assessment techniques, for example, credit-scoring: a credit-
scoring system generally takes account of information you have given us, any 
information we may hold about you, and information from CRAs. The system 
gives points for each piece of relevant information and adds these up to produce 
a score. An FLA leaflet Your credit decision explained explains how credit 
scoring works. You can find a link to the leaflet in Section 4 of this Code. 
your age; 
where you live, although this will not be the only thing that affects your application 
and will not outweigh the other factors; and 
any security you have provided (such as your home).
After setting out the regulatory framework in place I then went on to set out how I would be 
determining Mr Ns complaint.
Shawbrook had relied on R (Fisher) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2014] EWHC 4928 
(Admin) (Fisher) in support of its argument that the Financial Ombudsman Service wasnt 
and isnt an inquisitorial tribunal. However, I explained that in Fisher the judge was 
considering whether the Ombudsman was required to seek independent legal advice when 
determining a case. It wasnt held by the Court that the Financial Ombudsman Service is a 
tribunal required to decide a complaint under the adversarial system. This is especially as 
this judgement referred to paragraph 26 of Irwin Js judgement in R (on the application of 
Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 2142 (Admin) which stated:
These two passages, the rest of the judgments in the Heather Moor case and the other 
authorities which have been cited, are all consistent and they emphasise, in my judgment, 
the following really rather straightforward points. The ombudsman is dealing with 
complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is inquisitorial not adversarial [my 
emphasis].  There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can operate. He can 
depart from the common law if justified, but must explain the extent to which the reasons for any such departure. Next, he can import his knowledge of good industry practice at the time, 
that being stipulated in the rules and emphasised by the judgment of Stanley Burnton LJ in 
the Heather Moor case. Next, he must be fair and reasonable in his approach to the case 
and his conclusions. Next, he cannot be perverse or merely subjective, and will be 
susceptible to judicial review if he is, both as to the manner in which the decision is reached 
and as to the outcome.
So I wasnt persuaded by Shawbrooks arguments on my jurisdiction to determine Mr Ns 
complaint. And I kept in mind my inquisitorial remit when determining Mr Ns complaint.  
Bearing in mind all of the circumstances and taking into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice and law, I thought that there were two overarching 
questions I needed to consider in order to decide what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint. These questions were:
Did Shawbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr N would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr N wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Shawbrook act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I started by considering the first of those overarching questions.
Did Shawbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr N 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
I explained that the rules and regulations in place when Shawbrook lent to Mr N required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
the credit he was being advanced in a sustainable manner. I pointed out that this 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Shawbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Shawbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I then explained that there could also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited 
to) any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
I then went on to think about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Shawbrooks checks before it agreed to Mr Ns loan
Shawbrook said that it assessed Mr Ns creditworthiness using assessment tools which were 
industry standard at the time. As I understood it, the checks it carried out showed:
Mr N had a gross annual income of £50,000.00. 
Mr Ns debt to income ratio was 87% compared to the maximum 130%. 
the possibility of Mr N being unable to make his repayments as they fell due and 
in a sustainable manner without incurring further financial difficulties or 
experiencing adverse consequences was only 4%; 
Mr N was the owner occupier of a home with substantial equity and there was no 
evidence of any late payments.
Were Shawbrooks checks reasonable and proportionate?
Id previously explained that the rules and guidance in place at the time provided guidance 
on the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggested that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly related to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
Shawbrook said that the lending wasnt significant and it repeatedly referred to its 
assessment being based on Mr Ns gross annual income. However, I explained that Mr N 
was being lent approaching £24,000.00. And while Mr N had a gross annual income of 
£50,000.00, what he took home after deductions was significantly less than that and the 
amount advanced was more than half Mr Ns nett annual income. So I didnt agree that the 
amount being advanced wasnt significant even though some of what Mr N was borrowing 
was being used to settle an outstanding loan balance with Shawbrook. 
I thought that it was also worth noting that by settling Mr Ns previous loan this way 
Shawbrook was recapitalising the balance and restructuring it over 15 years. This was even 
though he was reaching the point where more of his monthly payment was going towards 
the capital owed, as the loan had less than 14 years left on the original term, and he would now once again be in a position where the amortisation schedule meant more of his monthly 
payment would be going towards paying interest. 
I also thought that Shawbrook was somewhat overstating matters when it said that the 
amount advanced was well within the industry standard maximum of £25,000.00 for 
unsecured lending. Indeed I thought that it was more accurate to describe the amount lent 
as approaching the maximum rather than well within it. 
Furthermore, the amount of interest that Mr N would have had to pay if the loan ran to term 
was over £25,000.00. All of this meant that the total amount to be repaid was more than       
Mr Ns annual take home salary and he was being asked to commit to repayments over a 
15-year term. I had also seen Shawbrooks reference to the fact that Mr Ns monthly debt 
commitments going forward would only by £1,825.48. But this was pretty much 60% of his 
monthly take home pay. And Shawbrook would also have been aware that he had the 
associated costs of the management fees for the property to pay too. 
I did accept that Shawbrook may have been prepared to accept the credit risk of this 
transaction. But I wasnt looking at whether the credit risk it accepted was reasonable. What 
I was considering in this case was whether Shawbrook did enough such that it was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr N would be able to affordably and sustainably make 
the repayments to this agreement as and when they fell due. And it seemed to me that 
Shawbrooks checks (especially the reliance upon previous repayment data) were focused 
more on whether Mr N had met his commitments in the past, rather than the amount of 
disposable income he had to make his payments to this loan going forward. 
Shawbrooks conflation of these matters suggests to me that it considered creditworthiness 
and affordability to be one and the same. But while I understood why Mr N having met his 
credit repayments in the past might have provided Shawbrook with increased confidence 
that it would also receive the payments to this loan, I didnt think that it automatically followed 
that these payments were affordable. 
Indeed, it was not immediately clear to me why a borrower who previously managed lower 
repayments would then automatically be deemed, without any additional understanding 
about other non-credit related expenditure, to be able to make increased payments on 
further lending. It seemed to me that this logic would likely lead to continually increased 
lending, unless or until problems arose   
In any event, I also thought it was pertinent to remember that this application was initially 
submitted as an application with Mr N and Mrs N as joint borrowers. However, the joint 
application was declined because Mrs N had a credit card utilisation rate of 158% and this 
was considered outside of Shawbrooks criteria to lend. As a result of this, Shawbrook chose 
to remove Mrs N from the application, even though she remained on the FPOC membership, 
and the loan application was resubmitted and then reassessed solely in Mr Ns name. 
From what I could see, the fact that Mr N had maintained the payments on the 2016 loan 
agreement together with the rest of the information already obtained and the size of the loan 
being within the mandate of the underwriting team led to Shawbrook determining that the 
application could proceed without any further referrals or assessments.
I considered what Shawbrook had said. But it seemed to me that it simply removed Mrs N 
from the initial application and proceeded on the basis of the same information that it had 
before. So it in effect rewound matters and almost treated the application as if Mrs N had 
never been part of it in the first place. At that point, I thought that it would be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for significant verification, was broadly speaking 
more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to 
be repaid was relatively small, the consumers financial situation was stable and they would 
be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here  where the information provided raised some quite 
significant questions - in this case Mrs Ns indebtedness such that Shawbrook refused to 
accept her as part of a joint application  and where a customer was being expected to 
maintain a higher monthly payment for an extended period of time, I thought that it was far 
more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a 
more significant degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
In these circumstances, I didnt think that the additional steps Shawbrook says it took went 
far enough. I didnt think the fact that Mr N had maintained the payments on the previous 
agreements was new information, as Shawbrook would have considered Mr Ns previous 
history of credit repayments as part of the initial joint application. 
Furthermore, while the debts removed from the new sole application were in Mrs Ns name 
and therefore were, at least, from a legal standpoint her responsibility, this new loan was 
being provided to facilitate the purchase of a joint FPOC membership. So it was clearly a 
joint commitment coming from the household budget  that was precisely the reason why a 
joint application was made in the first place. I didnt think that it was fair and reasonable or 
proportionate to remove and then ignore, what Shawbrook described as Mrs Ns over-
indebtedness, when the payments to these debts would nevertheless coming out of the 
same household funds.   
I couldnt see how Shawbrook could reasonably have concluded that Mr N would be able to 
make his repayments on time, without difficulty, in circumstances where this loan was being 
used to finance a joint purchase, without first getting some kind of understanding as to the 
effect of Mrs Ns indebtedness on the household expenditure and finances. 
I had seen Shawbrooks reference to Mr N being a joint homeowner with substantial equity. 
But I failed to see the relevance of this because, at this time, CONC defined lending as being 
sustainable when the repayments could be made by the borrower without undue difficulties. 
In particular, this meant that the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow to meet the repayments; 
and out of income or savings and without having to realise assets or security. So Shawbrook 
shouldnt have been considering the possibility of Mr N releasing equity from his home to 
make his payments, or repay this loan, as part of its affordability assessment.
Taking all of this into account, I thought that Shawbrook needed to get a better 
understanding of Mr Ns financial position, including his non-credit related expenditure, in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he 
was committing to. This was especially as its refusal of the initial application based on 
information on Mrs Ns credit file  on its own and irrespective of anything else - 
demonstrated that there was a realistic possibility Mr Ns household finances meant he 
wasnt in a position to take on this additional commitment. 
So as well as asking Mr N about the details of his income and expenditure, I thought that 
Shawbrook needed to take steps to verify what it was being told by Mr N. It could have done 
this by asking for information such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof of       
Mr Ns income. But what it needed to do was get an understanding of Mr Ns household 
expenditure given what it knew about Mrs N. I had also seen what Shawbrook had said about obtaining such information and in particular 
that it wasnt industry practice to obtain bank statements from a customer or a list of detailed 
income and expenditure. But while I understood its position, I explained that there wasnt 
anything within CONC which referred to this being a relevant factor when determining the 
extent and scope of any affordability assessment and what was likely to be proportionate. 
Equally I pointed out that as the rules, regulations and good industry practice required 
checks to be proportionate to the circumstances, I didnt see how a one size fits all 
approach, notwithstanding the use of what Shawbrook described as an industry standard 
product, would automatically comply with this requirement every time, without any adaptation 
to the circumstances.   
I went on to make it clear that it wasnt my finding that a lender would always need to carry 
out an affordability assessment in relation to a prospective applicants spouse or partner as 
part of an application for credit. But given that any application was required to be 
proportionate to the circumstances, where a lender became aware of factors which may 
impact on a prospective borrowers ability to make payments (such as what Shawbrook 
learned about Mrs N here), I did think that it was fair and reasonable to expect the lender to 
apply a level of curiosity and take further steps to ascertain that the monthly payments were 
affordable. This is especially where the lender knew the funds from the loan would be used 
to facilitate a joint purchase.
As it appeared as though Shawbrook didnt do anything further other than remove Mrs Ns 
circumstances from the equation and resubmit the application in M Ns sole name, I 
explained that it was my intention to find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before providing this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Shawbrook that Mr N would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I needed to decide whether it was more 
likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Shawbrook that Mr N would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr N had provided us with evidence of his (and his households) financial circumstances at 
the time he applied for this loan. I accepted that different checks might show different things. 
And just because something showed up in the information Mr N had provided, it didnt mean 
it wouldve shown up in any checks Shawbrook mightve carried out. But in the absence of 
anything else from Shawbrook showing what this information would have shown, I thought 
that it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as 
an indication of what Mr Ns financial circumstances were likely to have been like at the time.
I also made it clear that I wasnt considering the bank statements Mr and Mrs N had 
provided because I thought that Shawbrook was required to obtain these before lending to 
Mr N. I was considering the bank statements Mr and Mrs N had provided because I needed 
to recreate what a reasonable and proportionate check would more likely than not have 
looked like, a number of years after the loan was provided and bank statements had most, if 
not all, of the information I required to do this.
I then started my consideration of the information by setting out that Shawbrook was 
required to establish whether Mr N could sustainably make his loan repayments over the 
term  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. I did acknowledge that the loan payments being affordable on this basis 
might have been an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. 
I carefully considered the information Mr N had provided in light of all of this. 
There had been some debate and a significant amount of back and forth between 
Shawbrook, Mr and Mrs N and our investigator about the precise circumstances of Mr Ns 
household finances at the time that he entered into the agreement in May 2017. Our 
investigator concluded that Mr N was covering the vast majority of the household 
expenditure because Mrs N wasnt working. Shawbrook had made extensive submissions on 
why it thought that Mrs N was working and why it believed that she was still running her 
business even now. I considered what Shawbrook had said and explained that I had 
managed to obtain further information and supporting evidence regarding Mrs Ns financial 
circumstances.
I thought that the first thing for me to state was that Shawbrooks position in relation to      
Mrs Ns income wasnt entirely clear. This might be because of the number of different 
submissions it had made through the course of the complaint. Nevertheless, it had on the 
one hand said that Mrs Ns income and employment played and should continue to play, no 
part in its assessment of Mr Ns application as it wasnt considered at the time. On the other 
hand, it has also argued that Mrs N was working and that she was contributing to the 
household expenditure.
In any event, having reviewed the further information provided, I was satisfied that Mrs N 
was working on a temporary basis and was receiving around £900 to £1,000.00 in the period 
leading up to this application. Although this appeared to have ceased around the time the 
loan was provided. However, while Mrs N had been working and was transferring some 
funds to the account the household expenditure was going from in the lead up to this 
application, I did think it was important to keep in mind the reason why Shawbrook declined 
the initial application in joint names. 
Shawbrook had confirmed that the joint application was declined because Mrs N was over-
indebted on her credit cards. The bank statements she had provided for her sole account 
also showed that she was significantly overdrawn at the time of this application, had 
increased her overdraft limit to £3,900.00 and even then she was struggling to stay within 
this and was incurring unarranged or unauthorised overdraft charges. 
I appreciated that Shawbrook entered into this agreement solely with Mr N. But I didnt think 
that this meant that Mrs Ns circumstances no longer mattered. I said this because 
Shawbrook was aware of Mrs Ns indebtedness and it had said this was the reason it 
declined the joint application. I couldnt see how Shawbrook could fairly and reasonably 
argue that removing Mrs N from the loan application resulted in it being able to disregard 
what it already knew about her circumstances. In my view, Shawbrook couldnt unsee what it 
had already seen especially as this loan was essentially provided to facilitate what it knew to 
be a joint purchase. 
So while I accepted that Mrs N did have an income and in theory may have been 
contributing to the household expenditure, I was satisfied that the connected way in which 
Mr and Mrs N were running their finances, together with Mrs Ns indebtedness and                  
Mr and Mrs Ns household expenditure meant that the repayments for this agreement were 
more likely than not unaffordable for Mr N. It looks like Mr and Mrs N were meeting their credit commitments and household 
expenditure jointly, in the way that many families do. And when all of this was taken into 
account, including the likelihood that Mr N had to flex-up his proportion of the monthly 
household expenditure, he didnt have sufficient monthly disposable income to be able to 
sustainably make the monthly repayments required on this agreement.
Bearing all of this in mind and most importantly what Shawbrook already knew about                    
Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr N would not have been able to make 
the repayments to this agreement without suffering undue financial difficulty or having to 
borrow further. And, in these circumstances, I set out my intention to find that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Shawbrook to the fact that 
Mr N would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan. 
Did Shawbrook act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr N in some other way?
I carefully thought about everything provided. I had seen that Mr N had said that he was 
pressured into taking out this timeshare by Shawbrooks agent for the purposes of this 
transaction. In particular, hed said that he was taken to a show apartment in an attempt to 
impress him with the standard of accommodation. And the representative was intent on him 
signing up without going away to think about it.
I thought about what Mr N had said. But in truth, what hed described seemed more akin to 
sales tactics encouraging him to upgrade. And it wasnt strong enough for me to be able to 
reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs N had no choice other than to sign up for the upgraded 
membership  especially as they agreed to be booked in for a further presentation after 
saying that theyd been made to feel that way during a presentation the previous year.
Bearing in mind of all of this, I was not persuaded that Mr N (as well as Mrs N) was unfairly 
pressured into signing up for the FPOC membership in circumstances where he clearly did 
not wish to do so.  
So overall I found that Shawbrook didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr N in some 
other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, earlier in my 
provisional decision, I intended to issue a final decision which found that:
Shawbrook didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr N to 
satisfy itself that he was able to repay his loan; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown that   
Mr N was unable to sustainably make the repayments for this loan;
Shawbrook didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr N in some other way.
The above findings left me intending to conclude that Shawbrook unfairly and unreasonably 
provided Mr N with this loan.Did Mr N lose out as a result of Shawbrook unfairly and unreasonably providing him with this 
loan?
Shawbrook had argued that it wasnt its decision to lend to Mr N which caused Mr and Mrs N 
to purchase the FPOC membership, but rather it was Mr and Mrs Ns desire to purchase the 
membership which led to Mr N approaching Shawbrook for a loan in the first place. And in 
these circumstances, it was neither fair and reasonable nor was it rational to conclude that        
Mr and Mrs N would not have purchased the FPOC had Mr N not been provided with the 
funds from the 2017 loan. 
I understood and appreciated the argument Shawbrook had advanced. But I explained that 
this was something of a circular argument as it overlooked the fact that the loan it entered 
into with Mr N and the FPOC membership CLC sold to Mr and Mrs N were inextricably 
linked. Indeed, given I had found that Mr N couldnt afford the monthly payments to the 
agreement, I think it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs N had the funds to purchase the FPOC 
membership (or pay the additional sum required just to cover the upgrade) without a loan to 
facilitate the purchase. So in the first instance I was satisfied that Mr N wasnt in a position to 
purchase the FPOC membership without being lent the funds to do so.
Shawbrook had also argued that as Mr and Mrs N wanted the FPOC membership, they 
would have approached another lender to finance their purchase and any conclusion on    
Mr Ns loss had to take account of the High Courts approach in Kerrigan & Others v Elevate 
Credit International Limited (t/a Sunny) (in administration) [2020] EWHC 2169 (Comm) 
(Kerrigan).
In Kerrigan the High Court held that where a claimant alleges breach of statutory duty  
which is what a claim alleging a breach of the rules in CONC such as Mr Ns complaint  the 
claimant had to show that on the balance of probabilities the defendants breach of the 
relevant rules caused them to suffer loss. The Court agreed that a claimants claim for loss 
could, in certain circumstances, be discounted where another lender would have lent to 
them.
I considered the principles from the Kerrigan judgement as well as the facts and 
circumstances of this case.
In the first instance, I thought it was important to note that it wasnt enough to simply 
establish that another lender would have lent to a claimant or complainant. What needed to 
be established was that another lender would have lent whilst in compliance with the 
relevant rules in CONC. Shawbrook said that Mr N would have obtained finance from 
another lender had it decided against lending to him. And as I understood it CLC had a panel 
of lenders that it was able to arrange finance for Mr N, with in order to facilitate the purchase 
of Mr and Mrs Ns FPOC membership. 
As CLC submitted a joint finance application to Shawbrook in order to facilitate a joint FPOC 
membership, I thought it was fair and reasonable to assume that CLC would have submitted 
an initial application to any of the lenders on its panel on the same basis. And given what 
Shawbrook has said about its industry standard creditworthiness tools, I dont think its 
unreasonable to conclude that any joint application for the finance to facilitate the purchase 
of Mr and Mrs Ns FPOC membership would also have been declined, by the other lenders 
on CLCs panel, for similar reasons. 
So I thought that any other lender on CLCs panel would also more likely than not have 
become aware of Mrs Ns indebtedness and would have been required to take this into 
account in any subsequent application made by Mr N. As this was the case, it seemed to me 
that the other lenders on CLCs panel would more likely than not, also have had to obtain further information and evidence on Mr Ns expenditure, which would have shown the 
monthly payments to be unsustainable for Mr N, in order for its checks to have been 
proportionate. So it was not immediately apparent to me that Mr N would more likely than not 
have been able to obtain finance for Mr and Mrs Ns FPOC membership from another lender 
on CLCs panel. 
Furthermore, I was not necessarily persuaded that the result would have been much 
different even if Mr N had decided to approach another lender independent of CLCs panel. 
Firstly, it was my understanding that the expectation was Mr and Mrs N would sign up for 
FPOC membership at or just after the presentation. So from a practical point of view, it 
wasnt clear to me how Mr and Mrs N would have been able to approach a lender not on 
CLCs panel.  
In any event, and most importantly, I was mindful of the circumstances of the borrowing here 
and that CONC 5.2.4G referred to the potential risks to the customer being determinative of 
the factors a lender should consider when assessing whether it is reasonable to lend. In this 
case, the amount of credit being advanced and the total charge for credit meant that Mr N 
would have to repay more than his annual salary. 
So I thought that any lender would also have had to find out about and kept in mind Mr Ns 
payments for mortgage or rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water and 
other major outgoings as part of its affordability assessment. And this in turn is likely to have 
shown Mr Ns increased expenditure in light of the reduction in the household income and 
meant that Mr N would have found it difficult to obtain a loan from a lender correctly 
complying with CONC. So while I kept in mind the principles from Kerrigan, I didnt think that 
these principles meant that Mr Ns losses should be discounted on the basis that he would 
still have taken out the same loan with another lender, had Shawbrook not lent to him.
That said, while I was not persuaded that Mr N would have been able to obtain a loan for 
£23,573,00 in circumstances where a lender carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks and made a fair lending decision, I nonetheless did still need to consider the extent 
of Mr Ns losses. And in doing so, I was mindful that Mr (and Mrs N) hadnt complained 
about the affordability of the monthly payment on Mr Ns March 2016 agreement with 
Shawbrook. In fact the letter of complaint Mr and Mrs N initially sent to Shawbrook in        
April 2018, which Id included extracts from earlier on in my provisional decision, said that 
the payments on the first loan were affordable at least at the time the loan was provided in 
March 2016. 
So as there didnt appear to be a dispute about the March 2016 loan, it seemed to me that it 
was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N would have retained the original timeshare they 
purchased from CLC, had Mr N not been provided with the funds to purchase the FPOC 
membership they did in May 2017. Accordingly I was satisfied that Mr Ns loss as a result of 
Shawbrooks decision to unfairly lend to him in May 2017 wasnt the entire monthly payment 
of £272.39, but rather the extra £84.12 a month Mr N had to pay from May 2017 onwards. 
And it was only fair and reasonable for my proposed award, which I would set out in the next 
section of this decision, to reflect this.      
Overall and having carefully thought about everything provided and what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I was left intending to issue a final decision 
that found that Mr N did lose out because Shawbrook entered into a loan with unaffordable 
loan payments with him in May 2017. And this meant I intended to find that Shawbrook 
needed to put things right.
      Fair compensation  what I thought that Shawbrook needed to do to put things right for Mr N
I started out this section of my provisional decision by explaining that where I find that a 
business did something wrong, Id usually expect that business  in so far as is reasonably 
practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong hadnt 
taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Shawbrook putting Mr N in the 
position hed now be in if he hadnt been given the funds to purchase the FPOC membership 
for him and Mrs N in May 2017. I kept this in mind and considered what had happened since 
the loan was provided and determined how I thought Shawbrook should put things right.
Mr Ns balance
I explained that in circumstances where a borrower was provided with finance to purchase 
goods or services they couldnt afford to make the payments for, it was usually appropriate 
for the goods to be returned or the service to cease, the agreement to be ended and the 
payments refunded to the borrower. It was then a case of working out what the lender could 
retain for the borrower having had use of the goods or received the service. 
However, in this case, it was my understanding that Mr Ns agreement with Shawbrook was 
terminated sometime in 2019 as a result of Mr N not having made any payments since    
May 2018. And as Mr and Mrs N had already surrendered their FPOC membership to CLC, 
they no longer had to pay any membership fees. So as far as I could see there were no 
agreements to unwind or terminate and it seemed to me that the only matter which remained 
to be determined here was what, if anything, Mr N should have to repay on his defaulted 
loan, given I thought that he shouldnt have been provided with it in the first place.
I started my consideration of what, if anything, Mr N should have to repay Shawbrook on his 
defaulted loan balance by taking account of his loss. Id already explained that as all parties 
accepted that Mr Ns payments for the March 2016 agreement he entered into with 
Shawbrook were affordable, I was satisfied that Mr N would simply have continued with his 
existing membership and loan, had Shawbrook not lent to him in May 2017. 
In these circumstances, I thought that the amount Mr N owed Shawbrook going forward 
needed to reflect what would have happened had the March 2016 agreement remained in 
force. So Shawbrook needed to remove the effect of the extra funds it lent Mr N in May 2017 
and it needed to do this by doing the following.
Firstly, it needed to work out what Mr Ns balance would have been had £188.27 of the 
monthly payment, (the monthly payment for the March 2016 agreement), been used to 
continue making payments to that loan after May 2017. Secondly, while I was satisfied that 
Mr N could afford the monthly payments for the March 2016 agreement at the time he 
entered into it, the change in his family circumstances  i.e. Mrs N ending her permanent 
employment and the effect that this had on the household finances  would, in any event, 
have had impacted his ability to make the repayments going forwards. 
In other words, I thought that the material change in Mr Ns circumstances meant that he 
would more likely than not have had difficulty with his payments and defaulted on the 
agreement he had whether he was paying the original £188.27 due monthly on the first 
agreement, or the £272.39 due monthly as a result of the increased borrowing in May 2017. 
So I thought that Mr N would still have defaulted but he would instead have defaulted on a 
smaller amount. 
As this was the case, I was satisfied that Shawbrook should reduce what Mr N now owes to 
the amount he would have owed had the March 2016 agreement continued up until he 
stopped making payments to his May 2017 agreement and £188.27 of the monthly payment for the second agreement been used to continue making payments to the first one. 
Shawbrook then needed to add interest (at 8% a year simple) to the extra £84.12 Mr N paid 
each month from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement. This total 
amount then needed to be used to further reduce the amount Mr N owes.
Mr Ns credit file
I explained why I thought that Mr N was always going to run into difficulty making the 
payments to his March 2016 agreement because of the reduction in his household income 
and the severe financial struggles Mr and Mrs N had described having as a result. As this 
was the case, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr N would have ended up defaulting 
on a Shawbrook loan, of some description, whether or not additional funds were provided in 
May 2017. 
However, I thought that what is now recorded on Mr Ns credit file should be amended to 
reflect what Mr N will owe after the adjustments I was telling Shawbrook to make to Mr Ns 
outstanding balance.  
Shawbrooks response to my provisional decision
Shawbrook accepted that it didnt carry out fair and proportionate checks in this specific 
case. However it provided some further information in relation to the industry tools that it 
used as this relates to our understanding on affordability assessment tools and how redress 
is calculated.
Mr Ns response to my provisional decision
Mr N also responded to my provisional decision. He agreed with my conclusion that 
Shawbrook unfairly and unreasonably provided him with his loan. 
However, he disagreed with the method I set out for Shawbrook to put things right. On these 
matters, Mr Ns response can be summarised as:
A lender cannot unilaterally reinstate a loan if all parties are not in agreement as this 
is a legal impossibility;
Shawbrooks decision to provide the May 2017 loan directly led to him ceasing to pay 
for the initial timeshare. So he should be placed in the position where he didnt 
purchase a timeshare at all as my proposed method of putting things right will result 
in him suffering a loss as he no longer has use of the initial timeshare.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision.
As Shawbrook has accepted that it didnt carry out fair and proportionate checks in this 
instance, it is unclear to me why it has provided further information about the tools it used. I 
can only assume that it has provided this information in support of its position on other 
cases. However, as it has accepted my findings in relation to the checks that it carried out 
before lending to Mr N in May 2017, I dont think that this information provides anything new 
and it doesnt change my view that Shawbrook shouldnt have lent to Mr N in May 2017.I now turn to Mr Ns comments in response to my provisional decision.
The first thing for me to say is that I did not state that Shawbrook should reinstate Mr Ns first 
agreement in my provisional decision. I agree that as the first agreement was settled in full in 
May 2017 it is not possible, or even appropriate, to reinstate it at this stage. What my 
provisional decision actually instructed Shawbrook to do, is to reduce what Mr N owes on the            
May 2017 loan to the amount that he would have owed had he continued making payments 
on his initial agreement until June 2018.
Mr N says that this doesnt go far enough and that he should instead be placed in the 
position where he didnt purchase a timeshare at all. But placing Mr N in this position would 
ignore the fact that Mr N did purchase an initial timeshare and all parties accept that the first 
timeshare was affordable. Ive already set out that, in his initial letter of complaint, Mr N 
made it clear that the payments to the first agreement were affordable and that it was the 
second agreement, provided at a time when Mrs N was not working, that was the problem.  
The initial timeshare was due to run for 15 years. And Ive not been provided with anything at 
all to suggest that Mr N would have cleared the balance on his initial agreement earlier than 
this had Shawbrook not entered into the May 2017 agreement with him. So Im satisfied that 
Mr N would have been in the position where he would have been required to pay £188.27 a 
month until around March 2031, had Shawbrook not provided the funds for the second loan 
and I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me not to reflect this in my direction 
to Shawbrook.
Mr N says that what I asked Shawbrook to do in my provisional decision will leave him in a 
position where hes losing out because he will still owe an outstanding balance to 
Shawbrook and he no longer has use of the initial timeshare. I accept that this is the position 
Mr N will be left in. However, what needs to happen here is that Shawbrook, in so far as is 
reasonably practicable, needs to place Mr N in the position he would be in now had it not 
lent to him in May 2017. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, while Im satisfied that Mr N was able to afford the 
monthly payments for the March 2016 agreement when Shawbrook provided him with the 
funds, the change in his family circumstances  i.e. Mrs N ending her permanent 
employment and the effect that this had on the household finances  impacted his ability to 
make the repayments going forwards. In other words, Ive accepted that there was a material 
change in Mr Ns circumstances which meant that it was not only unlikely that hed be unable 
to repay the £272.39 due monthly, as a result of the increased borrowing in May 2017, but 
that he would also have been unable to make the original monthly payments of £188.27 due 
on the first agreement by June 2018. 
I think that it would be unfair and also unreasonable in its logic if I were to accept Mr Ns 
submissions, regarding being in a position where his household is now severely struggling 
financially, in relation to my findings and then not reflect this in relation to what Shawbrook 
needs to do to put things right. Directing Shawbrook to write off the entire amount Mr N owes 
here, in the way that he has asked, would not be, as far as reasonably practicable, placing 
him in the position he would be in now had Shawbrook not lent to him in May 2017. Im 
satisfied that making such a direction would place Mr N in a far more advantageous position 
and I dont think that this would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
So while I accept that Mr N is unhappy that he will be left in a position where he still has an 
outstanding debt to Shawbrook, without having further use of a timeshare, I nonetheless 
think that this is the position he would more likely than not be in now, had Shawbrook not 
lent to him, for a second time, in May 2017. As this is the case, while Ive considered the further points Mr N has made in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. And I remain satisfied 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Shawbrook to put things right in the way that Ive set 
out below.
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Having carefully considered everything, I remain satisfied that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ns complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by:
reworking the amount Mr N owes by:
A. working out what Mr Ns balance would have been had the March 2016 loan 
continued running and he paid £188.27 to it from June 2017 until he stopped 
making payments from June 2018;
B. adding interest at 8% simple per year to the extra £84.12 Mr N paid each 
month from May 2017 to May 2018;
C. subtracting B from A.
amending the default on Mr Ns credit file to reflect what he now owes.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Shawbrook to take off tax from this interest. Shawbrook 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
I understand that Shawbrook may have sold the outstanding balance on Mr Ns account to a 
third-party debt purchaser. If it has, it will need to either buy the account back from the third-
party concerned and make the adjustments set out above, pay an amount to the third party 
in order for it to make the necessary reductions, or pay Mr N an amount  such that he can 
settle a portion of his debt with the third-party that corresponds with his loss - to ensure that 
it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 3 November 2022, 
Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman