DRN-1790058
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat Finance, 
has terminated a hire purchase agreement under which a car was supplied to her.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mrs F under a hire purchase agreement with Seat Finance that 
she signed in April 2017. Mrs F was experiencing financial difficulties in 2019 and she 
entered into a debt payment programme. Seat Finance was contacted about that 
arrangement in April 2019 and Mrs F offered to make payments to it over 83 months. That 
wasnt acceptable to Seat Finance so it terminated the agreement. 
Mrs F complained to Seat Finance in July 2019. It said that it hadnt received a response 
from her debt adviser when it rejected her payment offer so her agreement had been 
terminated. Mrs F wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Seat Finance was within its rights to terminate the agreement. 
Mrs F accepted the investigators recommendation but then asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She said that she was going to provide additional information 
and she was granted an extension of time to do so - but she hasnt provided any additional 
information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs F signed the agreement and agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £267.69 
and a final payment of £9,967.50 for the car to be supplied to her;
she experienced some financial difficulties and didnt make all of the payments that 
were due under the agreement so she was sent notices of arrears and default 
notices;
she entered into a debt payment programme and her debt advisor contacted Seat 
Finance and said that Mrs F offered to make payments to it over 83 months;
it didnt accept that offer so replied to Mrs Fs debt adviser and, in July 2019, it sent 
Mrs F a termination notice and said that it would take action to repossess the car;
I understand that Mrs F still has the car but hasnt made all of the payments that have 
become due under the agreement;
I sympathise with Mrs F for the financial difficulties that shes experiencing and for 
the issues that theyve caused her  but she hasnt made all of the payments that 
were due under the agreement and she hasnt complied with the notices of arrears 
and the default notices that Seat Finance sent to her;
a finance provider is required to respond to a customers financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically  but that doesnt mean that its required to accept any 
repayment proposals that are made to it  and I consider that it was reasonable for it 
not to accept Mrs Fs offer to make repayments to it over 83 months;
I also consider that it would have been fair and reasonable at that time for it to have 
concluded that Mrs F couldnt afford to repay the arrears on her account and to make 
the payments under the agreement;
I dont consider that Seat Finance acted incorrectly when it terminated Mrs Fs hire 
purchase agreement  and I consider it to be likely that it will now take action to 
repossess the car (to the extent that its legally entitled to do so); and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Seat Finance to reinstate Mrs Fs agreement or to take any other action in response 
to her complaint.
I suggest that Mrs F contacts Seat Finance to try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement for the amount that she owes to it  its required to respond to her financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically in agreeing any such arrangement.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman