DRN-3553944
The complaint
Mr M has complained to Kession Capital Limited (Kession) about information and advice 
he says he was given by one of its appointed representatives (AR)  Swan Securities & 
Investments Limited (Swan).
What happened
In October 2015 Mr M made a £5,000 investment in an opportunity called Sooner Energy 
which invested in oil in America.  He says he had been contacted by Swan who advised him 
and arranged the investment.
Mr M complained that he was assured by the Swan adviser that the investment was part of a 
long programme which would pay dividend returns that would likely increase in the future 
from around 5% to 12%. However, he says the information and advice he was given was 
wrong as the dividend payments were irregular and much lower than expected  until they 
eventually stopped.
A complaint was made to Kession and Mr M says its responsible because Swan was its AR 
and was operating under its umbrella at the time.
Kession didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.  In summary it said that although Swan was its AR 
at the relevant time, it isnt responsible for the acts complained about because Swan acted 
outside of what it was allowed to do under its agreement with Kession. 
In particular, Kession said Swan was not entitled to approve its own financial promotions and 
had agreed to seek approval from Kession in advance for all financial promotions by 
whatever means prior to use. Furthermore, it never signed off on any financial promotion 
regarding Sooner Energy.
So, whilst Kession acknowledged the investment was marketed and sold by Swan, it says it 
was done outside of the AR agreement and so could not comment on whether advice was 
given, or the investment was mis-sold.
Mr M disagreed with Kession and referred his complaint to this Service.  He says Kession 
had a duty of care to monitor what Swan was doing, and also says before making the 
investment he had contacted the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to put his mind at rest 
that he was dealing with a regulated business.
I issued a provisional decision in early April 2022.  In that decision I concluded that Kession 
was responsible for Mr Ms complaint and that it should compensate him. Ive included a 
large extract of my provisional decision below.
Jurisdiction
I cannot decide jurisdiction based upon what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. That is the basis on which the merits of complaint will be 
determined if we have jurisdiction to consider it.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can deal with certain complaints against Kession 
as a regulated firm/authorised person. That may include complaints about the acts or 
omissions of its ARs. That is why this complaint is made against Kession rather than 
Swan.
We are governed by the DISP rules which are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. They contain the factors that need to be considered 
when looking at the compulsory jurisdiction of this Service.
We can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying out 
one or more of the listed activities, (including regulated activities), or any ancillary 
activities carried on by the firm in connection with those activities (DISP 2.3.1R).
Complaints about acts or omissions by a firm include complaints about acts or 
omissions in respect of the activities for which the firm is responsible (including the 
business of any AR for which the firm has accepted responsibility), (DISP 2.3.3G).
I think its useful for me to explain what the terms appointed representative (AR) and 
Principal mean. The Financial Services and Markets Act 2001 (FSMA), states that 
the general position is that if a person carries on a regulated activity and they are not 
an authorised person  they will be committing a breach of law under s.19 and s.23 
FSMA). But there is an exemption to this for an AR.
An AR is essentially a firm or person who conducts regulated activities but does so 
under the umbrella of a firm the FCA directly authorises (the Principal). The AR itself 
doesnt need to have authorisation from the FCA to conduct regulated activities. The 
exemption is set out in s.39 FSMA:
39. Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which 
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, 
and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that 
business his principal has accepted responsibility in writing
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which the principal has 
accepted responsibility.

(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same 
extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the 
representative in carrying on the business for which he had accepted 
responsibility. (my emphasis).
So, under s.39 the principal is required to accept responsibility for the business being 
conducted by the AR. And the case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear the words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept 
responsibility for only part of the business conducted by an appointed 
representative.
Kessions position:
Kession has made a number of points in response to the complaint and in relation to
jurisdiction. In short it says it did not, and does not, accept responsibility for the acts 
about which Mr M complains and the ombudsman service does not have jurisdiction to 
look at a complaint against it.
So, I think there are three important points to consider when looking at our jurisdiction 
to consider this complaint against Kession:
(a)what are the acts about which Mr M has complained?
(b)were those acts done in the carrying on of a regulated activity or an ancillary 
activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity (DISP 2.3.1)?
(c)were they acts for which Kession accepted responsibility (s.39(3) FSMA)?
What are the acts about which Mr M has complained?
In order to decide whether we can or cannot consider a complaint, its necessary to 
decide what Mr Ms complaint is.
Mr M says that he was given incorrect information and unsuitable advice to make an 
investment in Sooner Energy.  Kession states it cannot comment on whether advice 
was given but has acknowledged Swan marketed and sold the investment.
The difference between providing information and giving advice can be a fine line. I 
cant be sure whether or not Swan gave advice to Mr M, but the available evidence 
does make it clear that Swan promoted the investment in Sooner Energy.
So, whilst Mr M says his complaint is about the information and advice he was given 
by Swan, its clearly about Swans involvement in the transaction overall.  So, in my 
view the acts which Mr Ms complaint relates to, are the promotion and arrangement of 
the investment and Sooner Energy.
Were those acts done in the carrying on of a regulated activity or an ancillary 
activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity (DISP 2.3.1)?
As Ive said above, we only have jurisdiction to look at regulated activities (DISP 
2.3.1). 
Section 22 FSMA defines "regulated activities" as follows:
"(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) "Investment" includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article 4 provides:
"4.  Specified activities: general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds of activity for the purposes of 
section 22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those kinds, which 
is carried on by way of business and relates to an investment of a kind specified 
by any provision of Part III and applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for 
the purposes of the Act)."
Arranging deals in investments is a specified activity (Article 25). And so is agreeing 
to advise on investments or arrange deals in investments (Article 64).
Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form and 
sending it off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the 
scope of Article 25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about 
the transaction. I am satisfied the arranging Swan carried out here falls within the 
scope of Article 25(1). Given the close connection, I am also satisfied the promotions 
were ancillary to the arranging.
So, Im satisfied the acts complained about were done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity.
Were they acts for which Kession accepted responsibility?
Mr M has directed his complaint to Kession, and the AR agreement was in place at the 
relevant time, so Im satisfied Swan was an AR of Kession.  
Whether Kession is responsible for the specific acts complained about is determined 
by considering the terms of the contract between it and Swan.  Some terms of an AR 
agreement work to exclude liability for a Principal, and some do not. 
Ive carefully considered the entirety of the AR agreement and Im satisfied that the 
acts which Mr Ms complaint relate to are ones which Kession accepted responsibility 
for.
Its not the case that a principal is not responsible for business in any instance where 
any term in an appointed representative agreement is not adhered to. The High Court 
judgment in the case of Anderson v Sense Network (2018) makes it clear section 39 
FSMA allows a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the generic 
business of a prescribed description. In other words, Kession was entitled to appoint 
Swan as a representative and limit the scope of the regulated activities it could carry 
out and that it would be responsible for. 
But the Court of Appeal judgment in the same case set out that only restrictions on 
what generic business could be conducted would limit the principals responsibility. In 
contrast, restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont limit a principals 
responsibility. In other words, a principal (Kession) cant avoid responsibility for 
activities it authorised an AR (Swan) to carry out just because those activities werent 
carried out in the way it wanted them to be.Having considered the AR agreement between Kession and Swan, I think some of the 
terms relate to how Swan was to carry out the business which Kession accepted 
responsibility for, rather that what business Swan could carry out.
At 6.1 the contract says: 
The Appointor hereby accepts responsibility for all the AR's and the Individuals 
activities in carrying on the Relevant Business under this Agreement.
Relevant Business is defined as:
Regulated activities which the AR is permitted to carry out under this Agreement which 
are subject to the limitations of the Appointors part IV permission as detailed in 
Schedule 5. For the avoidance of doubt, the AR is not permitted to carry out any 
investment management activities. The AR is permitted to market and promote its 
services, arrange business and give advice. The AR will conduct business with 
professional clients, elective professional clients and eligible counterparties. In 
circumstances where clients do not satisfy the criteria to opt-up to elective professional 
status, the AR may treat them as retail clients and conduct business with them as such 
insofar as it is restricted to promoting and arranging only. The AR is not permitted to 
give advice to retail clients. When conducting with retail clients the AR will at all times 
adhere to the strict guidelines outlined in Schedule 6. The Appointor acknowledges 
that the AR will conduct capital raising and arranging activities via the issuance of 
corporate bonds for power projects. There is no pooling of capital and no CIS.
This accepts the AR will conduct capital raising and arranging activities via the 
issuance of corporate bonds for power projects and notably says this without 
qualification or restriction.  So, Kessions part IV permission (as detailed in Schedule 5) 
includes arranging of investments of the type made by Mr M.  Accordingly, under 6.1 
the starting point is that Kession accepts responsibility for it. 
At 1.3 the agreement gives Kession the right to impose restrictions as follows: 
In accordance with section 39 of FSMA and the FCA Handbook, the Appointor may 
impose restrictions:
a) on the AR preventing the AR from procuring or attempting to procure persons to 
enter into investment agreements;
b) as to the types of investment and investment activity in relation to which the AR may 
act, even if those activities and/or investments form part of the Relevant Business
So, its clear that the agreement did allow Kession to put restrictions in place which 
may have related to what Swan could do (rather than just how it could do it).  Having 
considered what restrictions in the agreement are relevant in this complaint, Ive seen 
nothing to show Kession put any restrictions on arranging investments.
2.2 of the agreement states:
The AR shall not make any financial promotion (including but not limited to unsolicited 
real-time financial promotions) unless such promotion relates to Relevant Business 
and is either approved in advance by the Appointor or is made only within 
circumstances where an exemption applies under the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 as amended from time to time.And 2.3 of the agreement states:
The AR acknowledges that it is not entitled to approve financial promotions for the 
purposes of section 21 of FSMA and undertakes that it shall not do so, or purport to do 
so.
These restrictions only relate to promotion and do not place any restrictions on 
arranging. 2.2 is not a restriction on the Relevant Business, is it, as it refers only to 
financial promotion which isnt, in itself, a regulated activity. It doesnt put any 
restrictions on arranging or advising. 
Although 2.3 relates to an activity which requires regulatory authorisation, it also does 
nothing to restrict advising or arranging. 
So even if promotion in itself wasnt permitted and the AR wasnt permitted to approve 
itself, the arranging and advice clearly fall within the Relevant Business and the 
promotion activities are connected to them. Kession accepted responsibility for the 
arranging of investments, and in my view the promotion of investment (even if carried 
out in breach of the AR agreement) which was inherently bound up with the 
arrangement  and so is something Kession is also responsible for.  This approach 
was set out by the courts in Martin & Anor. v Britannia Life Ltd [1999] and 
Tenetconnect Services Ltd, R (on the application of) v Financial Services Ltd & Anor 
[2018].
Given that Im satisfied Kession accepted responsibility of the acts complained about, I 
have gone on to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint.
What is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint
Mr M is unhappy as he says he was assured by Swan that the investment would 
generate dividend payments starting at around 5% and rising to 12% - but that level of 
return was never achieved and ultimately the funds Mr M invested have been lost.  So 
essentially Mr M has said Swan made representations that were incorrect and 
misleading.
COBS 4.2 requires a firm to make sure that any financial promotion is fair, clear and 
not misleading.  In this case I cant reasonably say that it was.
The promotion of the Sooner Energy investment to retail clients such as Mr M was 
subject to restrictions and Swan, acting on behalf of Kession, had to meet regulatory 
obligations which included treating customers fairly and acting in their best interests.
Those regulatory obligations set out in the FCAs Principles for Businesses (of which I 
think Principle 6 Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interest of 
its customers and treat them fairly is the most relevant here) and in COBS 2.1.1R (A 
firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client.).
The rules on financial promotions at the time (set out in COBS 4) said promotion of
investment of the type made by Mr M to retail clients was restricted to investors which 
fell within certain categories such as high net worth, sophisticated and restricted. 
These categories were defined and a process for placing an investor into them set out.I have not seen sufficient evidence to show Swan took the necessary steps to check if 
Mr M fell into one of the categories (and it follows it also did not take the necessary 
steps for putting him into a category). And from the information I have about Mr M I 
also think it unlikely he could have been put into one of these categories, had the 
necessary steps been taken. So had Swan acted fairly and reasonably to meet the 
relevant rules, it would have been aware Mr M was not eligible to receive promotion for 
the investment.
The alternative basis on which the investments could have been promoted to Mr M 
was if he were a professional client. However, Ive seen no evidence to show any 
efforts were made by Swan to see if Mr M could be treated as a professional client, or 
to follow the process set out in the rules for this.
I think acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, Swan should not 
have proceeded to make the promotion and arrange the investments in such 
circumstances. Were it not for the actions and misrepresentations of Swan, I think its 
unlikely he would have made the investment in Sooner Energy at all. So, I think its fair 
to ask Kession to compensate Mr M for the loss he has suffered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted my provisional decision and had nothing material to add.
Kession disagreed with my findings.  In summary, it responded saying it should not be held 
responsible for a product that wasnt approved by it.  This was accompanied by evidence 
submitted from a similar complaint involving Swan and the same investments  which it 
suggests demonstrates Swan was acting in a way that deliberately concealed its activities.
Kession also quoted a section of its AR agreement with Swan which it says makes it clear 
that Swan (as an AR) had no ability to market a product that had not received prior approval:
1.5 This Agreement shall terminate automatically in the event of:

e) the AR promoting any product or service, that falls within the jurisdiction of the 
FCA rules, that has not been approved by the Appointer prior to its release;
f) the AR failing to put in place adequate professional indemnity insurance prior 
to carrying out any regulated business.
So, in reaching a final decision on Mr Ms complaint, Ive reviewed matters again including 
the additional points made by Kession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I remain of the same overall conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ive first reviewed the further points Kession has raised in relation to jurisdiction.  I dont have 
the discretion to decide what is fair and reasonable in relation to this point  but must apply 
the rules as they apply. I explained my thoughts on whether Kession is responsible for what Mr M complains about in my provisional decision and set that out above  so wont repeat 
everything again here.
In summary, even if the promotion of an investment in itself wasnt permitted by Kession and 
the AR wasnt permitted to approve itself, the arranging and advice clearly fall within the 
Relevant Business and the promotion activities are connected to them. Kession accepted 
responsibility for the arranging of investments, and in my view the promotion of investment 
(even if carried out in breach of the AR agreement) which was inherently bound up with the 
arrangement  and so is something Kession is also responsible for.
Ive reviewed the clause specifically referred to by Kession in response to my provisional 
decision  but Im not persuaded that changes the position.  I acknowledge that it does 
demonstrate an intent on the part of Kession to not accept responsibility for business without 
specifically approving its promotion. But as Ive already explained  the agreement with 
Swan did accept responsibility for arranging and advice  which is what makes Kession 
responsible.
Also, I note clause 1.5 relates to what would trigger the automatic termination of the 
agreement between Swan and Kession. So, the context doesnt relate to whether Kession 
accepted responsibility for the business, but rather what would happen if Swan proceeded to 
promote investments without prior approval.  Kession has suggested that Swan was 
promoting and arranging business for which it wasnt seeking approval for some time  but 
the agreement continued to operate in any event.  I recognise that Kession may say that it 
did not know about the acts of Swan at the time, but nevertheless Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the agreement wasnt in place at the time of Mr Ms business being placed.
Whilst I do understand Kessions frustration, I maintain that for the reasons detailed in my 
provisional decision and set out above, it is responsible for Swans acts in relation to Mr Ms 
complaint.
Having decided that Kession is responsible for Mr Ms complaint I remain of the view that he 
should be compensated for the actions and failures of Swan.  Essentially Swan made 
representations to Mr M which were incorrect and misleading  as the levels of risk and likely 
returns were misrepresented.  
The obligations Swan had when dealing with Mr M were explained in my provisional decision 
and are set out above.  In summary, it had an obligation to comply with Principle 6 of PRIN 
(Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat 
them fairly) and act in Mr Ms best interests under COBS 2.1.1R.  Swan didnt ensure Mr M 
fell into one of the investor categories set out in COBS 4, nor was he treated as a 
professional client.
I think acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, Swan should not have 
proceeded to make the promotion and arrange the investments in such circumstances. Were 
it not for the actions and misrepresentations of Swan, I think its unlikely Mr M would have 
made the investment in Sooner Energy at all. So, I think its fair to ask Kession to 
compensate Mr M for the loss he has suffered.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr M 
as close to the position he would probably now be in had he not been promoted the 
investment in Sooner Energy and had the arrangements not been made.I think Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. But I am satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Kession do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Kession should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Kession should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused by the loss of his savings and the 
uncertainty that has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end  
date)additional  
interest
Sooner  
Energystill 
exists  
(but 
illiquid)FTSE  UK
Private  
Investors  
Income  
Total
Return  
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation  
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business  
being  notified  
of acceptance).
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Kession taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it isnt possible for Kession to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repay to Kession any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in thecalculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if
Kession totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth on his savings and was willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds.  It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a better return.
Although its called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Kession Capital Limited.  
To put things right, I direct it to pay to Mr M the fair compensation set out above. Kession 
should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman