DRN-2855464
The complaint
Mr D and Mr M complain that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited refused to pay their claim 
on their motor insurance policy. Mr M is a named driver on Mr Ds policy.
 
What happened
Mr D was driving home from work when he was involved in a collision. Skyfire declined his 
claim as it said his policy didnt cover him for commuting. It said Mr D was responsible for its 
outlay for the other drivers claim and it wouldnt pay for Mr Ds repairs. Mr D paid to add 
commuting to the policy. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
thought the relevant law in this case was The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
He thought that when Mr D had taken out the policy hed been asked a question about how 
he intended to use the car. And he thought Mr D had answered the question incorrectly as 
he clearly intended to use it for commuting. 
The investigator thought this was a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. He believed it was careless. He said Skyfire should consider Mr Ds 
claim. And, if it decided to settle it, it should do so proportionately. 
Skyfire didnt agree with the investigator that CIDRA applied and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This is because, as our investigator explained, Mr D 
was asked a question about how the car was used rather than what level of cover he wanted 
to include on his policy. So Im satisfied that this question wasnt about choice. Instead it was 
about disclosing material facts. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
When he notified Skyfire of the claim, Mr D was open that he used the car regularly for his 
daily commute. Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application 
though an online comparison site and I agree he failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because he was asked What do you use the car for? And he selected social, 
domestic and pleasure, but not commuting. I can see that the comparison site provided 
clear definitions of the three options Mr D had to choose between to answer the question. 
I think this was a clear question asked by Skyfire through the comparison site Mr D used. 
And I think Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via the comparison site that he intended to use the car for social, 
domestic and pleasure use only. 
Skyfire has provided evidence which shows that if Mr D had not made this misrepresentation 
it would have charged him a higher premium. 
This means I am satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I also think Mr Ds 
misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because, from his testimony 
and call to Skyfire, I think Mr D intended to use the car for commuting and believed he had 
cover for this. 
As Ive said above, because the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and Skyfire 
would have charged a higher premium if Mr D hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will 
have to consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Skyfire to rely on it to settle Mr Ds claim proportionately, if it accepts it, produces 
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to consider Mr Ds claim and, if it accepts it, to 
settle it proportionate to the amount of premium Mr D should have paid to include commuting 
compared with what he did pay.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds and Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman