DRN-2265767
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has voided his home insurance policy and 
declined to pay his claim for fire damage to his home. 
What happened
In January 2019 there was a fire at a tenanted property Mr Y owned. Mr Y had lived at the 
property himself until about 2014 when he moved out. Mr Y made a claim for the damage 
under the standard home insurance policy he had for the property. Fairmead appointed loss 
adjusters to validate and help manage the claim and a visit was carried out about a week 
later.
 
During the meeting, the loss adjuster pointed out to Mr Y that the policy he had was a 
standard householder policy rather than one for landlords. Mr Y was told he shouldnt start 
any works until Fairmead confirmed its position. A couple of weeks later Fairmead 
telephoned Mr Y to state that the wrong policy was in place at the time of the fire and that he 
needed to be moved to a landlords policy, which Mr Y agreed to do. Mr Y asked Fairmead 
for a copy of the terms and conditions relevant to the claim and was sent a copy of the 
landlord policy. 
A forensics report was carried out at the property which confirmed that itd been an electrical 
fault that started the fire. Mr Y mentioned to the expert whilst he was in the house that 
evidence of a cannabis plant had been found in the property. The examiner told Mr Y that, if 
there was, it was immaterial to the claim. Subsequent examination of the electricity usage 
showed it wasnt consistent with cannabis cultivation. 
Fairmead told Mr Y in February that liability for the claim had been accepted and steps could 
now be taken to identify a contractor to carry out the repairs. An interim payment was made 
to Mr Y to cover the cost of the structural engineer who was to compile the schedule of 
works. 
At the start of May 2019, Fairmead told Mr Y that the status of his claim had been altered 
from accepted to no decision on liability whilst further enquiries were undertaken into the 
extent of the cannabis cultivation at the property. Mr Y was told not to commission any works 
until Fairmeads position was confirmed. 
At the end of June 2019, the loss adjuster wrote to Mr Y to say itd been instructed to 
conduct further enquiries. In mid-July Mr Y was told that Fairmead was liaising with solicitors 
and forensics. At the end of August Fairmead wrote to Mr Y to say that underwriters had 
voided the policy from inception due a material non-disclosure when the policy had been 
taken out. It said hed said when taking the policy out that the property was occupied by him 
and his family when, in fact, it was already tenanted. 
Mr Y complained to Fairmead. Fairmead looked into his complaint but didnt change its mind. 
Mr Y then instructed solicitors who wrote to Fairmead in December 2019 setting out why     
Mr Y disagreed with its decision to void his policy. They said the decision to avoid cover was 
based on something Fairmead had been aware of from the outset of the claim and certainly 
at the point itd confirmed the claim would be covered. They also said that cover under the 
landlord policy he had subsequently been sold was being voided despite that policy being 
sold to him as the solution to having the wrong policy in place in the first place. They said 
hed not made a misrepresentation in respect of that policy. 
Mr Ys solicitors said that the only occupants of the property since hed owned it had been 
himself and his family, including his father (presumably from 2014 when Mr Y moved out), 
prior to the property being let to a tenant in September 2017, a fact that Fairmead/the loss 
adjuster had been aware of (together with the issue about the wrong policy) since the end of 
January 2019. They said Fairmead knew that the tenant had been in occupation since 
September 2017 from early February 2019.
Fairmead instructed solicitors of its own and responded. Fairmead said that given the tenant 
had moved in in September 2017, the relevant renewal had occurred in March 2018. They 
said a Statement of Fact had been sent to Mr Y at the time which included the question: 
From the policy start date, will the property be occupied by you and your immediate family 
only as your permanent residence?. Fairmead said Mr Y had answered yes to the question 
which, given the property had been tenanted since September 2017, was clearly not true. It 
also referred to a telephone call between it and Mr Y around the time of renewal during 
which Mr Y asked it what would happen if he let the property out which he was thinking 
about doing in the next few months. Fairmead told him during the call that the policy could 
be changed. 
Fairmead also referred to a signed statement given by Mr Y in mid-May 2019 during the 
course of its investigation which said that the property had been tenanted since 2014 and let 
to the current tenant since September 2017. 
Fairmead said it was clear that information provided by Mr Y at renewal and at other points 
was knowingly incorrect. It said if the true facts had been disclosed at renewal then it 
wouldve arranged a landlords policy for Mr Y. It said this amounted to a careless material 
misrepresentation (as set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA)). Fairmead said the remedy available for careless misrepresentations 
under CIDRA was to void the policy from the March 2018 renewal. 
In the alternative, and without prejudice to its position on the issue of non-disclosure, 
Fairmeads solicitors said that it would be entitled to reject the claim in any event under the 
illegal activities exclusion contained in the policy. 
Fairmeads solicitors said the chronology of events since the claim was made amounted to 
insufficient grounds for any argument put forward by Mr Ys solicitors that Fairmead had 
waived its right to void the policy through its actions and/or had affirmed the contract. 
Fairmead said the law permitted it a reasonable amount of time to decide what to do when 
faced with facts that potentially allow voidance. It said in this case the full evidential picture 
hadnt been available early on in the claim or at the time cover was changed. It said it wasnt 
until Mr Ys witness statement in mid-May 2019 that the full facts about the occupancy 
started to emerge. So, it said, no informed choice had been made to affirm the policy in the 
period up to when the original decision to accept liability was rescinded. 
Mr Ys solicitors replied to say that Fairmead had been in possession of the facts which 
allowed avoidance from early February 2019 at the latest shortly after which liability was 
confirmed. They said that it took Fairmead until the end of June to notify Mr Y that it was 
undertaking further enquiries. And they said it took until August 2019 for Fairmead to tell    
Mr Y that it was avoiding cover based on an issue it had been aware of at the point cover 
had been confirmed back in February. In response, Fairmead said that whilst it had known of the existence of the tenant in 
February 2019 it had presumed Mr Y (given his comments during the March 2018 renewal 
telephone call) had merely failed to notify underwriters that hed since let the property. It said 
that was why a landlord policy was put in place instead. Fairmead said that what wasnt 
known until later (when investigations into the cannabis farm were undertaken and Mr Ys 
witness statement taken) was that the property had been tenanted since September 2014. 
Consequently, it said no affirmation or waiver could arise in such circumstances given its 
lack of actual knowledge of the facts Mr Y (through his solicitors) was asserting established 
the same. Fairmead said actual knowledge of the right to avoid was a pre-requisite of any 
argument to establish waiver or affirmation. 
Mr Y replied to say that at the meeting hed had with the loss adjuster at the end of January 
2019 hed provided it with details of the tenancy agreement. So, he said that Fairmead had 
known since early February 2019 that the property had been tenanted since September 
2017. 
Mr Y then complained to this service. Our investigator looked into his complaint and 
recommended that it was upheld. He said he thought Fairmead had affirmed the contract 
when it accepted liability for Mr Ys claim in February 2019. He said it was clear to Fairmead 
at that point that Mr Y had been letting the property and that it was aware of its options under 
CIDRA. He said Fairmeads subsequent consideration of the claim against the policy terms 
reinforced his view that affirmation of the contract had taken place. He thought the policy 
should be reinstated, any reference to the voidance against Mr Ys name removed and the 
claim reconsidered. And he said any subsequent damage sustained whilst the property was 
open to the elements would also need to be considered. 
Fairmead disagreed with our investigators findings and the complaint was referred to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint doesnt centre around whether I think Mr Y misrepresented the risk he was 
asking Fairmead to take on at the March 2018 renewal; I think its clear he did. The tenant  
at the very minimum  had been in the property for 6 months prior to the renewal. Mr Y knew 
that to be the case when he spoke with Fairmead at the time of the renewal. So, I dont know 
why he asked Fairmead what would happen if he decided to let the property out when he 
was already doing so.
But the key issue for me in this complaint centres around what Fairmead knew about the 
tenant and when. Fairmead has argued that it had no actual knowledge that there was a 
tenant in the property from September 2017 before it started to investigate the possible 
cannabis cultivation and before it took Mr Ys witness statement in May 2019. 
It says that when it accepted liability it had presumed (given what Mr Y had said during the 
call at the last renewal) that the tenant had moved in since March 2018 and that Mr Y had 
omitted to let it know. So, it says its lack of actual knowledge about the fact the tenant had 
been there prior to the March 2018 renewal means it wasnt able to affirm the contract when 
it accepted liability for the claim in February 2019. 
Unfortunately for Fairmead, Im unable to agree with what it says. Ive reviewed the file its 
sent us  in particular its case notes - and have made the following observations. When Mr Y first notified Fairmead of his loss (on 25 January 2019) he said during the call 
that the property is rented and the tenant has moved out as the fire made it uninhabitable. 
No mention is made during this call about how long the tenant had been renting the property.
 
On 5 February 2019 I can see that the loss adjuster provided its preliminary report to 
Fairmead. The report presumably followed the site visit on 30 January at which Mr Y says he 
provided the loss adjuster with details of the tenancy agreement. From what the loss 
adjuster reports to Fairmead, I think it is likely that Mr Y told it about the tenancy agreement. 
I say this because the loss adjuster says in the report that property is a rental and the tenant 
has resided there since September 2017. At the end of the report under the heading 
underwriting considerations the loss adjuster comments:
The claim is to be referred back to the underwriters to ensure they are aware that the 
property is not the main residence of the insured but is utilised as a rental property
Below it is a file note that says: Referred to UW [underwriters].
There is then an email from underwriters on 22 February 2019 that states:
The situation at the property has been noted by Coverholder, and effectively the policy is 
being changed with immediate effect. Liability for the claim is accepted and the claim 
can proceed on best terms. [my emphasis]
So, the full evidential picture was available to Fairmead early on in the claim. And it had 
actual knowledge from 5 February 2019, at the latest, that Mr Ys property had been 
tenanted since September 2017. So, I cant agree with it that was only in mid-May 2019 that 
the full facts about the occupancy started to emerge. From its own file, its clear that 
Fairmead knew about the tenancy from February 2019, from which point Fairmead had the 
right to void the policy. And its clear that underwriters accepted liability for the claim in full 
knowledge of the occupancy of the property.  
From Fairmeads file, everything seemed to be proceeding routinely with the claim up to the 
point the three tenders for repair were received in late April/early May 2019. I can see 
Fairmead considered them to be over the top. It was thereafter that Fairmead took the 
decision to alter liability for the claim. It told Mr Y that it was doing so because itd received 
new information about the cannabis cultivation at the property along with evidence from the 
forensic investigators. But I cant see that any new information had become available that 
caused Fairmead to alter liability. 
The investigation into the cause of the fire in mid-June 2019, whether it was the result of 
bypassing the electricity meter (for the cannabis cultivation) and whether the policy exclusion 
for damage caused by illegal activities could be successfully applied to defeat the claim, all 
post-dated Fairmeads change of opinion on liability. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think that Fairmead has treated Mr Y fairly 
or reasonably by voiding his policy back to the March 2018 renewal. It knew the true position 
regarding the occupancy of the property from the start of February 2019. Underwriters were 
notified and accepted liability in full knowledge that the property had been tenanted and the 
wrong policy in place. Fairmead wouldve been aware of the remedies afforded it under 
CIDRA yet chose not to use them. Fairmeads actions are, from February, consistent with 
affirming the contract. Its subsequent consideration of the claim against the policy terms only 
serves to reinforce that it had irrevocably affirmed the contract. Fairmead said in response to our investigators opinion that there was incontrovertible 
evidence that Mr Y had misled it as to the occupancy of his property and that was enough to 
void the policy. I dont disagree with what Fairmead has said. But the difficulty Fairmead 
created for itself was accepting liability and continuing with the claim in full knowledge that 
itd been misled. Im afraid  for the reasons Ive given above  Im unable to reasonably 
accept, as Fairmead would like me to, that it didnt know about the true nature of the risk 
until it carried out further enquiries in May/June 2019. 
I note there has latterly been some comment about illegal activities potentially going on in 
the property at the time of the fire. The existence, or not, of the cannabis farm, didnt form 
part of Fairmeads reason for voiding the policy. As such, I have not considered the content 
of the discussions about this matter and I make no findings in relation to it. It is however, 
worth observing that for any breach of a policy term to be successfully used by insurer to 
defeat a claim, the breach must, of course, be material to the loss. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr Y I require Fairmead to reinstate the landlords policy that it 
cancelled and reconsider Mr Ys claim against the policy terms. It should also remove any 
reference to the voidance from any internal or external databases. Mr Y is not to blame for 
the delay in consideration of his claim, so Fairmead should allow within any claim costs for 
damage that resulted from the property standing unrepaired. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to take 
the steps Ive set out above in the putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman