DRN-3592301
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Curve OS Limited dealt with a transaction he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr J says he was travelling abroad when he noticed a transaction on his account that he 
didnt recognise. He says having spoken to Curve, it then blocked his account and refused to 
speak to the merchant. He also says Curve unfairly offered to remove the account block if he 
accepted liability for any future unauthorised transactions. Mr J says he asked Curve to call 
him, but it didnt do so and says he was left abroad without the ability to buy food. He says 
Curve failed to make an adjustment for his communication needs and would like an apology 
as well as compensation.
Curve says Mr J told it in June 2021 that he didnt recognise a payment for just over £50. It 
says it correctly blocked Mr Js account and did try and call him without success. Curve says 
it told Mr J that he should check with the merchant what the payment was for as Mr J had 
made previous payments to it and says the merchant wouldnt have spoken to it about the 
payment. Curve says Mr J could have still used his account cards without the Curve facility 
and says it offered to reissue the account card, but Mr J didnt provide required security 
answers. It says it hadnt been told about Mr Js communication issue or could make 
reasonable adjustments in those circumstances. Curve has offered to refund its account 
fees.
Mr J had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Curves request that Mr J 
speak to the merchant first about the transaction was reasonable. The investigator thought 
the account block was correctly applied and that Mr J could have completed the security 
process to receive a new account card. The investigator thought Mr J did have access to 
money whilst abroad and thought Curves gesture of goodwill about the fees fair and 
reasonable.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and in summary questions if Curve is acting as a bank without 
a licence and says it refused to carry out a chargeback. He says Curve should have tried to 
call him more than once and says he is unaware about any security questions asked of him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Curve has made a fair and reasonable 
goodwill gesture to refund the account fees in circumstances where it clear Mr J was no 
longer able to use the account after the account block was put in place.
I have looked carefully at Curves records and the evidence Mr J has provided. I think it clear 
that Mr J questioned the transaction initially saying he didnt recognise it, and in those 
circumstances, Curve had no choice but to apply fraud measures to his account. I am sure 
that Mr J appreciates that fraud is a major problem for businesses and individuals and that 
financial businesses must have security measures in place to protect its and its customers 
money.
I appreciate Mr J says that Curve ought to have contacted the merchant in question. But I 
disagree, when in circumstances it clear that Mr J had made payments to that merchant in 
the past. I think it unlikely the merchant would have been able to speak to Curve without Mr 
Js authority in any event. And I think it was entirely reasonable for Curve to apply the 
account blocks to protect Mr Js money and suggest he speak to the merchant to clarify if the 
payment was fraudulent.
I also appreciate that by Curve applying the account block, that inevitably meant Mr J was 
caused inconvenience whilst abroad. But I cant see what alternative there was and am 
satisfied that it was Mr J that raised the question of an unauthorised transaction in the first 
place. Im also satisfied that Curve fairly said it would remove the block, but that Mr J would 
be responsible for any further unauthorised transactions. I dont think such an offer was 
unfair and think that would have allowed Mr J to have called the merchant himself and 
clarified what had taken place.
I have not seen any evidence that Mr J was left without access to money whilst abroad and 
am satisfied that he could have used his account cards without using Curve. I appreciate Mr 
J says he has unanswered questions about what took place, but this decision cant answer 
or explain every point or question that is raised. And its not our role to comment on what Mr 
J says about Curve acting as a bank.
Im satisfied that Mr J didnt ask Curve to carry out a chargeback initially but complained 
about a potential fraudulent transaction. And I have made clear that I dont think Curve made 
a mistake by applying the account block in those circumstances. I also think that even if Mr J 
asked for a chargeback to be raised then he would have been told to speak to the merchant 
first to try and resolve the dispute in accordance with the chargeback rules.
I appreciate Mr J says Curve ought to have tried to call him more than once and should have 
considered his communication requirements. But I dont think Curve had been told about any 
such requirements before the issue and in any event did try and call Mr J. Im satisfied that 
Curve made its position clear, which was that Mr J should speak to the merchant and find 
out if there had been a legitimate payment, a mistake or fraud but the account block would 
remain to protect his money until clarified.
I have looked through the communication logs between Curve and Mr J and can see that 
Curve offered to issue a new account card but required certain questions answered first. I 
cant see those questions were ever answered by Mr J, so I dont think Curve acted unfairly 
by not sending a new account card. I appreciate that is not the main part of this complaint.
I accept that Mr J was unable to use his Curve account and so am satisfied that Curve has 
acted fairly by offering to refund the account fee. I think such an offer fairly reflects what took 
place. 
Putting things right
Curve should refund the account fee as it has fairly agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Curve OS Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to refund the account fees. Mr Js acceptance of this decision would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman