DRN-3627618
The complaint
Miss A complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss A was provided with an Aqua branded credit card, which had an initial credit limit of 
£600, in July 2014. The credit limit on this account was increased on three occasions until it 
reached £2,300 in July 2018.
NewDay also provided Miss A with a Marbles branded credit card, which had an initial limit 
of £900, in December 2015. The credit limit on this account was increased on two occasions 
until it reached £2,500 in June 2018. The limit was then decreased on two occasions leaving 
a limit of £2,300 from July 2020.
NewDay also provided Miss A with an Amazon branded credit card, which had an initial limit 
of £500, in November 2018. The credit limit on this account was increased to £1,400 in April 
2019.
Miss A said that the lending was unaffordable as she had several payday loans at the time 
as well as other unsecured debts. She says adequate checks didnt take place to ensure she 
could afford the repayments.
NewDay said that checks were carried out before the credit cards were provided and that 
Miss A met its lending criteria. It said it regularly reviews its customers accounts and this 
can result in changes to the credit limit. It said the credit limit increases took place within its 
policy and that proportionate checks took place. However, it upheld Miss As complaint in 
regard to her Amazon credit card from the credit limit increase in April 2019. It refunded £24 
in late payment fees, £192 in over limit fees, £3 in cash advance fees and made a 
proportionate interest refund of £250.64. These were applied to Miss As Amazon account.
Our investigator reviewed what Miss A and NewDay had told us. He thought that NewDay 
shouldnt have provided Miss A with the Marbles or Amazon credit cards or any of the 
subsequent credit limit increases. He also didnt think that NewDay should have increased 
Miss As credit limit on her Aqua credit card in July 2017 or July 2018. 
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it didnt ask for (and wasnt required 
to collect) evidence of income and expenditure in the form of payslips or bank statements. It 
said until March 2016 it relied on information from a single credit reference agency. It then 
used three credit refence agencies and in June 2018 started to use current account turnover 
data. It said its lending decisions were based on the information available at the and that its 
checks were proportionate. 
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss As complaint. 
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Miss As income and expenditure. 
Aqua card  initial lending decision and first limit increase
Miss A was provided with an Aqua credit card in July 2014 with a credit limit of £600. At the 
time of her application she was recorded as having an annual income of £21,500. She was 
noted as living with parents and had unsecured balances of £1,400. A credit check took 
place and while a defaulted account was noted this was from 56 month prior. There were no 
accounts recorded as in arrears. I do not find that the information collected at the time of 
application raised concerns that would mean a credit limit of £600 should be considered 
unaffordable. 
The credit limit on Miss As Aqua card was increased to £800 in January 2015. I can see that 
before this increase, Miss A had exceeded her credit limit in one month. However, she also 
made repayments in excess of the minimum in other months. Therefore, noting the size of 
the limit increase and the other information available, I do not find that I have enough to say 
that this increase shouldve have been applied.
Marbles card 
Miss A was provided with a Marbles credit card in December 2015, with a credit limit of 
£900. The checks carried out before this card was provided show Miss A as being employed 
and her annual income is recorded as £1,700. I have looked at Miss As banks statements 
from the time and these show a monthly income of around £1,700 and so I have accepted 
the figure was incorrectly input and her assessment was most likely based on a monthly 
income of £1,700. NewDay carried out a credit check and this didnt show any arrears, 
defaults or other issues that would raise concerns. However, Miss A had gone over her limit 
on her Aqua card five times in the previous 12 months and her balance was around the 
credit limit. I think this should have raised concerns that meant further checks were 
undertaken.
I cannot say what would have been disclosed had further questions been asked about 
Miss As income and expenses but in the absence of any other information I have relied on 
information from Miss As banks statements and credit report. These show that Miss A was 
operating in her overdraft and was going over the overdraft limit on several occasions. In the 
months leading up to the provision of the Marbles card, Miss A also took out several payday 
loans. I think that this shows Miss A was struggling financially. Had proportionate checks 
taken place I think NewDay would have realised this.
I cannot see that Miss As financial circumstances improved before the credit limit increase 
was applied in December 2016. Miss As debts were increasing (from around £3,500 in 
March 2016 to over £6,000 in December 2016) and she had gone over her credit limit on several occasions. Miss A also went over the new credit limit two months before it was 
further increased in June 2018 by which point her debts had increased to over £9,000. 
Given the reasons above, I do not find that NewDay should have been considered the 
provision of the Marbles card and subsequent credit limit increases as affordable for Miss A.
Aqua credit card limit increases July 2017 and July 2018
The credit limit on Miss As Aqua credit card was increased to £1,400 in July 2017. By this 
time, Miss A had taken out the Marbles credit card alongside her Aqua credit card and was 
utilising over 90% of the limits on each. Her debts were increasing and her repayments 
towards her credit cards werent reducing her balances in any significant way. NewDays 
data showed Miss A was making use of payday loans around the time of the increase.
The credit limit was then increased to £2,300 in July 2018. This was a month after the credit 
limit on Miss As Marbles credit card was increased. Miss As debts were increasing and 
were recorded as being over £11,700 at this time and she was still making use of payday 
loans. Therefore, I cannot say that her circumstances had changed such that the limit 
increase should have been considered reasonable.
Given the above I do not find that the credit limit increases that took place in July 2017 and 
July 2018 should have been considered affordable for Miss A. 
Amazon card
Miss A was provided with an Amazon credit card account in November 2018. The credit limit 
was £500. At this time her monthly income was recorded as being £2,644 and her living 
expenses as £850. This could suggest a low credit limit would be affordable but considering 
the other information NewDay had about Miss A, including this being her third credit card 
with NewDay, I do not find it was reasonable this credit card account was provided. I say this 
as the data NewDay gathered showed Miss A had £1,240 of payday loans and £14,900 of 
unsecured debts. The data on the other credit cards showed that Miss As debts had been 
increasing since she was first provided credit by NewDay and her total debts were recorded 
on the other credit card data as being just under £20,000. Miss A was utilising the credit 
limits on her other cards and her monthly payments werent significantly reducing her 
balances, instead her overall debts were increasing. 
Based on the above, I do not find that NewDay should have considered providing further 
credit at this time as sustainably affordable for Miss A and so I do not think the Amazon 
credit card should have been provided. 
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the Marbles or Amazon accounts, I dont 
think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreements. 
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Miss As credit limit from £800, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Miss A has had the benefit of the money they spent on the account so I think she 
should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
In regard to the Marbles and Amazon accounts:
Rework the Marbles and Amazon accounts removing all interest, fees, charges and 
insurances (which have not already been refunded) that have been applied. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss A along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding 
these accounts from Miss As credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss A for the remaining amount. Once Miss A 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to these accounts 
should be removed from her credit file. 
In regard to the Aqua account:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied to balances above £800. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss A along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after July 2017 regarding this account from Miss As credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £800, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss A for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss A has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
July 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman