DRN-4253524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Julian Hodge Bank Limited (trading as Hodge Lifetime) unfairly 
declined their porting application. As a result, they paid an early repayment charge (ERC) as 
well as costs and fees related to their porting application, which theyd like refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Hodge Lifetime. They took out a fixed interest rate 
product in early 2020. Mr M says they chose a product that was portable as they intended to 
move. 
Mr and Mrs M made a porting application to Hodge Lifetime via a broker in late 2021. They 
expected their sale and purchase to take place on the same day. However, their purchase 
was delayed. Hodge Lifetime said it only allows porting when the sale and purchase is 
simultaneous. Mr and Mrs M paid an ERC of about £5,000.
Our investigator said Hodge Lifetime acted in accordance with its lending criteria. She didnt 
recommend that Hodge Lifetime should refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said, in summary, he had no idea Hodge Lifetime required 
porting to be simultaneous, and it was unfair for Hodge Lifetime to rely on hidden terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A mortgage is a charge on a property, which secures a loan. If the borrower sells the 
property they have to repay the loan. Like most fixed interest rate products, the product Mr 
and Mrs M took out in late 2020 had an ERC. The product offer says the ERC is a 
percentage of the amount repaid, which reduces over the five-year term of the product. So, if 
Mr and Mrs M sold the property and repaid the mortgage during this time they had to pay the 
ERC. 
However, like many lenders, Hodge Lifetime allows borrowers to port. Porting means that 
the lender agrees to refund or waive the ERC if the borrower takes a new mortgage on a 
new property at the same interest rate as the old one, as long as certain conditions are met. 
Mr and Mrs Ms product offer says: You have the right to transfer this loan to another 
property. To benefit from this right we must be satisfied with your credit history, that you can 
continue to afford the mortgage, and that the loan to value ratio remains within our eligibility 
criteria. The new property must also be acceptable to us
Mr M referred to the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and for completeness the 
relevant provision is: Your loan is portable and we will consent to the transfer of your loan to 
a new property if the following conditions are met The conditions are that the new 
property is suitable security and they could afford the loan.
Mr M says its unfair that the mortgage terms and conditions he agreed to dont say porting 
must be simultaneous, and so he didnt agree to this. He referred to a decision on our 
website about a lender declining to port a mortgage. Mr M says theres a distinction between 
their contract with Hodge Lifetime and Hodge Lifetimes internal policy and guidance. While I 
understand his point, I dont think its fair to imply that this means Hodge Lifetime must allow 
non-simultaneous porting. Doing so would create further questions, such as what gap it 
would have to allow between the sale and purchase. Most importantly though, Hodge 
Lifetime didnt say Mr and Mrs Ms product couldnt be ported. It said it allows porting where 
the sale and purchase are simultaneous. 
Hodge Lifetime provided its internal policy, which says it will only port if the sale and 
purchase are simultaneous. Some lenders allow a grace period between a sale and 
purchase  in which case the borrower would pay the ERC but this would be refunded when 
they took out a mortgage for their purchase and ported the interest rate to it. But not all 
lenders offer a grace period, and they arent required to do so. Hodge Lifetime applied its 
policy correctly here. I dont think Hodge Lifetime made an error when it told Mr and Mrs M it 
wouldnt allow them to port their mortgage if there was a gap between their sale and 
purchase.
Mr M says they werent told this until the last minute. Lenders dont have to publish their 
policies or provide copies to customers. If Mr and Mrs M had told Hodge Lifetime their sale 
and purchase might not be simultaneous, or asked what would happen if this was the case 
Id expect it to give them a clear answer. But based on the available evidence I dont think I 
can fairly find that Hodge Lifetime misled Mr and Mrs M about when it would allow porting. 
Hodge Lifetimes porting application form asks whether the applicant intends to complete 
their sale and purchase on the same day. The application form asks that they contact the 
contract variations team at Hodge Lifetime if this isnt the case. The porting application 
submitted by Mr and Mrs Ms broker in late 2021 confirmed that they intended to complete 
their sale and purchase on the same day. The application proceeded on this basis.
Mr M sent an email to Hodge Lifetime on 28 February 2022 saying there was a delay with 
the purchase for one or two weeks. He said they expected their sale to go ahead on 10 
March 2022. Mr M asked Hodge Lifetime to confirm this short delay wouldnt result in it 
claiming any ERC. 
Hodge Lifetimes responses effectively said the ERC would be waived if the mortgage was 
ported. I appreciate that Mr M found this unhelpful. What he wanted to know was if they 
could still port the mortgage if there was a gap between the sale and purchase. Mr M asked 
this specifically on 5 March 2022 and asked for a response by 7 March 2022. 
Mr and Mrs Ms broker also contacted Hodge Lifetime on 3 March 2022. He said his client 
had contacted him to say the mortgage would have to be redeemed and a new application 
submitted as there would be a gap of 4 to 6 weeks between the sale of their property and the 
purchase. He asked if anything could be done to avoid submitting a new application.
On 7 March 2022 Hodge Lifetime sent written confirmation to the broker that if the sale and 
purchase werent simultaneous, the porting application couldnt proceed. It sent an email to 
Mr M saying this on 9 March 2022. 
The framing of the brokers question on 3 March 2022 suggests Mr M was aware that porting 
wasnt available when there was a gap between the sale and purchase. But even if this 
wasnt the case, Hodge Lifetime confirmed this in writing two working days after the broker 
asked whether the porting application could proceed. Mr M says he was told during a call that Hodge Lifetime would waive the ERC, but the 
member of staff then called back and said this wasnt the case. While this must have been 
disappointing, it doesnt seem to have had any significant impact on events.
The sale of Mr and Mrs Ms property completed on 10 March 2022. Mr M said withdrawing 
from the sale would have had a devastating effect on the households in the chain, cost them 
all financially and risk them being unable to proceed with their purchase. It's not clear if Mr 
and Mrs M had exchanged contracts and agreed the completion date before they knew their 
purchase would be delayed. Or if they chose to proceed knowing theyd be a gap. Either 
way, I havent seen anything to suggest that Hodge Lifetime gave Mr and Mrs M incorrect 
information about there being a porting grace period, or that they relied on incorrect 
information from Hodge Lifetime when they agreed a completion date for their sale.
Mr and Mrs M repaid their mortgage and paid the ERC. Theyd hoped to avoid this by porting 
the mortgage and it must have been disappointing that this wasnt possible. But Hodge 
Lifetime was entitled to apply the ERC, in accordance with the terms of the product Mr and 
Mrs M agreed to. I cant fairly require Hodge Lifetime to refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs M agreed to pay fees and costs related to the porting application. While I 
appreciate their frustration that the porting application didnt proceed, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Hodge Lifetime to refund or compensate them for these costs, which 
they agreed to pay. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman