DRN-3721662
The complaint
Mrs M, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, lent to her when she 
could not afford it.
What happened
Using information provided by Morses, here is a brief loan table of Mrs Ms lending.
Loan Date Taken Principal Term and Weekly 
RepaymentsDate Settled
1 27/06/2017 £300 33 x £15 16/11/2017
2 16/11/2017 £500 33 x £25 23/05/2018
3 23/05/2018 £500 33 x £25 05/12/2018
4 05/12/2018 £500 33 x £25 08/02/2019
5 07/02/2019 £800 52 x £28 17/12/2020
Morses final response letter (FRL) did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators thought that loans 4 
and 5 ought to be the ones for which Morses put things right. But Morses disagreed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. This was the basis on which our 
adjudicator thought that loans 4 and 5 ought to be uphold for Mrs M. 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mrs M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 3. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs M had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
It is clear from the information Morses has provided in its income and expenditure (I&E) 
assessment document that Mrs M always has been a very low income earner. For example, 
for loan 1, Mrs M was recorded as having a weekly income of £125 and her expenditure was 
£35 which was broken down as £20 for groceries each week, £10 for utilities and £5 a week 
for another loan. So immediately Morses knew that she was taking at least one other loan. 
And I think that £25 a week for food was too low a figure to be considered realistic.
And I mention this now as the figures being on the unrealistic scale perpetuates for each of 
Mrs Ms loans. For loan 4, Mrs M had been in debt to Morses for about 18 months and her 
income seemed to have increased to £179 a week and her expenditure to £64 a week. That, 
according to the Morses records, included £30 a week for food and £15 a week for other 
loans. So Morses was aware that her liability to other lenders had increased as had her 
liability to Morses. 
And for loan 5 her income went down and her overall expenditure figure increased but the 
expenditure on weekly groceries decreased again to £25. These were not realistic figures 
which leads me to think that the creditworthiness assessments required of Morses were not 
carried out to the correct level. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 5 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Mrs M, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mrs Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for eighteen months
Mrs Ms first loan was for £300 and loan 4 was for £500. So the amount Mrs M was 
borrowing had almost doubled as well as her being indebted to Morses for a 
significant time. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Mrs M was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates her problems may have been 
worsening. And I refer to some of the comments I have made earlier when reviewing 
the lending history and the data it had collected on Mrs M over the months.   
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mrs Ms indebtedness was unsustainable. 
From loan 4 onwards Mrs M was provided with a new loan a very short time after she 
settled her previous loan. 
Mrs M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out almost two years after Mrs Ms first. And it was for a larger amount of £800. 
Mrs M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over 
an extended period. 
And I disagree with Morses when it states that her weekly repayment figure from £25 a week 
to £28 a week for loan 5 was not unreasonable due to her repayment history. But the 
extension of the indebtedness to 52 weeks is a factor I have considered. And from the 
repayment records I can see that a large proportion of the loan 5 capital was used to pay off 
loan 4. The unsustainability showed and extending her term to 52 weeks would not 
necessarily cure that. 
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. 
I think that Mrs M lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mrs M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Morses should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs M from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs M loans 4 and 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ms borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ms credit 
file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and I direct that Morse Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman