DRN-3636101
The complaint
Ms W complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance 
(Swinton) has mistakenly cancelled her insurance policy and wont re-instate it. 
What happened
Ms W had an accidental death insurance policy that was sold by Swinton. Swinton didnt 
provide the policy itself, but instead acted as a financial intermediary or broker.
In January 2022 Ms Ws direct debit for her monthly premium failed. She arranged for 
Swinton to re-instate it, but because of a problem with Swintons internal system payment 
failed again. This meant that Ms Ws accidental death policy was automatically cancelled.
Swinton says it isnt able to get the policy re-instated and it hasnt sold policies like this for a 
number of years. It says this means it cant find another policy for Ms W to replace the 
original.
Instead Swinton offered £250 to make up for the inconvenience and upset Ms W had 
suffered, and said that if she could find an alternate policy it would consider paying any 
difference in premium for twelve months.
Ms W doesnt think this is a fair way to settle her complaint, so she asked this service to 
review her complaint.
Our investigator thought Swintons offer was fair. He said he couldnt ask Swinton to re-
instate a policy if the insurer wouldnt do that, nor could he ask Swinton to find a new policy if 
it no longer sources this type of cover. He thought compensation of £250 and the offer to pay 
the difference in cost between the old policy and any new one Ms W could find was fair.
Ms W doesnt agree. She says its wrong that Swinton should be able to take her money all 
these years and now not honour her policy when it made the mistake that cause the 
cancellation. And she says the £250 wasnt compensation, but instead a gesture of goodwill.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this isnt what Ms W wants to hear, but I will 
explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
Swinton has acknowledged it made a mistake when re-instating Ms Ws direct debit. So I 
dont need to say more on this point, and it only remains for me to decide if the way its 
proposed to put things right is fair and reasonable.
The normal way for a business to put things right after it makes a mistake is for it to put its 
customer in the position theyd have been in but for the mistake. In this case, that would be 
that Ms Ws accidental death cover would continue (providing of course that she paid the 
relevant premiums when they fell due).
Unfortunately, it isnt possible to do that here. Swinton says that once cancelled, a policy 
cant be re-instated. That is common in the insurance industry, so its not an unreasonable 
thing for Swinton to say. Swinton also says it no longer sources and sells policies like Ms 
Ws, so it cant find another for her. Im afraid I cant make Swinton change its business 
practices as its entitled to make commercial decisions like this.
The only thing left for Swinton to do is to ensure Ms W isnt out of pocket for a reasonable 
amount of time if she finds a similar but more expensive policy. Swinton says it will consider 
paying the difference for 12 months and I think that is appropriate. I wouldnt expect Swinton 
to withdraw that offer so long as any extra payment is the minimum Ms W needs to pay for 
replacement cover. For the exclusion of doubt thats a benefit of £362,488.40 from a policy 
that pays out on similar terms and conditions to Ms Ws original cover. 
I also think the £250 Swinton offered is a fair amount of compensation for the trouble its 
caused. Its in line with payments recommended by this service in situations like this and 
reflects the level of upset Ms W has had. 
Im aware that Ms W says the £250 is a goodwill gesture, not compensation, but the final 
response letter says its to make up for the trouble and upset shes experienced, and 
however the payment is described it seems to me to be a fair amount.
Ms W asked that Swinton refund all the premiums shes paid from 2004 to date. The policy 
wasnt designed to pay any amount other than if a claim was made, and didnt acquire any 
inherent monetary value. Essentially Ms W has had the comfort of the cover for earlier years, 
in exchange for paying the premiums. As shes had the benefit of this, it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to aske Swinton to refund earlier premiums.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited 
trading as Swinton Insurances offer of £250 compensation and premium difference for 12 
months is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman