DRN-4000184
The complaint
Mr G complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE avoided his motor insurance policy and 
refused to pay his claim. He also complains that it disposed of his car without his consent.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr G had a car accident, for which he accepted fault. He claimed on his 
motor insurance policy with Great Lakes. Great Lakes inspected Mr Gs car and decided it 
was a total loss (whats commonly known as a write-off).
But it subsequently told Mr G it was declining his claim and avoiding his policy. This means it 
had decided to treat the policy as if it had never existed. It explained that this was because 
Mr G had changed the air filter, and it considered that the change amounted to a 
modification to his car. It said Mr G hadnt told it about the modification, and if he had, it 
wouldnt have been willing to insure his car.
Great Lakes disposed of Mr Gs car in early January 2022. Mr G only discovered that this 
had happened some time later, by which time Great Lakes couldnt recover the car. It sent 
Mr G a cheque for the sales proceeds less recovery and storage costs.
Mr G (who has been represented by his father in this complaint) thinks Great Lakes decision 
is unfair. Hes explained that a replacement filter from the main dealer would have been very 
expensive, costing hundreds of pounds. He says he bought the replacement filter on the 
advice of his garage, and it cost around £20. He doesnt accept that it was a performance- 
enhancing part. And hes queried whether, for example, replacing the brake pads would be 
considered as a modification.
Mr Gs told us that he lives in a rural location with very limited public transport. Following the 
accident, he didnt have a car until 17 August 2022, when his father bought him a second- 
hand car. This was because he was starting a new job and he needed to be able to drive to 
work. He says the whole situation had a negative impact on his mental health.
One of our investigators considered Mr Gs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think Mr G had made any misrepresentation to Great Lakes. And he 
didnt think Mr G should reasonably have considered that changing the air filter amounted to 
a modification for the purposes of the policy. So he said Great Lakes should deal with Mr Gs 
claim, and if the claim is successful, it should add interest to the settlement. He also said that 
Great Lakes should remove the voidance from Mr Gs records and pay him £10 per day for 
the loss of use of his car from the date of the accident to the date it disposed of it. And he 
said Great Lakes should pay Mr G £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hed 
experienced.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to Great Lakes on 1 February 2023. I said:
The first issue I need to decide is whether Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the relevant law when it avoided Mr Gs policy. If it didnt, then I also need to 
consider how it should put things right.
Great Lakes claims that Mr G made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. It says 
that he confirmed that he hadnt modified the car in any way. But it considers that the air filter 
that Mr G fitted amounted to a modification, and that as a result, it was entitled to avoid his 
policy.
Mr G had a responsibility under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out 
the policy. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and the insurer can show that if it had 
known the true position, it wouldnt have offered the policy (or would have offered it on 
different terms), the insurer may be entitled to void the policy. Thats what Great Lakes 
claims to have been entitled to do here. But Im not convinced that there was a 
misrepresentation in this case.
Mr Gs told us he no longer has the receipt for the air filter. It would have been useful to see 
that. But I can understand how, not expecting it to cause difficulties with a future insurance 
claim, he might not have felt the need to keep it.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr Gs told us that he remembers changing the air filter the day before he drove a long 
distance to visit a relative. He says a warning light was showing on his dashboard and he 
was nervous about making the journey without rectifying the issue. Mr Gs told us that he 
made the journey in October 2021  just over four months after he took out the policy. 
I acknowledge that Great Lakes has queried whether an issue with the air filter would have 
caused a warning light to come on. But I find what Mr G says about the timing of the 
replacement of the air filter persuasive, on balance.
As a result, Im not convinced that the replacement air filter had been fitted when Mr G took 
out the policy. So the question of whether he made a misrepresentation about whether the 
car was modified doesnt arise. And this means that Im not satisfied that it was open to 
Great Lakes to rely on CIDRA to avoid Mr Gs policy.
I should add, however, that even if Id concluded that I thought it likely that Mr G had already 
changed the filter when he took the policy out, I dont think the questions he was asked 
during his application were clear and specific enough that it would be fair to find that it ought 
to have been obvious to Mr G that he needed to tell Great Lakes that hed changed the air 
filter.
But since Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr G changed the air filter after he took out the 
policy, I dont need to consider this point further.
Great Lakes has also pointed to the policy provision concerning modifications:
10. Car modifications
This policy doesnt cover any non-standard parts (modifications). If you make a claim 
for loss or damage to your car, we will only pay the cost of replacing parts needed to meet the manufacturers standard specification, including optional extras fitted by the 
manufacturer at the time of first registration. If you dont tell us about a modification, 
we may cancel your policy from its start date, apply additional premium or add new 
terms to your policy. If you make a claim we may reject the claim or only provide 
partial payment for it. Car modifications include, but are not limited to:
Changes to the bodywork
Changes to suspension or brakes
Cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels
Anything affecting performance such as changes to the engine management 
system or exhaust system
Changes to the audio/entertainment system.
Mr G bought the filter from a well-known chain store that specialises in motor parts. It was a 
generic, compatible filter, not made by the manufacturer of Mr Gs car.
Great Lakes has argued that because the replacement air filter which Mr G fitted wasnt 
made by the manufacturer of the car, it constituted a modification which Mr G should have 
told it about. But if that were the case, most cars wouldnt be insured, given the routine 
changes numerous car parts go through during a cars lifetime of MOTs, services and 
repairs, as well as tyre changes.
I acknowledge that Great Lakes considers that the new air filter that Mr G fitted was 
performance-enhancing. It says this type of air filter is commonly used to increase air into 
the engine and enhance the power, performance and induction noise of a car. And it 
considers that this amounts to a significant modification. Its provided the engineers report it 
got after Mr G had the accident. But all that says is Vehicle has performance modifications 
fitted  Performance enhancing air filter. No technical information or detail has been 
provided about why Great Lakes considers the air filter that Mr G fitted to have been 
performance-enhancing.
Great Lakes has also provided a link to the website for the dealer Mr G says he bought the 
filter from. Its true that its listed as a Performance Air Filter, and some customer reviews 
state that they feel that its made their car more responsive, or that its given them a bit of 
extra power. But Im not satisfied that the listing on the website indicates that the filter was 
likely to result in any  or at least any significant  improvement to the performance of the 
car. And I dont think it ought reasonably to have occurred to Mr G that replacing the air filter 
amounted to a modification that he needed to tell Great Lakes about.
In the course of considering the complaint, I asked Great Lakes to provide a copy of its risk 
criteria. Those refer specifically, with photos, to what looks like the type of air filter that Mr G 
fitted. And based on the risk criteria, Im satisfied that Great Lakes would have cancelled the 
policy from the time it became aware that the new filter had been fitted. Great Lakes says 
that this would have led to the same outcome for Mr G, since it wouldnt have accepted his 
claim due to the non-disclosed and unacceptable modification.
But Great Lakes engineer only examined Mr Gs car after (and as a result of) the accident. 
So even if Great Lakes would have cancelled Mr Gs policy when it became aware of the 
replacement air filter, the policy would still have been live at the time of the accident, and 
Mr G would still have been covered.Great Lakes told Mr G that it was voiding his policy on 23 December 2021. That was more 
than a month after the accident. By that stage it had got an engineers report on the car, 
carried out various checks and calculated the market value of the car. Ive seen nothing to 
make me think that but for the issue with the air filter, Great Lakes wouldnt have settled the 
claim.
As it was, the money Great Lakes sent Mr G after it disposed of his car was considerably 
less than hed have needed to buy a replacement car. And Mr G was left without a car until 
17 August 2022, when his fathers told us that he bought Mr G a second-hand car so that he 
could travel to a new job.
I can understand how not having a car for such an extended period would have had a 
serious impact on Mr G - and the more so as he lives in a rural area, which hes told us has 
very limited public transport. Im satisfied that Great Lakes should compensate him for this 
and I consider compensation of £10 per day for the period from 23 December 2021, by 
which I think Great Lakes could reasonably have been expected to settle Mr Gs claim, and 
17 August 2022, when he got his new car, is appropriate in the circumstances.
So I said that my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold the complaint, and to 
require Great Lakes to put things right by doing as Ive set out under the heading Putting 
things right below.
Further submissions
Mr Gs father, on Mr Gs behalf, confirmed that hed received my provisional decision, and 
that his only comment was that Great Lakes had deducted amounts for vehicle recovery and 
storage from the settlement it made to Mr G. He said the car was recovered from the 
accident site and stored at a recovery yard, which he believes the insurance assessor visited 
to inspect the car. And he says Great Lakes shouldnt have charged Mr G for recovery or 
storage.
Great Lakes didnt accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary, that it believes that 
the replacement filter that Mr G fitted constituted a modification to his car. It says the type of 
filter that was originally fitted to Mr Gs car is designed to be easily replaceable, and a new 
one can typically be fitted in minutes. Whats more, it says Mr G could have bought a direct 
replacement for the original air filter very cheaply from the same place as he bought the filter 
that he fitted.
It has reiterated that the air filter that Mr G fitted was sold as a Performance filter. It says 
its specifically designed to increase airflow into the engine, which in turn increases the 
amount of fuel to the engine, and so increases its power. And it doesnt believe that the 
significance of the power increase should be relevant to my decision. It points out that the 
policy doesnt differentiate between acceptable and unacceptable levels of performance 
improvement. Rather, it simply states that Great Lakes doesnt cover modified vehicles.
Great Lakes has pointed to the fact that the original airbox housing and trunking had to be 
removed in order to accommodate the replacement filter and the original air feed was 
removed and the cable tied out of the way. It says that it doesnt require replacement parts to 
be made by the vehicles manufacturer, but they should conform to the general specification 
of the original part, and shouldnt require adaptation of the vehicle in order to be fitted. Great 
Lakes doesnt accept that the filter was generic, as it was marketed specifically as a 
performance filter. And it doesnt consider it to have been compatible either, given that a 
number of other engine parts had to be removed so that it could be installed.
Great Lakes has commented that With vehicle modifications, it is often not the quantum of the actual change in performance that is the issue but more that the vehicle has been 
deliberately modified away from standard specification in pursuit of that performance 
increase. It says that this is a well-established indicator of risk which it isnt willing to accept. 
And it says that any UK motor insurer would categorise the fitting of the type of filter that 
Mr G fitted as a declarable modification.
Great Lakes believes, on the balance of probability, that Mr G fitted the replacement filter in 
full knowledge of the enhancements it offered. It accepts that if its true that he changed the 
filter after he took the policy out, this would have impacted its decision to void the policy for 
misrepresentation. But it says it would still have rejected Mr Gs claim. And it remains of the 
belief that the policy wording entitles it to cancel a policy or refuse to pay a claim if an 
undeclared modification is discovered on inspection of a vehicle after a claim is made.
Finally, Great Lakes says the settlement to Mr G was in line with the (then) current value of 
the car, less recovery and storage costs. It says it has no control over cost of any 
replacement vehicle. And since the policy doesnt provide for gap cover, it disputes the 
relevance of the time between settlement of the claim and the purchase of a new car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Great Lakes feels strongly that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But having 
reviewed the complaint again and thought carefully about everything thats been said, Im not 
convinced that theres any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Its true that the policy included a term requiring Mr G to tell Great Lakes about any 
modifications to his car. But I dont consider the replacement air filter that he fitted to have 
been fundamental to the risk that Great Lakes had agreed to insure. This means that I dont 
think that it was reasonable of Great Lakes not to consider Mr Gs claim due to the 
replacement of the air filter. And that would be my view regardless of whether he told Great 
Lakes about the change.
I say this because the contract of insurance that Mr G had with Great Lakes was an annual 
one. Mr G was required to provide accurate information when he took out the policy, and 
again if he renewed it. Great Lakes should have been aware that it was possible that 
relatively minor changes could take place between the start of the policy and renewal, or 
between renewals. I consider that this was effectively part of the risk that it agreed to insure. 
If Mr G had made more fundamental changes to his car, I might have taken a different view. 
But it remains my view that the replacement air filter had a negligible impact on the 
performance of the car  and on the likelihood of it being stolen or damaged. In the 
circumstances, I find that Great Lakes acted unfairly in not dealing with Mr Gs claim.
Great Lakes has commented about the lack of gap cover in the policy. But my finding on 
loss of use wasnt based on the policy having included that type of cover. If Great Lakes had 
settled Mr Gs claim within typical timescales, as I find it should, its reasonable to assume 
that Mr G would have received significantly more in settlement than he did, and in all 
probability, he wouldnt have had to wait for so long to get a new car. Mr Gs father 
eventually bought him a car in August 2022. So Mr G had the use of a car from then 
onwards. But I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable to require Great Lakes to 
compensate Mr G for the loss of use of his car from 23 December 2021, by which time it 
should have settled Mr Gs claim, until 17 August 2022, when he once again had a car.Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should:
Reinstate the policy and settle Mr Gs claim subject to the remaining policy terms;
Pay simple interest at 8% per year on the difference between the total settlement and 
the amount that Great Lakes has already paid Mr G in settlement of his claim, 
calculated from 23 December 2021 until the date payment is made;
Remove any references to the policy having been voided from internal and external 
databases;
Pay Mr G £10 per day to compensate him for the loss of use of his car, calculated 
from 23 December 2021 to 17 August 2022; and
Pay Mr G £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset this matter has caused 
him.
For the avoidance of doubt, as the investigator mentioned in his view, once Great Lakes 
reinstates the policy, the balance of the full premium for the policy year in which the claim 
was made will be payable and Great Lakes may deduct that from the settlement to Mr G. 
And Great Lakes should include in the settlement of the claim reimbursement to Mr G of all 
recovery and storage charges that it would have covered itself if it had settled his claim, as 
I find it should have.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman