DRN-2101856
The complaint
A director of L complains on behalf of L about Western Union International Bank GmbH 
(WU)s exchange rate when it made an international transfer. He also complains that WU 
took too long to make the transfer, communicated in an unhelpful way and gave Ls 
representative conflicting information, causing further delays.
Ls director is being represented by an employee, Ms R, in bringing this complaint.
What happened
On 30 April 2019, Ms R completed an online order with WU to transfer 8.6 million Pakistani 
Rupees (PKR) from L to a recipient in Pakistan. 
There was a delay in the payment leaving Ls account as WU said it had to confirm some 
details. Ms R emailed and phoned WU about this on 3 May and the payment was debited 
that day. 
On 10 May, Ms R complained to WU on behalf of L about both the exchange rate and the 
non-receipt of funds by the beneficiary in Pakistan. She said she didnt realise the rate was 
poor until 9 May. Ms R made enquiries of other banks and sent WU evidence of the rates the 
other banks said they would have offered on the same date. 
Ms R discussed recalling the payment with WU, but when told the costs of doing so, decided 
to proceed. Over the following fortnight, she continued to chase WU for the whereabouts of 
the payment. 
Ms R emailed again to chase things up on 23 May but it appears the payment arrived that 
day. 
On 31 May, WU replied to Ls complaint. WU gave a detailed life cycle for the payment and 
in summary, said that the length of time taken was not their fault. They also said that the 
exchange rate was clear at the time of booking the transaction, so L could have sought 
alternative quotes if it wished.  
Ms R remained unhappy, so she asked us to look into what had happened. She said, in 
summary:
WU gave L a very uncompetitive rate
The transfer took nearly four weeks, which was much too long
WU had caused confusion (which itself contributed to the delays) with regards to a 
form that was required to release the funds. 
WU communicated unhelpfully via a note on its electronic platform, rather than 
emailing Ms R in the way it always had before. 
One of our investigators looked into things and concluded that WU hadnt done anything 
wrong. He said WU had shown the exchange rate that would apply to the transaction clearly. 
And they werent obliged to offer competitive rates. He didnt think WU were responsible for 
the delays. 
L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at things again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, but Ive reached essentially the same 
conclusions as our investigator. So Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why by 
looking at each of Ls main points in turn:
Did WU act unfairly in giving an uncompetitive rate for the transfer in PKR? 
Ms R has complained that WUs rate was worse than the rate she could have got from other 
banks. She has provided some evidence of this, in the form of emails from another bank 
saying what their rate was on the relevant date. I can see why discovering this was so 
disappointing, especially as the money was for charitable purposes. But this doesnt mean 
that WU has done anything wrong. 
As our investigator said, there are no rules requiring WU to offer a good rate. L has 
obviously found their rates in other currencies, such as US dollars and Euros, competitive in 
the past  and this led Ms R to expect them to be good for PKR  but different money 
transfer providers specialise in different currencies. Money transfer providers operate in a 
competitive market, so I dont think L would have found it hard to find another provider if it 
had chosen to do so. And these transfer providers are entitled to make commercial decisions 
about what rates they want to offer at any given time. 
WU told L that they considered PKR an exotic currency, because exchanges rates 
involving PKR are often volatile. WU therefore places a premium on transactions in that 
currency. In contrast, one of the retrospective quotations Ms R supplied was from a 
Pakistani bank, which is likely to be far more used to transacting in that currency and 
therefore likely to offer a more competitive rate in it. 
I dont consider charging a premium for transactions in certain currencies to be unfair, as 
long as the rates are clearly displayed and customers have the chance to shop around if 
they wish to. In this case, Im satisfied that the rate for the transaction was clearly displayed 
on screen before Ms R committed to the transaction. So I think she could have sought other 
quotations at that point if shed chosen to.  
My conclusion is that WU were entitled to set their rate as they chose, as long as they didnt 
mislead L. And I dont think they did mislead L. Were WU responsible for the delays? 
Ive looked carefully at the timeline for this transaction. I can see that three days were lost at 
the outset, because WU needed some additional information, but this was resolved on 
3 May, which was the day the payment left Ls account. 
The payment then had to go through a clearing cycle and some other processes, which 
meant that WU say it couldnt have arrived before 14 May. Ive also seen evidence that the 
payment did in fact arrive with the recipient bank on 14 May. In my view, this is within normal 
timescales for this type of transaction. 
After this, its apparent from the emails being exchanged by all parties, including L, that there 
was a frustrating period when the money had arrived in Pakistan but hadnt been credited to 
the beneficiarys account. 
Im unclear, from what Ive seen, exactly what caused this delay (it may have been 
connected with the need for a Form R completed by the beneficiary). But Im satisfied that 
the evidence shows that this delay was not WUs fault. I say this partly because I can see 
that the money had arrived with the beneficiary bank on 14 May. So it wasnt in WUs 
control. And the evidence also shows that WU, and their agent bank, were actively chasing 
up the whereabouts of the payment with the beneficiarys bank in Pakistan from 16 May up 
until 13 June, when WUs agent was finally able to confirm that the money had been credited 
to the ultimate beneficiary on 23 May. 
For the reasons explained above, I dont think the delays were WUs fault. 
Did WU cause confusion over Form R?
On 15 May, one of WUs staff wrote to L explaining that Pakistani banking regulations 
required a form called a Form R to be completed by the beneficiary. She suggested L liaise 
with the beneficiary to ensure this had been completed, but the email is in my view slightly 
ambiguous, about who needed to originate the Form R. 
Slightly more than an hour later, WU sent a further email to L. Its apparent from this email 
that they had also had a phone conversation with Ms R in the interim. The second email was 
in my opinion much clearer. It ended all that is needed is for your beneficiary to go into his 
branch and complete a Form R for the funds to be released
I think this second email made it clear that the onus was on the beneficiary to go into his 
bank to complete the form. Because this email came relatively quickly after the first, and in 
my view, cleared up any confusion, I dont think WU was responsible for any delays caused 
by the completion of the Form R. 
The completion of the Form R wasnt WUs responsibility, nor was it within their control. I 
think the messages sent show that they were doing as much as I consider reasonable to 
help their customer. Although their first email was somewhat unclear, it was swiftly clarified 
and I dont think it was responsible for the delays. 
Were WU at fault for the way they communicated? 
L is also unhappy that WU communicated with L through the online platform on which the 
transaction was booked, rather than by email, as it had done in the past. I think this relates 
to the period at the start of the transaction, when WU requested further information from L. WU has told us that their system sends an email notification when a new query is entered on 
the platform. L says it didnt get an email and wasnt aware of the query until three days 
later. Although I havent seen evidence of the email, I think its more likely than not to have 
been sent. And in any case, I dont think its unreasonable of WU to communicate via the 
platform on which the payment was requested, even if they havent done so before. This 
was, in any case, a small element of the overall time taken, but I dont think it was WUs 
fault. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I note that Western Union 
International Bank GmbH offered L £100 as a goodwill gesture. I understand this is still 
available and I leave it up to L to get in touch with Western Union International Bank GmbH if 
it wishes to accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman