DRN-2282212
The complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a travel disruption claim on his
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr W was due to fly home from a London airport. But due to a computer
fault affecting French Air Traffic Control (ATC), many flights, including Mr Ws, were
cancelled. Mr Ws airline told him it wouldnt be able to book him onto a new flight for 48
hours. So Mr W arranged a replacement flight with another airline for later that day 
travelling to a regional airport and then taking a train back to London. He made a claim on
the Travel Disruption section of his travel insurance policy for the costs hed incurred.
Lloyds turned down Mr Ws claim. It considered the evidence Mr W had provided, which
included a letter from his airline. This said the flight had been cancelled due to ATC
restrictions. It said while the policy covered closure of airspace, the ATC restrictions hadnt
led to full airspace closure. So it said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr W wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. He argued that the cancellation of many flights
meant that airspace was at least partially closed. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. While he sympathised with
Mr Ws position, he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that the airspace had been closed.
And he noted that some flights had been able to travel as planned. He also thought that
while ATC restrictions hadnt been specifically excluded from cover, they werent something
Lloyds intended to cover. So overall, he thought it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Ws
claim.
Mr W disagreed. He maintained that the airspace was partly closed by the ATC restrictions.
He also felt his flight had been called due to a national or local government directive, which
was covered by the policy. And he still believed that if ATC restrictions werent covered,
there should be a specific exclusion set out in the policy.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr W fairly. I said:
The regulators rules and guidance say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly.
And they mustnt unreasonably turn down claims.
Mr W feels his claim should be paid under the Travel Disruption section of the policy. So Ive
first considered what cover this section of the policy provides. The policy says:
YOU are covered
up to the amount shown in the Table of Benefits per TRIP for reasonable
1. additional ACCOMMODATION;
2. additional transportation costs for YOU to return to YOUR HOME or PLACE OF
BUSINESS by alternative means,
if
1. YOUR flight or other mode of contracted transport is delayed by more than twenty 
four (24) hours from the scheduled time of departure as a result of:
2.
i. fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, volcanic eruption, tsunami, solar flares, avalanche, 
storm, tempest, hurricane, flood, medical epidemic, pandemic, local or national Government 
directive (confirmed in writing by local or national authority), including closure of airspace, 
airport or port from or through which YOU are scheduled to travel;
Mr W did incur additional travel expenses after his flight was cancelled. It also appears it
wouldve been delayed by more than 24 hours. But I dont currently think the circumstances
of Mr Ws claim are covered under this section of the policy. I agree that due to the systems
issues with French ATC, restrictions were placed on flights. Many flights were cancelled and
I dont doubt that there was a real impact on both flights and travellers that day. But while
flights were undoubtedly limited, theres simply no evidence that airspace was closed.
Airports were still open and flights were still able to take off and land. So I cant fairly say
Lloyds should treat ATC restrictions as the closure of airspace.
Ive also considered whether this situation should be treated as the airline acting on a local
or national government directive. Ive looked at the letter from the French aviation regulator.
While it explains whatd happened and the system failure, it simply doesnt suggest that
there was any directive to close airspace.
Mr W feels that if Lloyds doesnt want to cover ATC restrictions, it should clearly exclude
them from policy cover. Ive thought about this. But it seems to me that Lloyds has set out
the events it does want to cover under this section of the policy and these are clear enough.
Were not the industry regulator, so weve no power to tell an insurer to change its policy
terms.
So based on what Ive seen, I currently think it was fair for Lloyds not to pay Mr Ws claim
under the travel disruption section of the policy.
However, Ive also considered the Travel Delay section of the policy. This says:
YOU are covered
1. for compensation as shown in the Table of Benefits in the event that the initial
departure of the aircraft, coach, sea vessel or train in which YOU have arranged
to travel is delayed due to strike, riot, civil commotion, industrial action, adverse
weather conditions, traffic flow congestion or mechanical breakdown;
The table of benefits sets out that £25 will be paid for each eight-hour period of delay.
The evidence from the French aviation regulator explains that the ATC restrictions arose
because of a system failure. This limited the number of flights available. It seems to me that
this could fairly be treated as both a mechanical breakdown of the ATC systems, which led
to delay and traffic flow congestion. Ive noted that the policy doesnt state that mechanical
breakdown has to be of the aircraft itself. So I currently think Mr Ws claim should be dealt
with under this section of the policy.
Mr W says his airline wasnt able to get him onto a replacement flight for 48 hours. So he
arranged his own flight home. Ive explained that I think Mr Ws claim wouldve been covered
by this section of the policy had he waited for a replacement flight and Lloyds wouldve been
liable to pay Mr W for six periods of delay. So it seems to me that the fair and reasonable
outcome here is for Lloyds to pay Mr W the amount hed have been entitled to under the
delay section of the policy if he hadnt returned home early and instead had waited for hisairline to fly him home. Six periods of delay is equal to £150.
So I currently intend to tell Lloyds to pay Mr W this amount for his claim under the travel
delay section of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to consider.
Mr W had nothing more to add.
Lloyds didnt accept my provisional decision. It said the policy wasnt ambiguous and had 
never been intended to cover ATC failure. It didnt feel that the breakdown of an ATC system 
would constitute a mechanical breakdown. It didnt agree that the delay cover should be 
extended to include the mechanical failure of an ATC system. It felt the clause was clear 
about the four modes of transport that would need to be affected by a mechanical 
breakdown for delay cover to apply. None of these had been affected by any of the insured 
events the policy covers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think Mr Ws complaint should be partly upheld and Ill explain why.
I accept that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr Ws claim isnt covered by the 
delay section of the policy. But I can depart from a strict application of the policy if I feel it 
results in an unfair result. And thats my opinion here.
In my view, the failure of the ATC system was broadly akin to a mechanical breakdown of 
the system  regardless of whether it was a mechanical computer or electrical. This in turn 
caused traffic flow congestion and effectively delayed the departure of Mr Ws flight. The 
airline wasnt able to fly him home for another 48 hours. So Im still persuaded that its fair 
and reasonable to consider the claim under the delay section of the policy.
I accept Mr W made his own arrangements to return home, at his own expense. If hed 
remained abroad though, hed have been delayed by 48 hours  equal to six periods of 
delay under the policy terms. So Im still satisfied that the fair outcome to Mr Ws complaint is 
for Lloyds to pay his claim in line with the delay section of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ws complaint in part.
I direct Society of Lloyds to pay Mr Ws claim under the travel delay section of the policy, 
based on a 48-hour period of delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman