DRN-3160634
The complaint
Mr R has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down his business interruption 
insurance claim after his business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr R held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. Mr R claimed on his policy after 
his business was impacted in March 2020 by the Governments actions in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
HDI said the policy didnt cover Mr Rs claim because, while the policy covered closure by a 
public authority as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, Mr Rs business had been 
closed by the Governments response to the pandemic.
Unhappy with HDIs response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He said there had 
been a number of people at his business premises who had been required to self-isolate but 
were unable to provide evidence of a positive test for Covid-19 due to a lack of testing at the 
time. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think Mr R had shown it was mostly likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at his business 
premises.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said his business was required 
to close to stop the spread of Covid-19 which demonstrated that his business closed due to 
a notifiable occurrence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised other complaint points with HDI, and I understand he has made separate 
claims for separate periods of closure. In this decision, I am only commenting on HDIs 
decision to turn down Mr Rs claim which commenced in March 2020. 
The relevant part of the extension within Mr Rs policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall 
be notified to them
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Mr Rs claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
I appreciate that Mr R is aware of a number of people who had symptoms of Covid-19 being 
at his business premises. However, I havent seen anything apart from his testimony to 
support this. And in this particular case, that isnt enough for me to find that there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at Mr Rs premises. I understand that Mr Rs business was required 
to close to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but Im afraid that isnt covered by this extension 
as I dont think hes shown there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at his premises. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay Mr Rs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman