DRN-3049192
The complaint
Mr S complains Bamboo Limited unfairly registered a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr S was accepted for a loan with Bamboo in July 2018. The loan was for £5,000 over a 
term of 60 months. The repayments were around £243 a month and the loan had a total 
repayable value of around £14,500 once interest was added.
In August 2019 Bamboo agreed to a reduced payment arrangement for three months after 
assessing Mr Ss financial circumstances. Because Mr S wasnt making his contractual 
payments, arrears built up on his loan. 
Bamboo issued Mr S with a default notice in November 2019. This said a default would be 
registered if the arrears went over 180 days. It also contacted Mr S as the arrangement had 
ended. Mr S said he had an arrangement in place; and didnt provide Bamboo with a new 
income and expenditure form for it to review a further arrangement. As such, Bamboo didnt 
collect payments in November or December 2019, and the arrears continued to build. 
In February 2020 Bamboo defaulted Mr Ss loan and registered a default on his credit file. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service when it couldnt be resolved with Bamboo. Mr S 
didnt think Bamboo had acted fairly by registering the default on his credit file and that his 
job was at risk because of the default.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Bamboo 
had made Mr S aware arrears would continue to build on the loan while he was in a payment 
arrangement; and if the arrears exceeded 180 days it would be defaulted. He said Bamboo 
had a duty to report accurate information about the loan to credit reference agencies; and 
that by defaulting the loan Bamboo froze further interest and charges that would have built 
up, preventing Mr Ss outstanding balance from increasing further. 
Bamboo didnt respond to our investigators assessment. Mr S responded and let us know 
he didnt agree. He said our investigator hadnt considered all the evidence and had sided 
with Bamboo. Mr S also asked whether the affordability of the loan had been considered.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ss points and confirmed his conclusions remained the 
same. He set up a new complaint for the affordability of the loan as Bamboo hadnt 
previously had the opportunity to investigate it. 
As a resolution couldnt be reached on this complaint it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The emails between Mr S and Bamboo from July and August 2019 set out that the agreed 
payment arrangement was in place until October 2019. They also said Bamboo would 
contact Mr S after that to review his financial circumstances; and that a default would be 
registered if the arrears went over 180 days. Im satisfied Bamboo gave Mr S clear, fair and 
not misleading information about the arrangement it had agreed and what would happen 
once it had ended.
Bamboo contacted Mr S once the arrangement had ended. Mr S responded and said he had 
an arrangement in place which hed been meeting. And he didnt provide Bamboo with new 
income and expenditure details. After this Bamboo looked to contact Mr S on a handful of 
occasions, each without success. 
I think Bamboo should have attempted to contact Mr S more frequently than it did once the 
arrangement had ended. It doesnt appear to have done more than call Mr S  and it could 
have sent text messages and emails to look to arrange payment. However, on balance I 
dont think successful contact would have led to a different outcome in the circumstances. I 
say this because any payments below the contractual amount would lead to arrears building. 
And from the evidence of payments before and after this point, I think its likely Mr S wouldnt 
have been able to meet the contractual payments in these months.
Mr S contacted Bamboo in January 2020 to query why previous payments hadnt been 
taken. He asked what he could do to stop a default being registered; and explained he didnt 
have available funds to make a payment in line with the previous arrangement at that point. 
Given Mr Ss comments, I consider it strongly suggests he wasnt in a position to reduce any 
of the arrears on the loan at this point in time either. This is what Bamboo had already told 
Mr S was needed to stop the default being registered. And Bamboo had a duty to report 
accurate information to credit reference agencies.
When Bamboo defaulted Mr Ss loan in February 2020 the level of arrears was over £1,500 
and it had been in arrears over 180 days. While Bamboo needed to treat Mr S fairly when it 
became aware of his financial difficulties, that doesnt mean it could let the loan continue 
building arrears indefinitely. Bamboo gave Mr S over 180 days to bring his account back in 
line with the terms of the agreement  or look to reduce the arrears. It seems quite clear 
from Mr Ss communication in January 2020 that his financial circumstances hadnt improved 
 and werent likely to improve in the short term. By defaulting the loan Bamboo stopped 
further arrears from building and further interest and charges being added. It had already 
clearly set out to Mr S on several occasions what would happen if the arrears went over 180 
days.
Mr S has said other lenders worked with him in coming to arrangements and didnt register 
defaults on his credit file. I dont know that the circumstances  like the type of credit, 
balances and level of arrears  were the same with Mr Ss other lenders. So, I cant 
conclude Bamboos actions were unreasonably in comparison. But, taking account of the 
individual circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Bamboo acted fairly when registering 
the default and I dont consider it needs to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr S, but I hope my findings are helpful in 
explaining why Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint 
about Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman