DRN-2677757
The complaint
Ms L, on behalf of her company D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money 
lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2017 Ms L fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
Ms L attempted to make a payment for £5,260 on 20 March 2017, to a contractor that D 
owed money to. Ms L has said the bank details, for where the payment needed to be made, 
were received by email. As this was a payment to a new payee, the payment wasnt 
progressed straight away  Lloyds has explained that where a new payee is set up, it is 
normal procedure for a delay of 60 minutes to be built in, to allow customers adequate time 
in which to verify bank details.
However, in the meantime and while the initial payment was pending, Ms L received a 
further email, from who she thought was the genuine contractor, providing different bank 
details for where the payment needed to be made. Believing this to be legitimate and as the 
money was due, Ms L changed the payment details to the new details provided and went 
ahead with the payment, through online banking. The following day, Ms L realised something 
was wrong and contacted Lloyds. Unknown to her at the time, fraudsters had intercepted the 
emails and she had made the payment to a fraudster.
Lloyds has said that it blocked the receiving account, which was also held with Lloyds, but 
unfortunately no funds remained.
Ms L complained to Lloyds. In summary she said Lloyds had been grossly negligent and had 
facilitated the fraud. Ms L said that Lloyds should have noticed that the payee name she 
gave in her instruction was completely different from the actual payee name on the account 
the funds had been sent to.
Lloyds issued its final response on 28 August 2019. It said there had been no reason for it to 
have prevented Ms L from making the payment, it was within the permitted daily limits for 
online banking and the activity was not out of the ordinary for the account. It said it had tried 
to retrieve the funds, but no funds remained. It added that there was no process in place at 
the time to check that payees matched.
Ms L then brought the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds could have done anything to prevent the scam  
he didnt consider the payment Ms L made was so unusual that it should have raised Lloyds 
suspicions. And he didnt think Lloyds missed an opportunity to identify the payment could 
potentially have been in relation to a scam. Our investigator said there was no requirement 
for Lloyds to consider the beneficiary name when the payment was made.
Ms L didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, she said there was only one bank 
involved and it seems fair and reasonable to suggest that Lloyds could have easily 
prevented the fraud. Ms L said there was a mis-match between the name she was intending 
to pay and the name of the account holder she actually paid. Ms L said if Lloyds had 
checked, this would have been brought to her attention and the payment instruction would 
have been stopped.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms L, and I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully about 
Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Ms Ls 
business account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover 
the money.
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Ms Ls complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should 
reimburse the £5,260 D has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
- the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty); and
- regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have takenproactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
D, when Ms L made a transfer to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Ms L authorised the transfer of £5,260 herself. Because of this, Lloyds had an obligation to 
follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that 
as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
Having reviewed the activity on Ds business account statements, from which the payment 
was made, for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment made 
to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal 
account activity. There are several other transactions, including faster payments, for 
amounts in excess of £1,000 and the payment didnt clear an unusual amount off of the 
account balance. So I dont think a faster payment for £5,260 was particularly out of 
character or unusual and Im not persuaded Lloyds acted unreasonably in not making 
enquiries about the payment before processing it.
Ive thought about what Ms L has said about the receiving bank account being in a different 
name, to what Ms L had indicated on her payment instruction.
At the time the payment was made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique 
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section 90 of the PSR 2017 states:
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified 
by the unique identifier
The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the accountnumber and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement for 
Lloyds to check the beneficiary account any further. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds didnt 
follow Ms Ls instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary name 
in the circumstances of this payment.
I do appreciate Ms L has commented and asked why Confirmation of Payee, was not 
implemented several years ago. But our service is an informal dispute resolution one  we 
are not the regulator for the financial industry. And its not for us to comment on Ms Ls 
industrywide concern, thats a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority.
Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds did what it shouldve done once Ms L reported to 
it that shed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Lloyds made to recover 
the money, once Ms L reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Lloyds to 
refund the money to Ms L, I need to be satisfied that Lloyds should have acted sooner in 
trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference.
In this case Lloyds wasnt able to recover the money Ms L had paid the fraudster, because it 
had already been removed from the recipients account. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded 
Lloyds did what it should have and didnt miss an opportunity to recover any funds.
Its very unfortunate Ms L has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should have done more to prevent D from 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ds complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman