DRN-1579122
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the valuation that Ageas Insurance Limited placed on her car after it 
was deemed a total loss. 
What happened
Mrs C has motor insurance for her car with Ageas. In early 2019, she made a claim on her 
policy after an accident. Ageas considered the car to be a total loss so, in accordance with 
the terms of her policy, they offered to pay her the market value of the car at the time of the 
loss. The market value they offered was £5,937.50.
Mrs C doesn't think that the valuation they've reached is fair. She says that she's unable to 
buy a replacement car of a similar make and model, with the same specifications and 
mileage, for the amount they've offered. She also thinks that the valuation doesn't take into 
account regional variations, as it seems to be more expensive to buy this model of car in her 
local area.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and decided that the valuation offered by Ageas 
was fair. He said that they'd looked at a number of nationally recognised guides and had 
made an offer that was broadly in line with these. So he didn't think they should increase it.
Mrs C didn't accept our investigator's opinion, so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules, in ICOBS 8.1,  say that an insurer must handle a claim promptly 
and fairly. Mrs C doesn't think that Ageas have handled this claim fairly, because the value 
they've offered is too low. So that's what I need to decide on.
Mrs C says that she's unable to buy a suitable replacement car for the amount that 
Ageas have offered her. And she's provided screenshots from online sales websites, 
advertising higher prices for this make and model of car.
But we don't generally consider advertised prices to be a reliable way to assess the market 
value of a vehicle. These prices often leave room for negotiation, so they tend to be higher 
than the final selling price. For this reason, we feel that the retail prices listed in vehicle 
valuation guides are more reliable. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely selling prices. 
In this case, Ageas looked at three valuation guides when reaching their valuation: Glass's, 
Cap and Parkers. We also checked a fourth guide, Cazana. The four retail prices from these 
guides were: £5,525; £5,650; £5,860 and £6,282. These were calculated based on the 
specific model, age and mileage of Mrs C's car. The average of these valuations is around 
£5,830.I appreciate that Mrs C says her local area seems to be more expensive for buying this 
make and model of car. But the valuation guides are the most reliable tool we have for 
assessing market value. And I'm more persuaded by these than the online sales 
advertisements.
Ageas calculated a market value of £5,937.50. When taking into account the retail prices 
from the guides above, I think that the valuation Ageas reached is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mrs C's complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman