DRN-3375841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Santander UK PLC wrongly declined their personal loan 
application as its affordability checks incorrectly factored in business debts belonging to a 
company with which they are no longer involved.
What happened
Mr K used to hold shares in a company, which Ill refer to as N. N banked with Santander. 
Mr K sold his shares in N in 2013 and has had no involvement with the company since.
Mr Ks name remained on the mandate for the bank account N held with Santander until 
March 2021. Mr K says that this is despite several attempts to remove his name from the 
account over the years since he stepped back from the company.
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs K applied to Santander for a personal loan. The bank declined 
their application. 
Mr K says that when discussing Santanders decision to decline the application with a 
member of staff, he was told that the banks affordability checks had factored in business 
lending through the Bounce Back Loan Scheme taken out by N. So he complained to 
Santander, reiterating that he no longer had any connection to N.
Santander confirmed that it hadnt removed Mr K from its records of Ns Bounce Back Loan 
when updating the account mandate in March. It said it had now corrected this and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused, for which it also paid Mr K 
compensation of £150.
Mr K was still unhappy as he thought that the mix-up with the Bounce Back Loan had 
affected his personal loan application, so he asked us to look into things. Santander 
reviewed its decision and told us that the Bounce Back Loan wouldnt have affected it.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
shed reviewed the basis of Santanders decision and could see that it had declined the 
application on affordability grounds without reference to any business lending. And while she 
noted Mr Ks unhappiness with how long it had taken Santander to remove his name from 
Ns records, she explained that we couldnt look into this aspect of things as Mr K wasnt 
eligible to refer a complaint about matters relating to N.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He remained certain that the loan application was 
only declined because Santander concluded that it wouldnt be affordable after factoring in 
the business lending to which his name was still mistakenly attached. He also didnt think the 
application wouldve reached the stage it had if it was obvious that it wasnt affordable on a 
personal level alone. 
So Mr K asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should confirm the scope of what we can consider in the context of this complaint. 
As our investigator correctly explained, were unable to look at the issues relating to Ns 
bank account or Bounce Back Loan. That is because Mr and Mrs K arent eligible, under our 
rules, to complain about Ns accounts or about matters arising out of Ns relationship with 
Santander. They are only eligible to complain about matters arising out of their own 
relationship with the bank. And in the context of this complaint, that extends only to their 
personal loan application.
Looking at the personal loan application, the evidence I have supports Santanders position 
that the Bounce Back Loan had no bearing on its decision to decline it. 
Santander has explained that the loan application was system declined after failing its 
affordability checks. It has provided us with a detailed breakdown of the factors taken into 
account, showing each of Mr and Mrs Ks existing debts and monthly payments  and 
demonstrated why these meant the application didnt meet the banks criteria. This 
breakdown doesnt include any debts belonging to N. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ks 
application didnt meet the banks criteria for legitimate reasons  and was therefore 
correctly declined. 
I also dont think the fact that the application got to the stage it did suggests that Santander 
made an error, as Mr K has suggested. That the application was ultimately declined on 
affordability grounds isnt something that ought necessarily to have been picked up at an 
earlier stage  with such decisions often left for underwriters and other specialist 
departments.
I can see how some confusion may have come about as to the explanation of Santanders 
rationale. Evidently, Mr Ks name was incorrectly attached to Ns Bounce Back Loan. This 
was only rectified after he queried the banks decision to decline his loan application  when 
he says he was told that the business lending had been a factor. And Ive no reason to doubt 
what he says about that. But ultimately, Santander has shown that the application didnt 
meet its criteria when factoring in only Mr and Mrs Ks personal financial commitments and 
not those of N. So even if there was any miscommunication here  or indeed even if the 
bank had factored any of Ns debts into its assessment at an earlier stage  the end result 
would always have been the same.
So taking all of this into account, and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K as I 
understand their strength of feeling over this matter, I dont think that Santander did anything 
wrong in declining to offer them the loan they were seeking. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 Ben Jennings
Ombudsman