DRN-4423744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M and Mrs H complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd, trading as Sterling, wont 
make a payment to a beneficiary as its done in the past. Zurich says it needs to either make 
payment to the trustees bank account, or the trustees need to complete a deed of 
irrevocable appointment.
Mr and Mrs M and Mrs H bring their complaint in their capacity as trustees of a discretionary 
trust. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to 
everything as if its been said by the trustees.
What happened
An investment bond is held in a discretionary trust with Zurich. In the past, the trustees have 
given partial surrender instructions and requested the proceeds are paid to a beneficiarys 
bank account. Zurich had always acted on those instructions. But, in or around September 
2022, when the trustees requested a further partial surrender, Zurich wouldnt pay the 
proceeds directly to the beneficiarys account. It said it could only proceed with the surrender 
and payment if the trustees completed a deed of irrevocable appointment of beneficial 
interest. When the trustees complained, Zurich said its procedures had changed and it could 
only make payment direct to a beneficiary if the deed was completed. Alternatively, it could 
make payment to the trustees bank account.
The trustees told us the deed would transfer tax liability from the settlor to the beneficiary, 
that there was no legal requirement for a deed to be completed, and there didnt seem to be 
a business need either. They want Zurich to act on its instructions, as its done in the past; 
compensation for the beneficiary being unable to spend the money as planned; and for the 
additional legal fees the trustees have incurred.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Zurich had acted unfairly and that it wasnt unreasonable for payment to be made to the 
trustees bank account.
The trustees didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Zurich previously made payments direct to the beneficiarys bank account. But it reviewed its 
procedures and introduced a new process. I dont find that Zurich is obliged to do something, 
just because its done it that way in the past. Particularly where it reasonably decides its 
procedures need to be more robust. But I wouldnt expect any change in procedure to be 
unreasonably onerous on the trustees, unless it is required for regulatory or legal reasons.
Zurich says that, because the trust is discretionary, there are a number of potential 
beneficiaries. By making payment directly to one of those beneficiaries, theres a risk that 
individual wasnt entitled to the money. Whilst I think that risk is relatively small, because 
Zurich is taking instructions from the trustees, I agree that risk does exist. So I dont find its 
unreasonable that Zurich changed its processes to mitigate that risk.
Zurichs surrender instruction form did include the option to pay a beneficiary direct to a 
bank account. And the trustees had, as with past payments, chosen this option. So I can 
understand their frustration when Zurich wouldnt follow those instructions. 
Whilst a deed of irrevocable appointment may not be a legal necessity, it can be advisable 
as it provides evidence of who assets have been transferred to and when they were 
transferred. So I dont find it unreasonable that Zurich now requires a deed to be completed 
before it will pay a beneficiary direct. And Zurich has prepared a deed, so I dont think whats 
required is particularly onerous for the trustees.
The trustees say that completing the deed will transfer any tax liability on surrender of the 
bond to on the beneficiary, rather than the settlor. Im aware Zurich initially gave the trustees 
incorrect advice about this. But it did apologise for giving the wrong information. And, as the 
deed hasnt been completed, I dont find the wrong information has led to any financial loss 
which needs to be redressed.
If the trustees are concerned about the tax liability, the alternative is that the money can be 
paid to the trustees.
The trustees told us they dont have a bank account. And theyve explained, in some detail, 
why they are unwilling to do so  in summary, because of the time, inconvenience and 
possible costs involved, and that it shouldnt be required.
But, when the trustees first applied to set up the trust with Zurich, they should have 
reasonably been aware of the need to set up a bank account. Thats because the guidance 
which accompanied the application said:
A trustee bank account should be established to receive any withdrawals.
Im not persuaded that opening an account is particularly time-consuming and it shouldnt 
involve any costs. I fully understand the trustees frustration that this hasnt been required in 
the past. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Zurichs change in procedures to be 
unreasonable and I dont find its treated the trustees unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, Mr M and 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman