DRN-3799032
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with delays he says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) caused when he 
applied for a new mortgage product.
What happened
Mr B held a fixed rate mortgage with Barclays that was due to expire on 1 May 2022. In 
February 2022, he approached Barclays to arrange a new mortgage product before his rate 
expired. Mr B wanted to borrow an additional £60,000 for home renovations at the same 
time. 
Mr Bs new mortgage didnt complete until the end of May 2022, around a month after he 
moved onto a variable interest rate. Mr B says Barclays took too long to produce the offer 
and he had to spend hours phoning and emailing Barclays to chase it. Mr B says Barclays 
had previously confirmed he would receive the additional funds by 1 May 2022, so he had 
arranged to pay his builders by then. But, as Barclays had caused unnecessary delays, Mr B 
says he incurred a £1,000 fine when he couldnt pay, and his builders walked out.
During this time, Mr B says he raised a complaint but had to repeat his request three times 
before it was logged in May 2022. So, as a result of the delays and level of service he 
received, Mr B thinks the mortgage fee he paid of £999 should be refunded as well as the 
additional interest he paid while his rate was variable. Mr B says the whole thing has caused 
him significant stress and has had an impact on other areas of his life. 
Barclays has looked into Mr Bs concerns and said as he wanted to borrow further funds, it 
was not as simple as a rate switch. A full application was required including, payslips to be 
assessed, the property surveyed and an underwriter to review the application. Barclays says 
this can take anything between 6 and 10 weeks to complete. 
Barclays says the application took 10 weeks from the date the application was made, on 
8 March 2022, which is in line with its expectations. It said there was no evidence of any 
delays during this period. But, as a result of initial delays in submitting the application, the 
mortgage adviser Mr B dealt with had already offered to refund the additional interest Mr B 
paid when his rate became variable. And Barclays has agreed to honour the offer. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns and they thought Barclays offer was fair. As 
Mr B disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
As Ive said above, Mr B says his mortgage should have completed by 1 May 2022, and 
because it didnt, he incurred a fine and paid additional interest he otherwise wouldnt have 
had to pay. Mr B thinks Barclays should compensate him for his financial loss and refund his 
mortgage application fee in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about this carefully, but I dont think Barclays could have guaranteed Mr B would 
receive his additional funds by 1 May 2022. Although Barclays may have indicated this was 
the anticipated completion time, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr B to know this 
was an estimate and that it would be a risk to agree to a contract that may result in a fine if 
broken. Mr B chose to make a commitment with the funds before he had actually received 
them, and I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for that. 
Mr B was increasing the mortgage on his property by £60,000, that meant his application 
had to go through full checks. While Barclays says this usually takes between 6 and 10 
weeks, from what Ive seen, it actually took around 12 weeks from the date the application 
was submitted for Mr B to receive the funds. So, its clear the application took slightly longer 
than expected, but I dont consider two more weeks a significant delay. So, I dont think 
Barclays needs to refund Mr Bs mortgage fee. 
I know there was also a slight delay in the mortgage adviser submitting Mr Bs application at 
the start. And I appreciate Mr B says he had to phone and email Barclays to chase the 
progress of his application throughout, but considering the delays as a whole, I think 
Barclays offer to refund the additional interest Mr B paid while he was on a variable rate is 
fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr B may be expecting more, but as Ive said above, the 
funds were paid later the same month Mr B was told he would receive them, so I dont think 
the delays Mr B experienced were significant and the offer Barclays has made reflects that.
I understand Mr B is also unhappy with how his complaint was handled, specifically that he 
doesnt think it was logged when it should have been, and he didnt receive an answer on 
time.  But complaints about complaint handling do not fall under our remit. The Financial 
Conduct Authority sets out what complaints we can and cant consider in its Dispute 
Resolution Handbook. Under Disp 2.3, it explains that this service can only look into 
complaints about financial services provided by the business. This does not include how it 
handles complaints.
So, Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but I havent found that Barclays caused a 
significant delay with his mortgage application, and the offer its made to compensate Mr B 
for taking slightly longer than usual is fair in the circumstances. Mr B can now decide 
whether he wants to accept Barclays offer as set out below. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC has agreed to:
Compensate Mr B with a refund of the additional interest he paid while he was on a 
variable interest rate.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint, but if Mr B now wants to 
accept Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer he can.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman