DRN-2852080
The complaint
Mr A complains that St James's Place Investment Administration Limited repeatedly failed to 
provide the information that his accountant requested over a prolonged period of time, 
resulting in him accumulating more than £2,000 in unnecessary fees.
What happened
 On 10 January 2020 Mr B, (Mr As accountant) wrote to SJP with authority from Mr A to 
request details about his Unit Trust, including his income and tax as well as a consolidated 
tax certificate for the financial year 2018/19; full details of any income received in the 
financial year 2018/19 and details of the investments held on his behalf as at 5 April 2019; 
plus full details of transactions carried out on Mr As behalf in the year to 5 April 2019.
SJP failed to positively respond to these requests despite Mr Bs numerous attempts to 
contact it.
After Mr B wrote to SJP it responded on 22 January saying it couldnt locate the requested 
information as the details provided didnt match its records. Mr B wrote to SJP a total of 
six times thereafter via email and letter to re-request this information, before eventually 
speaking with someone in September 2020.
During these conversations in September and in a follow-up email, SJP explained that it 
was unable to provide tax certificates for the Unit Trust for the financial years 2018/19 and 
2019/20 as the Unit Trust was no longer in force in these tax years. It explained it had been 
set up to feed into Mr As ISA with the last sum transferred to the ISA in April 2017. It 
explained there were also no chargeable gain certificates for the ISA across these years.
In its final response, SJP said it had also been unable to provide the requested 
information to Mr B since the Unit Trust account was closed. It explained that when an 
account is no longer operational it was unable to hold third party information and cant 
relay information about the account to anyone other than the account holder.
In his complaint to this service, Mr A said SJP should compensate him for him 
accountants costs as well as those incurred through having to bring a complaint to our 
service, which he was doing via throughout the complaint
investigation).
An investigator at this service accepted SJPs explanation for why it was unable to provide 
the requested information to Mr B but felt it would have been reasonable to have expected 
it to have contacted Mr A directly to explain this. Alternatively, it could have explained to Mr 
B that it was unable to provide the requested information  or indeed any information - 
because this account was closed. Instead it wrongly said it was because the details 
provided didnt match its records.
Given this, she felt that if SJP had provided the correct explanation early on, a lot of the 
correspondence back and forth could have been avoided.
However, while she thought SJP ought to compensate Mr A for the inconvenience it had 
caused, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to directly compensate for the costs incurred through 
use of an accountant. While Mr B has said that Mr A preferred to use an accountant 
because he was elderly and so it seemed sensible to have a professional dealing with SJP 
on his behalf, there was nothing to suggest that Mr A was unable to deal with SJP directly. 
As such, it was simply Mr As choice to employ an accountant to obtain information on his 
behalf.
She said she also wouldnt expect SJP to compensate Mr A for the costs incurred as a 
result of employing Mr B to bring a complaint to this service on his behalf. This is because 
we do not require the use a professional representative to bring complaints to us.
As a result, she recommended that SJP pay Mr A £200 in lieu of the inconvenience 
caused by its failure to advise his representative, Mr B, correctly in the first place. She felt 
this level of award was fair bearing in mind the length of time this issue went on for  just 
under nine months in total - and the fact that SJP had more than one opportunity to rectify 
the issue.
SJP did not response to the investigators View. 
Mr B, on behalf of Mr A, did not agree and said:
Mr A is elderly and has no experience in these matters (having worked with 
his hands). If he had not employed someone to act on his behalf, this would 
have resulted in further confusion, delay and ongoing upset to Mr A
The investigator asked for a breakdown of his, Mr Bs fees, showing each of the 
occasions on which he had contacted SJP and what he charged for this. Why do 
this if she didnt intend to consider this issue of his accountants costs? Also, this 
in itself resulted in Mr A incurring further costs as Mr B spent a considerable 
amount of time preparing the documentation she had requested
This indicates the ombudsman service was incompetent and is therefore 
responsible for these extra incurred fees
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
From what I have read, there is no disagreement about the facts and the relevant timeline. 
SJP has had ample opportunity to query the investigators account and has not done so. I 
am therefore satisfied that she fairly and accurately outlined SJPs failure to respond 
and/or respond promptly with accurate and helpful information.
I also agree that but for SJPs failings there would have been no need for Mr As 
accountant to spend time and Mr As money in pursuing this issue. As such, many of Mr 
Bs costs flowed directly from SJPs failure to provide prompt, accurate information and/or 
a full explanation for why it could not provide the requested information. I am therefore 
satisfied that it should be held responsible for these costs.
It was Mr As choice to employ an accountant to write to SJP in the first place so I dont 
accept SJP should refund this cost. However, given the request was clear and included the 
correct authorisation to act on Mr As behalf, I believe SJP ought reasonably to have 
responded immediately., either explaining that Mr As investment was no longer in force 
and therefore it did not have the relevant information or that it could only disclose details to 
Mr A personally  and have then done so.
If it had done either of these things, Mr A would not have needed to incur any further costs.So, while Mr A did not need to employ a paid representative in order to bring a complaint 
to this service, it is entirely understandable that he did given Mr B had dealt with 
everything from the outset. The fact that he needed to bring a complaint flows directly from 
SJPs failings, which it failed to fully recognise (or offer compensation for) in its final 
response letter. So, I do believe it should compensate Mr A for the costs involved in the 
initial referral to this service.
I understand and sympathise with Mr As dissatisfaction with having to incur further costs 
as a result of being asked to get his accountant to provide a detailed breakdown of his 
fees, particularly given the investigator did not then consider that SJP should reimburse 
any of these. But, in order to fully investigate a complaint, investigators and ombudsmen 
often ask for further information to ensure every facet of a case is fully explored. They may 
reasonably subsequently decide that such extra information is either not relevant or doesnt 
materially affect their overall view of the complaint.
That said, if Mr A remains unhappy about this matter, he is entitled to complain to the 
independent assessor who will look at this issue afresh. Mr A of his representative can 
contact her at independent.assessor@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Having analysed the breakdown of Mr Bs fees, I am satisfied that SJP is responsible for 
roughly £750 plus VAT of such fees. I therefore currently intend to instruct it to pay £900 in 
lieu of such fees. I also agree that it should pay Mr A £200 in lieu of the lengthy period of 
uncertainty during which he had no idea what his tax liability was likely to be (due to SJPs 
failings) and e including liaising with his accountant.
St Jamess accepted my proposed compensation.
Mr As representative did not, and said:
The overall time costs figure is of course now materially in excess of the initial figure 
of over £2,000, further time having necessarily been incurred in correspondence with 
the ombudsman
Restricting the claim only to the initial referral to FOS is inappropriate
The Ombudsman has seemingly rejected that his own service has itself been in 
some respects incompetent (even though the investigator accepted that there was a 
degree of incompetence in relation to the unnecessary requests for completion of 
complaint forms when such forms had already been submitted
I accept that FOS are obliged, in order to attend properly to a complaint, to request 
further information  consequently, such FOS requests for further information surely 
become part and parcel of the submission of the complaint to FOS, such that the 
time costs arising from supplying that further information should not be restricted
Furthermore, those requests for further information, ipso facto, must include the 
provision of a detailed breakdown of fees
I would respectfully suggest that the entirety of the costs involved in the referral to 
your service (and the necessary resultant time costs in providing further information 
should be required to be paid by SJP
I consider that the items from 16 April 2020 onwards, on that Schedule, fall within the 
category of submitting the case to FOS (and attending to correspondence arising 
therefrom)
The net time costs thus allowable, per that Schedule, are £1,710. A further £585 
(net) time costs have however arisen after 30 March 2021, and hence the total net 
time costs from 16 April 2020 to date are £2,295.00 (the VAT-inclusive time costs 
thus being £2,754.00)
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge that Mr As representative appears to accept my view that 
compensation for the work involved in complaining to St Jamess should be based on its 
failures after the initial complaint letter i.e. not for the original letter. I am satisfied that this is 
fair as it is only as a result of St Jamess failing to response promptly or appropriately that I 
feel Mr A had an understandable need to employ someone to act on his behalf.
Given, St Jamess very poor and belated responses to Mr As complaint, I also think it was 
reasonable for Mr A to employ his same representative to prepare and present his complaint 
to this service. Hence, my proposed compensation is designed to cover this outlay.
I still do not believe it is fair or appropriate to expect St Jamess to pay for Mr As expenditure 
in liaising with us. Our website makes clear that there is no need for complainants to be 
represented and that we will undertake all the investigations necessary. 
As a service, we do on occasion feel it is right for a business to pay the costs of a 
complainants representative throughout the complaints process including liaising with us. 
But this is the exception not the rule and typically when complex financial calculations or 
considerations are involved. 
In Mr As case, this clearly isnt a factor. St Jamess eventually provided the information and 
explained why it did not have key information requested. So Mr As complaint to this service 
was a simple one: that St Jamess should pay his representatives costs incurred as a result 
of St Jamess failure to respond (something I have agreed with). It did not require him to 
seek and pay for specialist help to make such a complaint.
That said, if as Mr A alleges, we ourselves were responsible for unnecessary delays or 
asked for unnecessary information, it cannot be right for St Jamess to be held financially 
responsible for these.
As the investigator explained, there is a separate process for complaints about our service 
including an independent assessor who has the power to award compensation, where she 
considers this appropriate.
So, if Mr A believes this service is responsible for some of the fees hes incurred, he needs 
to complaint to the independent assessor about this via the contact details described above.
Putting things right
I instruct St James's Place Investment Administration Limited to pay Mr A £900 plus £200 for 
the trouble and inconvenience caused by this whole saga.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct St James's Place Investment Administration Limited to 
pay Mr A £1,100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman