DRN-1844695
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Society of Lloyds declined her travel insurance claim. My references to 
Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
Mrs L, her husband and two children are insured through travel insurance she has with her 
employer. They were due to fly abroad long-haul and have a stopover holiday for two days in 
another country. Their flight from the UK was delayed by 31 hours due to a technical failure 
of the aircraft. The airline arranged another flight and they lost their two day stopover 
holiday.
Mrs L claimed for the cost of the hotel accommodation she hadnt been able to use in the 
stopover country. Shed paid the cost in advance and the hotel wouldnt refund it.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said there was no cover for those costs under the policy in the 
circumstances. It paid £300 as the travel delay benefit under the policy.
Mrs L complained to us. She said her family missed their entire holiday in the stopover 
country so it was a cancelled holiday as well as a cancelled flight, which the policy should 
cover. She added that the £300 delay benefit covered the additional meal and taxi costs she 
incurred in the UK due to the flight delay, not the hotel costs.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold this complaint in part. 
I said:
Ive had a look at the cancellation section of the policy and I dont think Mrs Ls hotel 
accommodation costs are covered under that section. The policy gives cover for cancellation 
charges as a result of:
the necessary and unavoidable cancellation or rearrangement of YOUR TRIP (in its entirety) 
due to specific, sudden, unforeseen and verifiable circumstances, totally beyond YOUR 
control during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
But the cancellation section also says cancellation cover ends on the commencement of 
YOUR TRIP.
The words in capital letters are defined by the policy. The definition of trip includes that it 
begins and ends at your HOME or PLACE OF BUSINESS and home is defined as YOUR 
residence at YOUR usual PLACE OF DOMICILE.
So I think the cancellation cover ended when Mrs Ls trip started which is when she left 
home to go the airport. Thats not unusual in travel insurance policies.I think the Travel delay and abandonment section of the policy is the right section 
for Lloyds to have assessed Mrs Ls claim under. Shed started her trip, got to the airport on 
time and missed her stopover holiday because of the flight delay.
 The Travel delay and abandonment section of the policy says:
'SECTION 12  TRAVEL DELAY AND ABANDONMENT
YOU are covered
1. for compensation as shown in the Table of Benefits in the event that the initial departure 
of the aircraft, coach, sea vessel or train in which YOU have arranged to travel is delayed 
due to strike, riot, civil commotion, industrial action, adverse weather conditions, traffic flow 
congestion or mechanical breakdown;
2. up to the final invoiced paid costs of the TRIP not exceeding the amount stated in the 
Table of Benefits if YOU decide to abandon YOUR outward TRIP after a delay of at least the 
period shown in the Table of Benefits.
The period of delay will be calculated from the time shown in the official travel itinerary as 
supplied to YOU. If the flight on which YOU were booked is cancelled, the period of delay 
will be calculated using the actual departure time of the flight on which YOU travelled or the 
first flight offered to YOU on which YOU could have travelled, whichever is the sooner or, if 
YOU did not continue the TRIP, the time of cancellation.
YOU may CLAIM compensation under Sections 12.1 or 12.2 but not both'.
This means that, under section 12.1, if Mrs Ls flight is delayed due to mechanical 
breakdown each person insured will receive travel delay benefit of £25 for each complete 
eight hours delayed. So Lloyds calculation of the travel delay benefit at £300 is correct as 
Mrs L and her family were delayed for a total of 31 hours.
However, section 12.2 of the policy, with information from the Table of Benefits, also says 
Mrs L could abandon her holiday after eight hours delay, with a cover limit of £5,000 per 
person.
As Mrs L was delayed for more than eight hours she could have abandoned the whole trip. If 
she had done, under section 12.2 above she would have been covered for the final invoiced 
paid costs of the trip up to the cover limit. So, by choosing not to abandon, waiting for a later 
flight and going on a shorter trip Mrs L kept the loss that she could claim from Lloyd's to the 
minimum.
In this situation I think its fair and reasonable for the insurer to cover the unused 
paid invoiced costs up to the value of any abandonment claim. Mrs Ls hotel costs, which I 
understand are £660.51, are less than Lloyds would have had to pay if Mrs L 
had abandoned the whole trip. The fair outcome is for Lloyds to pay Mrs Ls claim for the 
hotel costs plus interest as Ive detailed below.
The policy says Mrs L may claim travel delay benefit or for abandonment, not both. So its 
fair for Lloyds to deduct the £300 its already paid in travel delay benefit from the claim 
payment.
I know Mrs L paid for meals and a taxi home while she was waiting for the rearranged flight. 
But I don't think I can reasonably say Lloyds has to pay the travel delay benefit as well as 
the claim. First, the policy is clear that she can make one claim only under the Travel delay and abandonment section. Second, although Mrs L understandably decided to minimise the 
disruption to her young children the airline did offer meal vouchers and free hotel 
accommodation while they waited for the new flight.
I note the abandonment claim has a £50 excess for each insured person. The policy had no 
excess for the travel benefit so excesses havent already been deducted.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L and Lloyds said they had no comments on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have no comments on my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold this 
complaint in part. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must pay Mrs Ls claim for her hotel costs plus interest as Ive detailed below, less 
the £300 travel delay benefit already paid, less applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Society of Lloyds to pay Mrs Ls claim for her hotel costs plus interest* at 8% 
simple from the date of claim to date of settlement, less the £300 travel delay benefit already 
paid, less applicable excess.
*If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman