DRN-1292403
 
The complaint
Miss T has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited settled a claim under her car 
insurance policy on a split liability basis. Miss T said she isnt at fault for the incident.
What happened
Miss T reported an incident to her insurer, CIS in July 2019. She said a third party caused 
damage to her car while trying to pass hers as she was stationary. 
CIS said based on what Miss T told it, it would look to hold the third party responsible for the 
incident. It wrote to the third party insurer (TPI) and set out its allegations. 
However, the TPI said their driver disputed liability. Their driver said that after asking Miss T 
to reverse a little so her car could pass, both cars sat stationary for a while until eventually 
she tried to manoeuvre past.  But the other driver said Miss T drove forwards causing the 
collision. So she said Miss T caused the incident.
In October 2019 CIS told Miss T it intended to settle the claim on a split liability basis 
50%50%.
Miss T complained to CIS as she said she wasnt at fault. But CIS said its decision was 
correct and in line with the policy. 
Miss T asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator explained that we dont decide 
liability. But on checking if CIS had reached its decision in a fair way, she thought it had. 
Miss T didnt agree. She said she gave details of a witness to CIS. Shes unhappy that CIS 
didnt contact the witness.  
Our investigator didnt think this changed the outcome based on the circumstances of the 
incident. But Miss T didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cannot decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can decide if an insurer has 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.
Miss Ts policy with CIS has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor 
insurance policies. 
The term allows CIS to make a decision as to how to settle a claim in Miss Ts name under 
the policy. This means CIS might make a decision Miss T doesnt agree with, but the policy 
allows CIS to do this.. We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided CIS can show it 
treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
I understand Miss T is upset that CIS didnt contact a witness, who was a neighbour. But CIS 
said it wasnt made aware of a witness. CIS provided a recording of the initial call from 
Miss T. Miss T didnt mention a witness  but she had called CIS immediately after the 
incident so its reasonable that the witness wasnt known at the time. However, Ive seen 
CISs system notes and it records that there were no witnesses. Miss T provided a statement 
two weeks after the incident. Under the section please add any witness details below, 
Miss T left this blank.
So there isnt sufficient evidence to show me that CIS received details of an independent 
witness. Theres no guarantee that even with a witness statement from a neighbour, this 
would have certainly changed the outcome. 
I understand Miss T is very disappointed with CISs decision. But based on the remaining 
information available to CIS, I think its decision to settle the claim on a 50%50% shared 
liability basis was reached reasonably and in line with the policy.  In this case it was one 
partys word against the other. CIS can make a decision to settle a claim on the best terms 
possible, rather than increase costs and prolong the outcome based on its experience of 
handling claims and the likelihood of success.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman