DRN-3930032
The complaint
Mr, Mrs, Ms and Miss E are dissatisfied with how Rock Insurance Services Limited have 
administered their travel insurance policies.
Ms E is representing the parties in this case. So, when I mention Ms E, it also refers Mr, Mrs 
and Miss E too.
What happened
Ms E has explained that she booked a holiday with her family. The holiday was due to take 
place in June 2021. As well as booking the trip, Ms E purchased travel insurance for those 
going on holiday. The cost of this insurance was £174.
A few months before Ms E and her family were due to go on holiday, Ms E changed the date 
of the trip, so that instead of going abroad in June 2021, the holiday was to be in September 
2021 instead. 
Ms E said that at this point, she was told by Rock that she couldnt alter the dates on the 
existing insurance policies she had purchased. Instead, she would need to purchase new 
cover for her, and her family members. So, Ms E said she did this. With the new insurance 
costing £136.
On 4 March 2021, Ms E decided to cancel the holiday. And because the insurance policies 
wouldnt be needed anymore, she also asked for these to be cancelled too. Ms E was told 
she would receive the £136 back on the debit card she used to pay for it, within 8 weeks. 
But this didnt happen. So, in June 2021 she chased Rock for the refund. Who then said the 
refund had actually been taken off of her outstanding holiday balance, rather than being paid 
directly to her. Ms E explained that couldnt be right, as she had cancelled the holiday.
Ms E continued to chase the matter. At the end of July 2021, a representative within Rock 
who assured her he would chase the refund, to make sure she got it. And that as a gesture 
of goodwill for the trouble experienced, Rock would also provide a sum equivalent to 50% of 
the original insurance policies she had purchased at £174. So, Ms E would then be 
expecting £223 to be sent to her. But this money didnt come.  
Ms E raised a complaint about the matter. Rock again said that the £136 had been taken 
from her outstanding holiday balance. But offered £20 compensation for some customer 
service issues. 
Ms E remained dissatisfied. So, she referred her complaint to this service, for an 
independent review. 
In its submission to this service, Rock acknowledged that things had gone wrong in its 
dealings with Ms E. It said:
Ms E had been told she couldnt carry her original insurance policy over, when she 
changed the date of her trip from June 2021 to September 2021. When this wasnt 
correct. It said Ms E should have been able to simply change the dates on the 
original policy. So new insurance should never have been sold to her.
Rock didnt follow the correct process for the £136 refund originally. It should not 
have been deducted from the holiday balance  which was a separate, although 
linked, transaction. 
Ms E had experienced customer service issues. It said Rocks representatives had 
responded to her, without really understanding and responding to her concerns.
When Ms E emailed and requested a complaint be raised on 29 June 2021 this 
wasnt escalated as it should have been.
In recognition of the above, Rock said it would like to offer Ms E £385. It said this was the 
total of a refund for all insurance policies Ms E had purchased (£310) as well as £75 
compensation. 
Our investigator considered this offer to be fair. And Ms E accepted this. 
But Rock later changed its offer. It said its offer was actually £249. It said this was because it 
had realised Ms E hadnt actually paid the £136 insurance premium when buying the second 
set of policies. So, this didnt need to be refunded to her. The £249 was compensation for 
the trouble and upset Ms E experienced. 
Our investigator considered this revised offer, and thought it was fair. They said they couldnt 
ask Rock to pay the £136, when they couldnt see evidence that this had been paid in the 
first place. 
Ms E was unhappy with this. She said she had paid the second insurance premium of £136. 
And she felt compensation should now be increased, for the continued distress and 
inconvenience she was experiencing as a result of Rock.
As Ms E disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Rock acted to administer this policy for Ms E. And when administering the policy, I would 
expect it to act swiftly  and fairly. 
Rock has accepted that it didnt act in line with this, as there were various things that went 
wrong. As above, Rock has said:
A second set of insurance policies shouldnt have been sold to Ms E
Rock followed the wrong process when it was asked to cancel the insurance policies 
and seek a refund for Ms E
There were problems in its communications with Ms E  such as not understanding 
her concerns and failing to escalate her complaint. 
As Rock has accepted that the above went wrong, I dont need to consider these errors in 
detail. Instead, Ive needed to consider what is a fair and reasonable resolution to these 
issues. Ive thought carefully about this. And I think Rocks previous offer of £385 is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. So, Im intending on requiring it to pay this to Ms E.
I say this because I think £136 is a fair and reasonable award for the mis-sale of the 
insurance policies. And the remaining £249 is fair and reasonable compensation to reflect 
the trouble and upset Ms E had experienced due to the above errors.
In terms of the sale of the policies  it has been accepted these were mis-sold. I cant be 
sure that Ms E paid the £136 for these policies up front. Ive asked Rock for evidence of the 
payment method, and it hasnt replied. And Ms E has sent me a bank statement and a 
holiday invoice. But the funds on those looks like the deposit for the holiday, as well as 
cancellation fees for it. So, dont evidence the policies being paid for either. 
But whether Ms E paid for these or not, I think paying £136 to her for this incident is fair. It 
means she gets a refund if she did pay it. And if not, I think the figure is reasonable to 
compensate Ms E having to take the time to purchase a second set of policies, when she 
didnt need to. 
In terms of the remaining £249  I think this amount is fair and reasonable level of 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset Ms E has experienced because of the 
overall situation. The matter has been ongoing since March 2021. And its clear that Ms E 
has had to chase what was happening, following cancelling the policies. There has also 
been confusion as to what funds Ms E would be receiving. And instances where Ms E wasnt 
responded to, or understood, when shed made the situation clear to Rock. Im satisfied 
£249 fairly recognises the impact Rocks errors have had on Ms E. And so, Im intending on 
requiring Rock to pay this to Ms E, alongside the £136 mentioned above.
Its my understand that Ms E has already paid Ms E £249 of the £385  with £75 of this 
being sent to her through BACS transfer. And £174 of it being sent via online banking. If this 
is the case, Rock doesnt need to pay this to Ms E again. Just the £136 outstanding. 
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Rock Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Ms E £385 in total, if it hasnt done so already. 
If Rock has paid part of this already, it now needs to pay the remainder. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E, Mrs E, Mr 
E and Ms E to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 Rachel Woods
Ombudsman