DRN-3288878
The complaint
Mr T complains that PSA Finance UK Limited refused to accept let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PSA is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
In order for me to be able to require rejection I need to be satisfied that the car was faulty at 
the point of sale or had an inherent fault. A number of issues due to wear and tear would not 
be sufficient to allow me to uphold the complaint.
The car was some four and a half years old and had covered some 43,000 miles. This 
means one would expect there to be a degree of wear and tear. The engine management 
light came on on a number of occasions and I appreciate Mr T was concerned that the car 
had some fundamental issues which led him to sell it at a loss. 
However, the dealer has said that there were different causes for the light illuminating. 
Initially it was due to a historical warning which hadnt been cleared and then it was because 
of a faulty battery. This is a consumable and I am satisfied that it is a matter of wear and tear 
rather than a fault which would allow me to require rejection.
Some months later it came on again and this time the dealer identified the car required a top 
up of fuel additive.  This was filled up and although the light didnt clear at first a master 
technician reset it.
The next time was due to a rear injector failure and the dealer replaced it and when that 
wasnt sufficient it replaced the tank. I gather that addressed the fault. This was repaired at 
no cost to Mr T and he was kept mobile with a courtesy car.
I can understand Mr Ts concerns, but the management light can show up a range of issues 
and in this case apart from the rear injector and tank the causes are ones related to wear 
and tear. It is regrettable that several faults occurred in the first year, but that if itself does 
not merit rejection. The rear injector failure is clearly a more fundamental fault and under 
consumer law the seller had one attempt to repair that fault. I believe this is what it did at no 
cost to Mr T and he was provided with a courtesy car. 
I have no independent expect evidence to show that the car was faulty at the point of sale. It 
is simply that a number of issues arose over Mr Ts period of ownership and those do not 
amount to there being a fault such that rejection is merited.
I agree with our investigator that this would have been frustrating for Mr T and he had to take 
the car back on numerous occasions. However, I agree that the offer of £306 compensation 
by PSA was fair and reasonable.
I recognise my decision will be disappointing to Mr T, but I cannot safely uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
PSA Finance UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £306 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that PSA Finance UK Limited should pay £306 if it has not already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman