DRN-2906038
The complaint 
Mr J complains that Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), trading as M&S Financial Solutions gave him 
unsuitable advice to switch his personal pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension and 
use a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
What happened
Mr J was looking for advice on his existing personal pensions (two policies with same 
provider) to see whether he could get better returns. He got in touch with Pi who advised him 
in 2017 to switch his pensions (worth just under £40,000 in total) to a SIPP and use a DFM 
service.
Mr J complained to Pi a couple of years later as he thought the advice had been unsuitable. 
He says he lost a significant amount in his new pension in a short timeframe and thought the 
new pension was riskier than he was made to believe it would be.
Pi rejected the complaint. One of our investigators then considered the complaint and upheld 
it in Mr Js favour. He thought there was no real need for Mr J to switch into a SIPP or use 
the services of a DFM which was a more expensive arrangement.
Pi disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the recommendation to switch to a SIPP 
and a DFM was unsuitable in Mr Js circumstances. Ill explain why.
Mr Js objectives were recorded as:
You wanted to invest some monies in more exciting asset classes and with a better 
opportunity for return.
You take an active interest in various commodities and you would also like some of 
your pension to be invested into equities.
You do not have the time, personally, to keep a close eye on your investments and 
therefore request assistance from a fund manager to keep a close eye on the 
worldwide markets, putting together a suitable portfolio based on your investment risk 
attitude, whilst putting in place rebalancing measures to help improve long-term 
security and growth opportunity.
You would like regular updates on your pension investments, monthly or more 
frequently as you take an active interest in the world-wide markets and commodities
Pi recommended the switch for the following reasons:
Mr Js existing plan did not offer a drawdown option. Benefits in the SIPP could be 
taken from age 55
Whilst invested, his funds would benefit from tax advantaged growth
A SIPP could provide more exciting investments and give Mr J control over the 
choice of investments 
With a DFM he could handover the responsibility for managing investments to an 
expert, but keep ultimate control
By switching his existing pensions to a SIPP with a DFM Mr J incurred additional costs. He 
paid an advice fee of £1,545.24 and early exit charges of £1,135. On top of that he was 
paying higher ongoing charges. His existing pensions charged an annual management 
charge of 0.75% plus paid up fees of around £92 per year. The new arrangement cost £150 
per year in annual SIPP charges plus an ongoing advice fee of 1% per year and dealing 
commission for the DFM of 1.5% a year. The recommendation report set out that there could 
be further costs for underlying stocks and shares.
The regulator made in clear in 2009 that a pension switch was unsuitable if the new 
arrangement incurred extra costs without good reason. And I cant see that there was good 
reason for Mr J to incur those additional costs.
Mr J was 51 at the time of the advice and his intended retirement age was 67, so he didnt 
need to switch his pensions in order to possibly access drawdown many years later. He 
could have made this decision nearer to retirement when he would have had a better idea of 
what he needed and wanted. Also, any pension does have the advantage of growing funds 
in a tax-efficient way, so the SIPP didnt offer anything different in this respect.
Mr J was on a salary of £44k and he was renting. He had £30k in a rainy-day fund and was 
expecting to receive another £30k from a family property sale. Other than this and his 
pension he had no savings or investments.  
Having looked at Mr Js fact find and knowledge and experience assessment he completed, 
its clear he didnt have any real investment experience. The recommendation letter 
acknowledged that Mr Js investment experience predominantly came from having his 
existing pensions. Given these were invested in managed funds I think its reasonable to say 
he didnt have much active involvement. Mr J also indicated on the form that he didnt have 
any strong views on where his money was invested.
I think Mr Js main objective was that he wanted to get the best possible returns on his 
pension within his risk profile. He had been disappointed with the performance of his existing 
funds. However, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that he really needed a wider range 
of investments which were only available through a SIPP to achieve his goals. 
Looking at his existing pensions, a third of one pension had been invested in an adventurous 
fund, which I think was above Mr Js balanced attitude to risk. I cant see that the options of 
an internal switch of investments to more balanced funds (which would have been much 
more cost effective) or opening a stakeholder plan which he could have used for future 
contributions -and which also had lower charges- were properly explored. There was no 
indication that investment through a DFM in a balanced portfolio would get Mr J better 
returns which would outweigh the higher charges. I note that the model portfolio of the DFM 
which was set out in the recommendation letter contained similar assets to his existing pension (mix of equities, government and corporate bonds). No other exciting investments 
were included.
Being a balanced investor with a relatively modest fund value and not a lot of experience, I 
think Mr J would have benefitted more from a low-cost and more basic arrangement which 
could have been reviewed on an annual basis by the adviser to make sure he was still 
invested appropriately and kept informed. I dont think a DFM which incurred further charges 
was necessary. A key consideration should have been to keep charges as low as possible 
as these would certainly affect growth.
Overall, I dont think the recommendation to switch to a SIPP with a DFM was suitable.  
Pi says they cant be held responsible for any investment recommendations by the DFM 
which might have led to Mr Js losses. Its possible that the DFMs actions also contributed to 
Mr Js investment losses. However, I can only look at the complaint that has been brought to 
us which is against Pi. Whether other parties- for example the DFM- might also be 
responsible for the same losses or some of the losses is a distinct matter, which I am
not able to determine here. 
However, that fact should not impact on Mr Js right to compensation from Pi for the full 
amount of compensation. Mr J only ended up in the SIPP and DFM arrangement because of 
Pis unsuitable advice. So I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances that they 
compensate him for the losses incurred by switching to the SIPP and DFM.
Pi is free to pursue other parties for these losses once theyve compensated Mr J in full.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr J would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr J's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below:
Pi should pay into Mr J's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the total amount into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr J wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr J a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists and 
liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr J's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to do the calculations and compensate 
Mr J accordingly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman