DRN-3948040
The complaint
Mr J complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line dealt with his claim unfairly 
following a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J informed his insurer Direct Line that he was involved in a non-fault road traffic incident 
on 20 June 2019. He says he was led to believe this was a straightforward claim, but it went 
on to become far more complicated than initially suggested. He complains that :-
- He was told they had accepted the incident as non-fault in a letter dated 21 June 
2019, but later looked to split liability 50/50
- They wouldnt accept any evidence he put forward and had to push Direct Line to 
defend the claim even though this was evidence that the court would later accept
- The customer service he received was poor
- He was told he was due a refund as his initial quotation at policy inception was wrong 
but received an incorrect refund amount from them.
Initially when he complained he was offered £50 compensation which he rejected as he 
didnt feel it was sufficient for the level of stress theyd caused him. This offer was not 
included when Direct Line issued their final response letter to him. To resolve his complaint, 
he would like an apology and to be compensated for the poor customer service he received.
 
In their final response letter, Direct Line say they allowed his no claims discount, and waived 
his policy excess at the start of the claim. They say Mr J was not owed a refund of his 
premium as a refund was generated at the start of his claim. They say they maintained their 
liability position as non-fault throughout the claim and had no choice but to issue legal 
proceedings in order to recover their own costs as the third party had not accepted liability. 
They didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and gave a detailed timeline of events. She said 
theyd actively pushed the third party insurer to accept liability and, when they didnt, they 
had no choice but to issue legal proceedings. She couldnt see that a 50/50 settlement was 
ever discussed and concluded that she didnt think Direct Line hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr J didnt agree with this outcome, so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
I considered whether Direct Line had any point changed their position on liability or 
communicated this after initially confirming they did not consider Mr J at fault for the 
accident. 
In their letter to him in June 2019 saying they would deal with this as a non-fault accident, 
they also pointed out, should it later be proven that you are fully or partially at fault, your No 
Claims Discount may be affected at renewal, and we will contact you to discuss. So, this did 
put Mr J on notice that there was a possibility that liability could be subject to change at 
some point. The later communications from Direct Line saying the claim was unlikely to 
settle on a non-fault basis simply kept Mr J informed that the third party hadnt agreed 
liability so it had not yet been resolved and continued to be disputed. I am satisfied Direct 
Line had kept him up to date on liability and clearly outlined the position to him to manage 
his expectations. This does not mean they had changed their liability position and no split is 
mentioned in this communication. Instead, Ive seen clear evidence they continued to re-
iterate they were supporting his version of events and continued to defend him.
The evidence Ive seen shows numerous letters were sent to the third partys insurer holding 
their insured liable for the accident. I havent seen anything to suggest the liability stance 
had changed or that they had considered a 50/50 split. There was no evidence they had 
written to the Third Party Insurer to make an offer, nor could I see that there was any offer 
received. However, given the third party had not accepted liability and this continued to be in 
dispute throughout, it wouldnt have been unreasonable for Direct Line to have considered a 
liability split or make an offer  but ultimately, no 50/50 was ever agreed.
I could also see that Direct Line wrote to him in May 2022, when legal proceedings were 
concluded in his favour, to confirm they had made a full recovery and that the claim had 
been closed with no impact to his No Claims Discount. Having reviewed their file notes in 
detail, I am not persuaded that any change in the liability stance was ever made by Direct 
Line. 
Mr Js concerns around his evidence not being accepted appear to be inconsistent with the 
comments noted. A file note in March 2020 shows the evidence received from Mr J was 
considered carefully, but it also noted that it doesnt provide us with enough evidence to 
pursue a claim. This suggested the evidence wasnt considered to have sufficient impact to 
warrant pursuing a claim. This doesnt mean the evidence was dismissed or ignored. The 
evidence was forwarded to the third partys insurer, who responded in April 2020 to say the 
evidence didnt prove anything and that they would be continuing with their witness 
statement. 
I note Mr J raised concerns around the legitimacy of the third partys witness and I have 
seen that Direct Line continued to raise their concerns of the inconsistencies in the witness 
statement. They did follow this up and updated Mr J on a regular basis. It is clear they did 
take into account all the information and evidence hes provided and acted on this 
accordingly.
Mr Js comments in relation to the contents of the call in September 2019 are noted. 
However, as this call recording is not available, there is no way for me to establish what was 
said with any certainty. So, I have taken the approach of considering on balance what is 
more likely than not to have happened. The refund of his premium was generated when the 
claim was initially made and was noted as non-fault with no impact to the no claims discount. 
The evidence I have seen shows that in a call to Direct Line in May 2022, Mr J confirmed he 
received a refund of around £403 in September 2019. In addition to this, no further details 
have been provided as to why Mr J believes this amount is incorrect, or what the correct 
amount should be. So, on balance it is more likely than not, the correct premium refund was 
issued when the claim was first made.
It seems that Mr J remains unhappy that the third party insurer didnt accept liability, but 
Direct Line cant be held at fault for that. Ultimately, they took all reasonable steps expected of them and were able to resolve the matter with Mr J being found 100% not at fault. I know 
Mr J will be disappointed with my decision but, from what I have seen, I dont think Direct 
Line have dealt with Mr Js complaint unfairly, nor has any wrongdoing on their part been 
established. As such I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman