DRN-4189545
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Santander UK Plc has affected her credit file after she went into 
a debt management plan (DMP) on her credit card account.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs H went into a DMP to repay her creditors. Mrs H says that Santander treated 
her repayments in the plan as missed payments because they were less than the minimum 
amount due. She says it was only when she started paying the minimum amount due that 
Santander stopped recording missed payments on her credit file.
Mrs H says that if Santander had defaulted her credit card account, as it did with her 
overdraft account, she would be in a better position. Thats because the default would have 
dropped off her credit file within six years from the date of the default. Whereas the missed 
payments will remain on her credit file for longer.
Santander responded to Mrs Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. It explained that it had 
correctly not defaulted the account  as the arrears on the account hadnt built up to a point 
where it should have defaulted. Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs H referred her 
complaint to this service.
An Investigator considered what both parties had said, however they thought Santander had 
acted fairly in this case. They explained that theyd seen enough information to show that 
Santander had accepted a payment arrangement from Mrs H and had recorded this with the 
credit reference agencies. And so, the Investigator thought Santander had recorded what 
had happened accurately with the credit reference agencies.
Mrs H didnt agree with the Investigators view. She felt that she had made an effort to repay 
her debts via the plan. And someone who hadnt done that would have had their account 
defaulted and would have been in a better position than her. Essentially, she feels that her 
credit file has been impacted for a longer period of time than if her account had defaulted 
and so she didnt feel that was fair. Mrs H also said that her overdraft account was defaulted 
and not treated in the same way as her credit card account.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, however I will explain my 
findings below.
Mrs H entered into a debt management plan in 2017  Santander accepted the repayment 
proposal and Mrs H made repayments in line with the agreed arrangement.
Guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in relation to DMPs says:
If the plan is accepted by the lender, the record filed at the credit reference agencies must 
reflect that the consumer is on a DMP. For such accounts arrears may continue to be 
calculated in accordance with the contracted terms, but the account marked as under a 
DMP.
Santander has provided this service with evidence to show that it was reporting the account 
was in a DMP to the credit reference agency it uses. And so Im satisfied that Santander 
were correctly reporting the status of Mrs Hs credit card account. 
This same guidance also states:
If an arrangement is agreed  a default would not normally be registered unless the terms 
of that arrangement are broken.
And
A default should not be filed:
  If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you keep to the 
terms of that arrangement    
In this case, given that Mrs H was in an arrangement with Santander to repay a reduced 
amount, and Mrs H had stuck to the arrangement, it wouldnt have been fair of Santander to 
default the account.  I havent seen any reason for Santander to default Mrs Hs credit card 
account. And given the impact a default could have on someones credit file; I wouldnt have 
expected Santander to default an account where it didnt need to. And so, I cant fairly 
conclude that Santander should have defaulted the credit card account.
I will also add that it is up to a lender how it views information on a persons credit file. So, 
while Mrs H thinks that she would have been better off with her account defaulting, this isnt 
necessarily the case  how a lender decides to interpret information on a credit file is up to 
that lender.
Mrs Hs complaint to this service was about the credit card account. So, I havent 
investigated what happened on the overdraft account and why that defaulted when the credit 
card account didnt. However, Santander has explained that Accounts are defaulted once 
they reach a certain level of arrears, and these accounts did not reach the same level of 
arrears at the same time. If Mrs H wants to make a complaint about that account, she will 
need to do so separately.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman