DRN-1672442
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd restricted and then closed his account.
What happened
Mr W had an account with Monzo. In June 2019, Monzo decided to review Mr Ws account. 
Whilst it carried out its review placed a block on the account which meant he wasnt able to 
use it. Following its review Monzo decided to close Mr Ws account.
Mr W says that the block and closure of his account caused him inconvenience. He says 
Monzo havent explained why it no longer wanted him as a customer. And didnt let him 
know what was happening with his account. He wants Monzo to pay him compensation and 
reopen his account. 
Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to review and close Mr Ws 
account. And had acted in line with the terms and conditions when it decided to close Mr Ws 
account immediately. Mr W disagreed. He said Monzo havent treated him fairly. He wants 
the bank to tell him why it closed his account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. He said Monzo hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had blocked and closed Mr Ws account. Mr W disagreed. And asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im satisfied that Monzo was within its rights to review Mr Ws account and that it was 
entitled to block it while it carried out that review. Monzo also werent obliged to tell Mr W 
why it was carrying out a review of his account  as much as hed like to know. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ws account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether they want to provide, or to continue to provide banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer 
who has had their account closed.
Having looked at whats happened in this complaint, Monzo were also entitled to close Mr 
Ws account immediately and did so in line with the account terms. I note too, that Mr W had 
an account with at least one other bank, so the immediate impact would have been reduced. 
So, whilst appreciate this caused Mr W inconvenience, I cant say Monzo have treated Mr W 
unfairly when it decided to close his account.
Mr W has said that Monzos communication was poor and it didnt let him know that his 
account was being closed. Having looked at the online chat conversations between the bank 
and Mr W, I dont agree. I can see that Monzo explained to Mr W that it had taken the decision to close his account and pointed him towards the relevant section of its terms and 
conditions. I can also see that Monzo sent Mr W a letter which told him the bank had closed 
his account. And that Mr W responded to Monzos request to provide his bank account 
details so that it could forward his balance. So, overall, I think the communication was 
adequate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman