DRN-1694345
 
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs I was given a Safety Net facility in July 2016. This was a running credit account where a 
consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited into 
their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net amount of the 
customers choosing.
The initial credit limit in July 2016 was £350. The limit was then increased further on four 
occasions until Mrs I credit limit reached £480 in September 2017.  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Is complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting the facility were proportionate, so she didnt think it was wrong of SNC to 
grant it. However, the adjudicator didnt think the drawdowns from 31 March 2017 shouldve 
been lent as she thought Mrs I had become reliant on the facility - with the frequency of 
repayments and further borrowing suggesting she was struggling to meet her repayments in 
a sustainable way.  
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. It considers that its more important to look at Mrs Is 
outstanding balance when considering the facilitys sustainability, rather than the number of 
drawdowns taken. SNC also says that as there was no objective reason to withdraw the 
credit facility on 31 March 2017, it acted fairly by continuing to offer drawdowns and that this 
was in line with the spirit of regulatory guidance about credit cards. SNC feels the borrowing 
remained affordable and there were no signs of persistent debt. 
Mrs I didnt responded to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Both Mrs I and SNC appear to accept that it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to have been 
approved or for drawdowns up until 31 March 2017 to have been lent. As such, it seems that 
this lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a finding about it.
So instead, this decision will focus on whether SNC did anything wrong when it granted the 
drawdowns from 31 March 2017. But I have kept the other drawdowns in mind when thinking 
about the overall lending relationship between SNC and Mrs I.When SNC agreed the drawdown on 31 March 2017 there was an expectation that it would 
review and monitor how Mrs I was using the facility. Indeed, the guidance at the time that 
can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 6.7.2 says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. 
What this means is that it wasnt enough for SNC to just carry out an assessment before the 
facility was approved or where there was an increase in the credit limit. It needed to continue 
to monitor how Mrs I used the facility and then step in and provide help when or if it could 
see she was or was likely having financial difficulties.
Having reviewed the same information that SNC saw, I agree with our adjudicator that there 
was clear information which ought to have led SNC to decline Mrs Is request for any further 
drawdowns from 31 March 2017. I think SNC ought to have been reasonably aware that by 
this point, Mrs I wasnt using the facility in a sustainable manner. Ill explain why below. 
In order to see whether I think it was right to have allowed Mrs I to continue to draw down, 
Ive considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC; the value of 
those payments; and then when Mrs I returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mrs I was 
making regular repayments to SNC, and then quickly drawing down a similar sum again, this 
ought to have indicated that she wasnt using the facility as it was designed to be used, and 
she therefore may not have been able to afford the repayments.
I can see that initially Mrs I drew down to the facilitys credit limit on 13 July 2016 through 
two drawdowns of £100 and £250. Following two repayments, Mrs I had repaid the 
outstanding balance by 22 July 2016. No further drawdowns were taken until 15 November 
2016 when Mrs I borrowed £340. Regular repayments were then made, with Mrs I also 
borrowing again around every two weeks. By 25 January 2017 Mrs I had drawdown a further 
nine times with the drawdowns ranging from £20 to £270. Generally, there was an 
outstanding balance of over £300. 
Subsequently a pattern of repayments and drawdowns began to develop. Between             
27 January 2017 and the end of February 2017 Mrs I made eleven manual payments (so 
payments outside of the automatic sweep that SNC used) of £20 every few days. On the 
same day that ten of these repayments were made, Mrs I drew down slightly smaller 
amounts shortly afterwards. For example, on 2 February 2017, a repayment of £20 was 
made at 19:08 and a drawdown then took place of £19.70 at 19:09.   
Its evident too that Mrs Is outstanding balance increased during this period to over £500 
(the credit limit having increased to £410 in January 2017), albeit this sum wouldve included 
any interest that was due to be paid. But, SNC also had access to Mrs Is bank statements 
so I think it would also have seen that she no longer appeared to be receiving a regular 
wage from her employer.    
In March 2017 the pattern of repayments and rapid drawdowns continued. Mrs I made a 
further eight repayments of £20 whilst immediately drawing down smaller amounts of around 
£15. On 31 March 2017, a repayment of £120.71 was taken and a further £92.22 drawn 
down. Overall 30 advances had been made between November 2016 and March 2017 the 
majority of these drawdowns followed a repayment to SNC. 
It appears Mrs I was still not in receipt of a regular wage, so there had been a gap in this 
source of income by this point of over four months. And, despite making regular repayments, 
the further regular drawdowns meant that Mrs Is outstanding balance was not reducing.Indeed, what seems to have happened is that Mrs I was making repayments and then 
having to immediately take out new funds because she needed to cover the whole left in her 
finances caused by making the repayment.       
Looking at everything together, I think Mrs Is pattern of repayments and borrowing should 
have concerned a responsible lender. It appeared to show there were clear signs that Mrs I 
was having financial difficulties, and this was reflected by the fact that she wasnt using the 
facility as SNC intended. SNC says itself that this facility isnt designed for someone who is 
struggling to maintain control of their finances  and I think that is most likely what was 
happening to Mrs I. I think this is something that SNC ought reasonably to have been aware 
of because it had read only access to Mrs I bank account. As a result, there was a clear risk 
that any further drawdowns were not going to be repaid in sustainable manner. 
SNC has said continuing to offer drawdowns was in line with the spirit of regulatory guidance 
about credit cards, which raised concern about the cancellation of credit cards. SNC also 
didnt think Mrs I was showing signs of persistent debt as defined by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Whilst SNC hasnt referred to a specific definition, my understanding is that 
the FCA didnt even start the consultation process for defining persistent debt until April 2017 
 which is after I think Mrs Is complaint should be upheld. 
To be clear, the SNC facility isnt a credit card. And in any event in this case I think it 
wouldve been reasonable not to allow further drawdowns because SNC shouldve been 
concerned about the way Mrs I was using the facility, and what it was seeing in her bank 
statements. The pattern of rapid re-borrowing following repayments had persisted for two 
months and, since November 2016, 30 advances had been made. In my view, these signs 
indicated that Mrs Is situation was becoming unsustainable and she was in a position where 
she would most likely begin to experience repayment problems imminently.
So overall, I dont think SNC should have allowed any further drawdowns from
31 March 2017. 
what SNC should do to put things right
To put things right for Mrs I, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance 
and then refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to Mrs Is facility from
31 March 2017
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the 
above refund is sufficient to repay what Mrs I owes, then the remainder of the refund 
should then be paid directly to Mrs I. If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to 
repay the outstanding principal, then SNC and Mrs I should try and come to a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan in order to repay what is owed. But Id remind 
SNC of its obligation to treat Mrs I fairly;   
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Is credit file from 31 March 2017. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mrs Is complaint. Indigo Michael Limited should 
put things right for Mrs I as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman