DRN-4113072
The complaint
Mr C complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited and the progression of the claim 
he made on his motor insurance policy. Mr C also complains about Skyfires failure to keep 
him adequately updated.
What happened
Mr C purchased a motor insurance policy through an intermediary, who Ill refer to as F. 
The policy itself was underwritten by Skyfire, through their role as the policy insurer.
Unfortunately, in June 2022, Mr Cs car was stolen. So, he contacted F to claim on his 
insurance policy. As F were acting as an agent of Skyfire when administering the policy, 
Skyfire are responsible for the actions of F, and the way the claim was managed as a whole. 
So, I will refer to any actions taken by F as though they were made by Skyfire throughout the 
decision.
Mr Cs car was recovered 3 days after he reported the claim stolen. So, Skyfire arranged for 
the car to be collected and inspected by a third party, who Ill refer to as B. Following this 
inspection, Mr Cs car was deemed to be a total loss. So, following this information, Skyfire 
took steps to validate the claim before issuing a settlement, asking B to compile a report. But 
this validation took some time to complete, and Mr C was unhappy about this. So, he raised 
a complaint in November.
Mr C was unhappy with the length of time it had taken to progress his claim and he was 
unhappy that he remained without a settlement for his stolen car. Mr C also complained 
about the lack of updates he felt hed been provided by Skyfire during this process. So, Mr C 
wanted Skyfire to issue a settlement as soon as possible, as well as compensation for the 
stress hed been caused and the financial loss he felt hed incurred.
Skyfire responded to the complaint in December and didnt uphold it. They explained that B 
had yet to finalise their report. And they felt they were entitled to ensure any theft claim was 
investigated and validated, which may take time to complete. So, Skyfire didnt think they 
had done anything wrong and because of this, didnt offer to do anything more. Mr C 
remained unhappy with this response, so asked our service to investigate the complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought Skyfire had 
progressed the claim fairly and they didnt think there were any avoidable delays that had 
caused the claim to remain open for as long as it had. But they didnt think Skyfire had been 
proactive in providing Mr C with updates, and they recognised this had caused Mr C to 
chase for updates himself. So, our investigator thought Skyfire should pay Mr C £100 to 
recognise the upset their failure to update him wouldve caused.
Skyfire accepted this recommendation. But Mr C didnt. Mr C remained unhappy that his 
claim remained open, and he still hadnt received a settlement for his stolen car several 
months later. Mr C wanted our service to direct Skyfire to settle the claim and was unhappy 
our investigator hadnt done so in their recommendation.
Our investigator replied to Mr Cs concerns, explaining their investigation had only 
considered Skyfires actions up until the date of their complaint response in December 2022. 
So, any issues Mr C had regarding Skyfires service would need to be addressed separately. 
And our investigators view remained unchanged, recommending Skyfire pay Mr C £100 for 
the lack of updates. Mr C continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note Skyfire have accepted they couldve done more to proactively update Mr C during the 
claim process. As this error has been accepted, I dont intend to discuss the merits of this in 
more detail. I will discuss what I think Skyfire should do to recognise this later within this 
decision.
Instead, Ive focused on the main area of dispute which relates to the progression of Mr Cs 
claim, and the fact it remains ongoing.
I recognise Mr C is unhappy that he is yet to receive a settlement for his stolen car. And I 
appreciate why Mr C feels our service should assist him in ensuring the claim is settled, and 
a payment received.
But its not our services role to handle Mr Cs claim. Nor are we able to direct a business 
such as Skyfire to settle a claim if they feel validation is still required. It is our services role 
to consider whether the actions Skyfire have taken have been fair and reasonable, up until 
the date of Skyfires response to Mr Cs complaint. So, Ive only thought about Skyfires 
actions up until December 2022. Im unable to consider any events that have taken place 
after this date as before our service can consider these, Skyfire must been given a chance to 
investigate Mr Cs concerns about this within their own complaints process. 
And after considering the actions Skyfire have taken up to December 2022, using Skyfires 
claim notes and communications to B and other parties, I dont think I can say there have 
been any avoidable delays that satisfy me Skyfire have progressed the claim unfairly or 
unreasonably.
While I do recognise the claim has taken a significant amount of time, Im satisfied this has 
resulted from Skyfires attempts to validate the claim, which has been impacted by the 
complexity of the checks B have completed. And I think Skyfire are entitled to validate any 
claim they receive, to ensure any settlement provided is correct and within the terms of the 
policy they provide.
Ive seen Skyfire have chased B for updates on several occasions and where necessary, 
they have requested further information from various parties, including Mr C. I dont think 
there have been any extended periods of time where the claim was awaiting action from 
Skyfire before being able to proceed and so, I dont think I can say Skyfire have acted 
unfairly regarding this aspect of the complaint.
I also note that although Mr C was only entitled to a hire car for a 28-day period, Skyfire agreed to arrange for a hire car to be provided in addition to this to acknowledge Mr Cs 
personal circumstances and the health of his child. I think this shows Skyfire acting both 
fairly and reasonably in an attempt to minimise the inconvenience caused to Mr C. 
Ive then turned back to Skyfires failure to update Mr C and thought about what I think they 
should do to put things right regarding this aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr C back in the position he wouldve 
been, had Skyfire acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had Skyfire acted fairly, I think they wouldve been more proactive in 
providing Mr C with updates during the claim process. And, while I dont think this wouldve 
led to the claim being progressed any quicker, I think it wouldve reduced the level of anxiety 
and frustration Mr C wouldve felt. I think Skyfire providing more proactive updates wouldve 
stopped Mr C needing to chase them himself, which I recognise wouldve been inconvenient 
for Mr C. And had Mr C received proactive updates, I think he wouldve had a better 
understanding of his claim position and in turn, I think its likely he wouldve felt more 
reassured that the claim was progressing as it should.
Our investigator recommended Skyfire pay Mr C £100 to recognise this impact, which 
Skyfire has accepted. And I think this award is a fair one that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward. So, I think 
Skyfire should pay Mr C £100 to recognise the impact their failure to update Mr C caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr C £100 to recognise their failure to provide adequate updates during the 
claim process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman