DRN-3049137
The complaint
Mr M complains he didnt get the right amount of money when he surrendered his 
investment with Wesleyan Assurance Society in March 2020.
What happened
Mr M called Wesleyan on 18 March 2020. He had an investment that was due to end later in 
the year. But he wanted to surrender it in two parts  either side of the end of the tax year  
so he could benefit twice from annual tax allowances that would apply. Wesleyan told him 
hed need to fill out some forms to do that. They said itd take three to five working days for 
the forms to be sent out.
By 25 March  five working days later  Mr M hadnt received anything. So he contacted 
Wesleyan over web-chat. The transcript of the web-chat shows Wesleyan could see the 
forms had been added  at noon that day  to an online document sharing service. Mr M 
needed a code to access that service, so Wesleyan arranged for this to be emailed to him.
The forms gave the value of the investment on 24 March. But information Wesleyan have 
now provided shows that was actually the value on 23 March. The value on 24 March was 
lower.
Mr M submitted the forms on 26 March, surrendering the whole investment. There was a 
delay acting on that instruction, until 3 April. But Wesleyan told Mr M hed get the value of 
the investment as it was on 26 March, when hed submitted his request. The information 
from Wesleyan confirms he did.
Mr Ms complaint to Wesleyan focussed on the drop in the investments value. He felt a fee 
for the investment had been taken twice. In response, Wesleyan explained that wasnt the 
case, and the investment had suffered a rapid drop in value due to the effect of the 
coronavirus pandemic on financial markets in March 2020. 
Mr M also referred to a chargeable event certificate, which he felt showed he should have 
received more than he did. But Wesleyan said the gain was calculated correctly, and 
reflected what Mr M had received.
Wesleyan accepted thered been a delay handling the withdrawal, after receiving Mr Ms 
instruction on 26 March. The offered him £150 compensation for that.
Still feeling he was out of pocket, Mr M came to us. I made a provisional decision in July that 
partly upheld the complaint. I found Mr M had received the right amount from the investment, 
but I could see how the incorrect value in Wesleyans letter of 25 March led him to believe he 
hadnt. I said Wesleyan should pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress that caused.
Neither Mr M nor Wesleyan appear to have responded to my provisional decision, so the 
complaint is back with me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my provisional decision was the right one for this case. Im 
making that my final decision, and Ill repeat the key points here to confirm my reasoning. 
Ill start with the delay processing Mr Ms request to surrender his investment, as it doesnt 
seem to be in dispute. Ive seen the timeline for Mr M asking for and receiving the money in 
this case, and I agree this should have been handled quicker than it was.
I also see it didnt affect the value Mr M received  he got the value from 26 March, when he 
submitted his formal request. So Wesleyan dont need to take any steps to compensate him 
for a financial loss. But I can see how it would have been frustrating for him, on top of an 
already upsetting situation. Compensation will be the right way to acknowledge that impact.
Ill talk about the amount I think should be paid, after considering the other parts of the 
complaint.
Ive found Wesleyan didnt make any commitment in their terms and conditions for sending 
out withdrawal forms in a certain amount of time. But the call on 18 March 2020 did give a 
commitment  three to five working days. 
At that time, Mr M was planning his withdrawal around the end of the tax year. The three to 
five working days timescale would have allowed him to make a withdrawal before the tax 
year ended on 5 April. So that seems like a reasonable timescale for Wesleyan to have 
worked to.
Looking at the web-chat record Mr Ms sent us, and the date and valuation on the withdrawal 
form, Im satisfied Wesleyan sent the form on 25 March, using the online service. That was 
the fifth working day after Mr Ms request, so in line with what they said theyd do. Based on 
that, I consider the timescale here to be reasonable.
I dont see that sending the forms sooner would have led to Mr M withdrawing his money 
sooner. The webchat conversation seems to show he was unaware the forms had been 
added to the online service earlier that day. If the forms had been added a few days earlier, I 
cant see that would have changed Mr Ms awareness of them. And if he wasnt aware of 
them, he wouldnt have acted on them.
Mr Ms other points relate more directly to the value of his investment. In this case, thats 
made up of two amounts  a fund value and a bonus. It appears the fund is valued at 
intervals. If a withdrawal is made in between those valuations, Wesleyan either pay a bonus, 
or make a market value reduction, to make sure that what people receive reflects what the 
investment is worth.
Here, Mr M received a bonus. But that bonus dropped in March, by relatively large amounts. 
Those drops appear to reflect the significant impact that the coronavirus pandemic had on 
the global markets. Wesleyan arent responsible for that. So I find they dont need to take 
any action to cover the loss suffered by Mr Ms investment during that time.
Ive then looked to see if theres any sign of the drops being caused by the fee for the 
investment being taken twice.
Between 18 and 26 March 2020, the value of Mr Ms investment dropped six times. Mr M 
then received the 26 March value. Each individual drop is for less than the fee for the 
investment. So it doesnt look like wrongly taking the fee was causing the drops.But, as I noted when I wrote about whats happened previously, Wesleyan incorrectly said 
the 23 March value for the investment was the 24 March value. That makes it look like the 
investment dropped by a lot more over the two days to 26 March. In fact, that drop was less 
steep than it appeared to Mr M, because it happened over three days.
I can see how this mistake in Wesleyans valuation letter of 25 March left Mr M feeling 
worried that thered been a mistake. That feeling wasnt corrected by Wesleyans response 
to Mr Ms complaint, which repeated that the 23 March value was the 24 March value.
So Im going to partly uphold Mr Ms complaint on this point. Wesleyan valued his investment 
wrongly in their letter of 25 March 2020. They should have told him the value for 24 March 
accurately, or told him that the value they were quoting was the 23 March value. 
Had they done so, Mr M might still have been worried about the rapid drop in the 
investments value. But it would probably have been clearer to him that the drop wasnt 
unusually sharp, compared to previous valuations.
Mr Ms discussed the calculations of the investments gain, used to complete the chargeable 
event certificate. I discussed the calculation of this in my provisional decision, and explained 
how I agreed with the size of the gain Wesleyan calculated. 
Theres been no disagreement with my calculation. So I find Wesleyan arrived at the right 
amount for the gain, and havent charged their fee twice. On that basis, the certificate was 
reasonable.
Putting things right
To decide what will put this complaint right, Ive thought about how the situation might have 
changed if Wesleyan hadnt told Mr M an incorrect value for his investment, and if there 
hadnt been a delay paying him his money.
I find it likely Mr M would still have been unhappy that his investment lost so much money in 
such a short time. That issue was caused by events that arent linked to the mistakes Ive 
seen Wesleyan made. So Im not going to have them try to put that upset right.
But Mr M would have been a little better informed about the rate the investments value was 
dropping, if the service here had been better. That could have made the situation a little 
easier to understand. In turn, that may have reduced some of the upset Mr M felt.
And  if thered been no delay  Mr M wouldnt have had the worry that the delay processing 
his request was causing him to continue to lose money. 
In those circumstances, I think its appropriate for some compensation to be paid, to 
acknowledge that the mistakes added to the upset and worry Mr M felt.
Ive decided a total of £200 should be paid here. That amount acknowledges theres been an 
emotional impact on Mr M, but stops short of saying all the upset hes felt comes from 
Wesleyans mistakes. It reflects that a lot of what hes upset about is the fall in value of the 
investment, which isnt due to a mistake or unreasonable service by Wesleyan.
My final decisionI partly uphold Mr Ms complaint about Wesleyan Assurance Society. To put things right, 
they should pay Mr M a total of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset their mistakes 
added to the situation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman