DRN-3823085
The complaint
Mr E complains about issues hes experienced with his HSBC UK Bank plcs mobile banking 
application.
What happened
Mr E holds a bank account with HSBC. One of the features of Mr Es account is a mobile 
telephone banking application (app), that allows him to bank online using his mobile phone. 
Over a number of months, Mr E has experienced difficulty accessing the app, with it 
regularly crashing, which in turn has prevented him from accessing his mobile banking when 
needed. Unhappy with this, Mr E complained to HSBC.  
HSBC said there was a known issue for customers accessing the android version of their 
mobile banking platform, but said that their IT team were working hard to fix the problem so 
that customers didnt experience intermittent issues moving forward. They advised Mr E to 
keep an eye out for any updates to the app via his app store. And they apologised for the 
service hed received so far. So they paid him £50 by way of compensation. Unhappy with 
this, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He also complained about HSBCs lack of 
response when he contacted them following their final response letter (FRL).
An investigator considered the matter, but didnt recommend Mr Es complaint was upheld. 
He said, HSBC had accepted responsibility for the failing with the app. He also pointed to 
HSBCs terms that discussed digital platforms, which explain that HSBC will take 
reasonable care to make sure that they work as described, but you shouldnt solely rely on 
them and we wont be responsible if they dont always work as you expect. 
The investigator did accept that HSBC couldve provided better service when Mr E contacted 
them in relation to the final response letter he received. But ultimately, he felt the £50 
compensation paid was sufficient, to reflect the impact that the above wouldve had on Mr E. 
But Mr E remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the correspondence received from both parties, including a summary provided by 
Mr E, it seems that Mr E has made in the region of 17 separate complaints to HSBC about 
different things he is unhappy with. But to be clear, my decision will only focus on Mr Es 
complaint about the issues he experienced with his mobile banking application.
Id like to start by saying that I appreciate it must be inconvenient for Mr E to continue to 
experience what seem to be ongoing issues accessing his mobile banking app. As a 
common way for customers to access their accounts, I can imagine that a periodic lack of 
access to this facility would be very frustrating. And this meant Mr E had to access his 
account in other ways at times. 
But, while frustrating, I have taken account of what HSBC have told us. Which is that they 
have been experiencing a known issue for customers using the Android version of the app, 
with it crashing or only working intermittently for some time now. They explained that their IT 
team were working hard to find a fix to improve the customer experience, but they couldnt 
give a specific date by which the issue would be resolved. They did explain however, that 
Mr E should keep an eye out for updates to his app, via his app store. So it seems, to a 
degree, that the issues were outside of HSBCs immediate control. 
Equally, section 6 of HSBCs terms and conditions  titled Whats our liability to you? 
states: We may also provide tools that you can use with our products and related services if 
you want to. Well take reasonable care to make sure that they work as described, but you 
shouldnt solely rely on them and we wont be responsible if they dont always work as you 
expect 
From what HSBC have told Mr E, it seems that the issue he experienced was impacting 
customers more widely. And it seems HSBC were taking proactive steps to fix it, and they 
directed Mr E to other channels by which he could bank while these issues continued. I can 
also see that HSBC previously paid Mr E compensation in relation to this issue. So, while 
frustrating, I think HSBC have done as much as I would have expected them to at this stage. 
Mr E is also unhappy that HSBC didnt provide him any further detail when he contacted 
them regarding their FRL, and I can appreciate why he wouldve been upset by this. HSBC 
did then write to Mr E to explain that the lack of response was due to the fact that once 
theyd issued their FRL, this was then final, and they wouldnt usually correspond further 
unless new evidence was presented that impacted the case. 
While I agree with what HSBC have said, I do think they couldve done a better job of 
explaining this to Mr E, so I can appreciate why he wouldve been frustrated. But as HSBC 
had issued their final response, they werent obligated to continue corresponding further 
regarding Mr Es complaint beyond this, so Im not expecting them to do anything more in 
this regard.
Overall, I accept this has been a frustrating matter for Mr E, but HSBC have tried to explain 
at each step of the way, what they were doing to try and resolve matters. They have also 
recently paid Mr E £50 by way of compensation. So, when considering all of the above, I 
think the compensation Mr E has received is sufficient in the circumstances. So, I wont be 
asking HSBC to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman