DRN-3960213
The complaint
Mr N complains about the customer service he received from I Go 4 Ltd (IGo4).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr N and IGo4. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr N took out a motor insurance policy with IGo4 in September 2021. In early November 
2021, Mr N contacted IGo4 to make payment of around £52 due to an issue with his credit 
agreement being cancelled. 
In June 2022, Mr N contacted IGo4 about an outstanding balance that he had been 
contacted about by a debt collection agency. After Mr N complained, IGo4 confirmed no 
amount was due and offered £50 to apologise. 
Mr N contacted IGo4 in September 2022 as he hadnt received the £50 cheque. IGo4 looked 
into things and said that the cheque issued had been cashed. It was later identified that this 
was incorrect and a further amount of £25 was offered (in addition to the re-issuing of the 
£50 cheque). 
As he remained unhappy, Mr N referred his complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that IGo4 pay Mr N 
£150 to recognise the impact of their actions. Mr N felt this wasnt enough and IGo4 felt it 
was too much. The complaint has now been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. In a recent response, IGo4 
referred to two final response letters and our Service considering the entirety of the Mr Ns 
experience. Id refer to an email from 6 January 2023 when our Investigator asked IGo4 if 
they consented to our Service considering the entirety of the complaint, IGo4 stated: As its 
within the six months timeframe, you can investigate this as one. 
Its important to state here that a large part of Mr Ns complaint refers to data protection 
issues and how his personal data was processed by IGo4. For example, Mr N has asked our 
Service to comment specifically on GDPR. Any such concerns would be better dealt with by 
the relevant regulator  The Information Commissioners Office (The ICO). However, my 
decision will still consider the overall service provided by IGo4 and whether Mr N has lost out 
as a result.
As IGo4 have accepted that things didnt happen as they should have - by offering £75 and 
refunding the cancellation fee of £32.54, my decision will only focus on whether they need to 
do anything further to put things right. 
Having carefully considered the arguments put forward by both parties, on balance, I find 
that IGo4 havent gone far enough to put things right in recognition of the avoidable trouble 
and upset their actions caused Mr N. Although IGo4 have pointed to other complaints where 
lower amounts were awarded and we do have published trouble and upset guidelines: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience, Id remind IGo4 that our Service considers each complaint on its own merits 
and the referenced are only guidelines - not set award amounts. 
IGo4 have said that theyve already paid Mr N over £100. But I disagree that minimal 
inconvenience has been caused. These events happened over the course of a number of 
months and its clear that Mr N has been caused avoidable uncertainty and inconvenience 
by repeated poor service and communication issues. For example, Mr N experienced 
uncertainty when he was contacted by a debt collection agency and separately hell have 
been caused frustration when he was told by IGo4 that hed cashed a cheque after the initial 
complaint issues  when he hadnt. 
A total amount of £150 (including the £75 already offered, but not including the £32.54 policy 
change charge) is fair, reasonable and proportionate in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint. This recognises that IGo4s actions caused avoidable trouble and upset to Mr N. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ns detriment arguments and find this to be a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve this dispute between him and IGo4. This award isnt intended to indemnify  
Mr N for any further action (through alternative dispute resolution channels) he has indicated 
he may be considering against IGo4. 
Putting things right
I direct I Go 4 Ltd (IGo4) to pay Mr N a total of £150 to recognise the impact of their actions 
on him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct I Go 4 Ltd (IGo4) to follow my direction, as set out under the 
heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman