DRN-2641370
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about the amount of compensation Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) has offered to settle their complaint about a mis-sold PPI policy taken out 
alongside a loan.
 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs H took out a loan in July 1998 and at the same time took out a PPI policy to 
cover their repayments in the circumstances of sickness, accident or unemployment.
Mrs and Mrs H complained the PPI was mis-sold and Nationwide agreed to uphold the 
complaint. Nationwide calculated the compensation due to Mr and Mrs H was £6,194.96 
after tax. But Nationwide said Mr and Mrs H hadnt fully repaid the loan account and so it 
was setting this compensation against the amount still outstanding, and there was nothing 
due to be paid directly to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with this as they said they had repaid most of their loan. They 
said they had got into financial difficulties in 2001 and agreed with Nationwide to make some 
reduced payments. When the loan term ended in 2005 Mr and Mrs H continued making 
some payments and entered into a repayment plan through a debt management company 
from September 2006 to February 2019. 
Mr and Mrs H said there was a far less debt outstanding than Nationwide has said, and most 
of the compensation was due to them directly.
Nationwide didnt agree any compensation was due to be paid to them directly, so Mr and 
Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January 2021 explaining the full background 
and details of this case and why I thought the £6,194.96 compensation should be paid 
directly to Mr and Mrs H.
Nationwide has responded to my provisional decision indicating it agrees with my findings.
Mr and Mrs H havent responded to my provisional decision, despite being chased for 
confirmation of receipt and a response. So I have no further information or evidence to 
consider from them before making my final decision.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr and Mrs H took out a joint loan in July 1998 and at the same time purchased a PPI 
policy.
 
When Mr and Mrs H complained the PPI was mis-sold Nationwide agreed to uphold the 
complaint and offered compensation of £6,194.96, after tax, to settle the complaint. But 
Nationwide said there was still arrears on the account of r £7,761.27, so it was setting the 
compensation against theses arrears, which meant nothing was due to be paid to Mr and 
Mrs H. 
As Nationwide has agreed to uphold the complaint, I am not looking at how the PPI came to 
be mis-sold. In this decision I am considering if the compensation calculated is correct and if 
it is fair that Nationwide should set this amount against what it says is an outstanding debt 
on the account or if any compensation should be paid directly to Mr and Mrs H.
Looking at how Nationwide has calculated the compensation amount, I can see it has 
included the full costs of the PPI premium and interest caused by that premium, then worked 
out compensatory interest on this for the time Mr and Mrs H were out of pocket to the date of 
payment. The payment here was made to the loan account debt in July 2019. It has also 
deducted a claim payment that was made to Mr H in July and August 1999 of £228.48.
I think what the business has done in working out the compensation is fair. This resulted in a 
compensation amount due of £6,194.96 after tax. So the question then remains if the debt 
Nationwide says was still owed on the account of £7,761.27 is correct, and if the 
compensation amount can be set against it.
The loan Mr and Mrs H took out in July 1998, was to run for seven years, to July 2005. The 
cost of the PPI premium was £2,680.48 and this amount was also borrowed and added to 
the loan amount Mr and Mrs H wanted for their own use, which was £10,850. The interest 
due to be paid over the full term of the loan was £1,252.40 on the PPI premium amount, and 
£5,072.20 interest on the loan amount Mr and Mrs H wanted for their own use. 
This made the total to be repaid over the seven-year period, including the cost of the PPI 
and all interest, £19,855.58. Without any PPI being taken out Mr and Mrs H would have paid 
a total of £15,922.70 for their loan over the seven-year term of the loan.
From the start of the loan repayments in July 1998 until January 2001 Mr and Mrs H paid the 
regular monthly repayments of £236.37. But in 2001 they got into some financial difficulties. 
At this point Nationwide has told us there would have been a balance outstanding of 
£12,763.98. This balance was the total loan amount with interest of £19,855.08 less the 30 
full payments made of £236.37 (£7,091.10).
Mr and Mrs H did not, however, fully default on the loan at this time, but tried their best to 
make some small payments towards the loan, as and when they could. Between May 2001 
and September 2006 Mr and Mrs H made small irregular payments towards repaying the 
debt.
Nationwide appear to have agreed to these reduced payments, as it did not default the loan. 
If it had, it would have stopped any further interest charged on the outstanding debt amount 
at default and not made any late payment charges, as is normal in such circumstances. 
But in this case, whilst seeming to agree to reduced payments from Mr and Mrs H, 
Nationwide continued charging the full interest to the loan and also made late payment 
charges to the account every month. These late payment charges were of varying amounts 
and were increasing monthly amounts over time. So basically, the loan amount outstanding 
was increased, rather than being reduced, by the payments made by Mr and Mrs H during 
their difficult times from 2001 until 2005.In July 2005, which was the end of the loan term, there was no further interest applied and 
the late payment charges also stopped, as the loan agreement had technically ended. So 
the debt outstanding at this point included all the loan interest and late charges applied to 
the account. The total of the late charges applied was £3,274.12.
Although I have requested information about the level of late charges, Nationwide have been 
unable to explain the amounts actually charged and why these increased over time. It says it 
was so long ago it does not still have the specific terms and conditions to show the charging 
structure, but it is confident the charges made at the time were correct. It has said the way 
accounts with arrears are now managed are very different to what the situation was in 2001.
Correspondence has been provided from a Debt Collection Service that was acting on behalf 
of Nationwide after the end of the loan term for recovery of the debt outstanding. A letter 
dated 21 September 2006 from this Debt Service indicates to Mr and Mrs H that the amount 
still unpaid is £12,032.88. This was after the loan term had ended so this figure would have 
included all loan amounts, interest and charges due.
At this time Mr and Mrs H were provided support by a Debt Management agency and a more 
formal arrangement was entered into for regular repayments to be made to the debt. 
Between September 2006 and February 2019, Mr and Mrs H made further payments, 
through this arrangement that was set up, of £6,985.44. The Debt Management Agency has 
provided information to show this figure based on the payments made.
The records from Nationwide also show that between March 2019 and September 2019 
Mr and Mrs H paid a further £372.84. So, in total from September 2006 to September 2019 it 
seems Mr and Mrs paid £7,358.28 towards the debt on the account.
Taking this £7,358.28, from the amount of £12,032.88 indicated to Mr and Mrs H by the debt 
recovery agent for Nationwide in September 2006, would leave a balance of £4,674.60 still 
outstanding. 
However, this is not the same amount Nationwide has indicated was due in 2019 when it 
made the set off of the compensation against the debt outstanding. Nationwide say its 
records show the balance outstanding in 2019 was £7,761.27. So it used all the 
compensation to set against this amount. 
If there is a debt owing on an account, it is considered fair to use the compensation a 
business owes to a consumer against the debt the consumer owes to the business. 
That would seem fair to be applied in this case, but I am not satisfied that the amount 
outstanding was £7,761.27, based on the evidence presented. The figures stated in the 
correspondence from the debt service acting for Nationwide and those provided from the 
debt management company assisting Mr and Mrs H, indicate the figure outstanding was 
£4,674.60. So the compensation amount should have been set against this lower figure, and 
the amount not needed for the debt should have been paid to Mr and Mrs H.
Looking at what I have seen overall in this case, I have some concerns about how 
Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs H when they had their financial problems. When a customer 
gets into financial problems and tries to continue making payments to their loan, it is quite 
common for a business to agree an arrangement where lower month repayments are made 
to repay the loan and also to stop charging interest on the borrowings. That is seen as fair. 
In this case that didnt happen. Nationwide knew Mr and Mrs H were having problems and it 
seems they accepted lower and erratic payments from 2001 to 2006 but interest and also 
late payment charges were still made to the account. Nationwide has agreed to refund the late payment charges, which I think is the right thing to 
do. If this amount for the charges (£3,274.12), is removed from the balance still owed for the 
loan of £4,674.60 (that I have indicated above), this leaves an outstanding balance of 
£1,400.48. If this debt amount is set against the PPI compensation due of £6,194.96, it gives 
a figure of £4,794.48. Which would be the amount that should have been paid to Mr and 
Mrs H directly in 2019.
Putting things right
 Taking all the evidence into account, I think it most likely that Mr and Mrs H didnt quite fully 
repay the debt they owed, so some set off may normally be appropriate. But as I have 
indicated, I have some concerns that Nationwide may not have treated then fairly when they 
made every effort to continue repayments to the debt when in financial difficulties.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think the fairest resolution to this complaint is for 
Nationwide to pay the full amount of PPI compensation of £6,194.96 directly to Mr and Mrs H 
and any balance still shown as outstanding on the loan account should be totally written off. 
Nationwide has responded to my provisional decision agreeing to do this.
This means the £6,194.96 paid directly to Mr and Mrs H, compensates them for the mis-sold 
PPI, and by not setting this against the outstanding debt of £1,400.48 means the amount 
they receive provides additional compensation for any further compensatory interest that 
may have be due for being out of pocket since 2019. It also provides some compensation for 
the way Nationwide has dealt with Mr and Mrs H throughout its dealings with this loan 
account and complaint. The debt remaining on the loan account should also be totally 
cleared by Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs H have made no further submissions or comments in response to my provisional 
decision. So I have seen nothing to make me consider changing the findings of my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, I am directing that Nationwide Building Society pay the 
full amount of compensation calculated, £6,194.96, directly to Mr and Mrs H to settle their 
complaint about the mis-sold PPI. Also, that any amount still shown as outstanding on Mr 
and Mrs Hs loan account be cleared completely. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman