DRN-2762333
The complaint
Mr W complains that his claim for a stolen watch and wallet has been unfairly declined under 
his home insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
Mr W said that in late November 2019 he was robbed by two men on his doorstep of his 
watch and his wallet, containing bank card and the warranty for the watch. He reported the 
incident to the police and provided the police with a statement. 
AXA sent its loss adjusters to validate the claim. They interviewed Mr W and obtained a 
signed statement from him in January 2020. They also obtained a copy of the police report 
and said they had identified inconsistencies in the information Mr W had provided. The 
police report states that a handgun and knife were reportedly used in the robbery. It doesnt 
suggest that any investigation was carried out and records the incident as resolved. 
Mr W had made a claim with his previous insurer in 2019 for the loss of two high-value 
watches in a burglary at his home. Following payment of this claim he said he bought a 
replacement watch for around £32,000 and changed his cover. It is this replacement watch 
that he has claimed for with his present claim. His insurer applied an excess for thefts of 
£8,250 and an endorsement for forced entry or violence. 
AXAs loss adjusters wrote to Mr W in April and May 2020 setting out their concerns about 
the claim. They said Mr W was unsure of the date of the robbery and gave differing accounts 
of who lived at the property, who was in the property at the time, whether or not he was 
expecting anyone to arrive, and whether or not he was married. They said Mr W had given 
inconsistent accounts of which of the two robbers had demanded his watch. 
The loss adjusters requested photos of the watch box used by Mr W and of him wearing the 
watch. They requested evidence of his employment and a bank statement at the time of the 
incident and confirmation of his bank card being cancelled. The loss adjusters requested 
details of Mr Ws criminal convictions saying that he hadnt disclosed the full extent of his 
convictions. They said the claim wouldnt be accepted until these issues were resolved.
Mr W replied in May 2020 saying hed provided proof of purchase and a crime reference 
number and his claim should be paid. The loss adjusters wrote again in June and July 2020 
and said he hadnt dealt with any of the inconsistencies and AXA wouldnt accept his claim 
until hed done so. AXA said it chased a response from Mr W on a number of occasions, but 
hes been unwilling to assist or answer any questions regarding inconsistencies in his claim.
AXA thinks that Mr W has misrepresented the facts of the claim to gain financially from the 
policy and declined his claim for fraud in October 2020. AXA cancelled Mr Ws policy as it 
said he had not paid the premiums. Mr W was dissatisfied with AXAs decline of his claim 
and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said its reasonable for an 
insurer to ask for more information and to expect the claimant to provide it for the claim to be 
settled. She said AXA found a number of discrepancies between information provided by Mr 
W to AXA, its loss adjusters and the police. She said Mr W didnt resolve these issues and 
so it was reasonable for AXA to decline his claim under the fraud clause within the policy.
Mr W disagreed and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He said he hadnt 
missed points out or failed to answer questions and the only thing he couldnt provide was 
his bank information as he was no longer a customer. He said any discrepancies were 
mistakes by the police when writing the statement and they got names wrong. Mr W said 
hed provided proof of ownership of the watch and his policy doesnt require anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said that his policy doesnt require him to provide anything other than proof of 
purchase for the item claimed and a crime reference number. Since hes done that he thinks 
his claim should be paid.
Given the similarities between Mr Ws current and previous burglary claim a few months 
earlier I think it was reasonable for AXA to have concerns. AXA had information from Mr W 
from his police statement, his first notification of the claim and his subsequent statement to 
AXAs loss adjuster. AXA asked Mr W about a number of inconsistencies in these 
statements (set out above) and for some missing information about his current claim. 
Mr Ws policy states that when a claim is made the policyholder must, Provide proof of loss 
along with a full description of what happened. This is a standard requirement of property 
insurance policies and ensures that insurers gain the cooperation of policyholders in 
verifying their claims. It is common practice for insurers to verify contents claims, particularly 
high value claims such as Mr Ws. 
Primarily AXA wanted to know about the exact circumstances of the robbery and wanted 
evidence Mr W cancelled his bank card following its loss in his stolen wallet. This would 
have shown that he took action as soon as the incident had taken place and might have 
shown attempted unauthorised use of his card as might be anticipated in this type of crime. 
No bank statements or evidence of cancellation of Mr Ws card has been provided by Mr W.
From the record of communications provided it seems clear that Mr W was unwilling to 
address AXAs questions in detail about the inconsistencies in his information. From what 
Ive seen there are a lot of unanswered questions and missing information about the 
circumstances of the claim. I dont think Mr W responded adequately to the several requests 
for information from AXA and what he has provided isnt sufficient for AXA to have verified 
his claim. I dont think its sufficient just to provide confirmation the police have been notified 
about an incident, particularly when it appears the police have shown little interest in 
investigating the matter.
The policy states that, When You call the claims line, please; -Make sure the detail You 
provide is accurate and honest. If We detect false, fraudulent or exaggerated information 
when dealing with a claim. Your claim will not be paid and We may inform the police of the 
circumstances. 
AXA has relied on this term to decline Mr Ws claim and I think that given the poor response 
from Mr W to the several attempts it made to gain answers to its questions it was reasonable 
for AXA to rely on this fraud clause to decline Mr Ws claim.I havent considered the potential misrepresentations by Mr W concerning criminal 
convictions, county court judgments and other matters, as I think AXA had sufficient cause to 
decline his claim in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman