DRN-2447077
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Ltd charged him too much for his car 
insurance.
What happened
Mr T took out car insurance with Admiral in 2017. He renewed the insurance in both 2018 
and 2019. In January 2020 he called Admiral as his policy was due for renewal in February. 
He explained that hed found cheaper quotes from other insurance companies on price 
comparison sites and wanted to see if Admiral could match these.
Mr T spoke to Admiral call centre staff in January and February 2020. During the third call, 
an Admiral advisor asked what Mr T did for work. Mr T replied, Business consulting. This 
was slightly different to the occupation Admiral held on its records. By changing this, the 
advisor was able to offer Mr T a lower quote for his 2020 renewal.
Mr T is unhappy his 2017, 2018 and 2019 premiums were calculated based on the wrong 
occupation, meaning his premiums for these years were too high. He also believes the error 
should have been spotted earlier. He wants Admiral to recalculate those premiums and 
refund the difference.
Admiral doesnt believe it should do this. It says Mr T entered the occupation information on 
its website in 2017 himself and its quote was based on that information. Admiral says Mr T 
was asked to check his details were correct when he received his policy documents and at 
each subsequent renewal. It doesnt believe that it should be held responsible for the 
incorrect information Mr T submitted online.
Our investigator felt that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He accepted that Admiral hadnt 
done anything wrong, however recommended that it recalculate Mr Ts past premiums based 
on his newly recorded occupation.
Admiral didnt accept this, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 December 2020. I said:
Mr T originally took out car insurance with Admiral in 2017. He completed his application for
a quote online. As part of this process, he was asked to enter his occupation.
The Motor Proposal Confirmation document dated 22 January 2019 shows Mr Ts full-time
occupation as Higher Executive Officer. The same document for his 2020 renewal says the
same.
Both documents also say, Once you have checked this document, if any information is
found to be incorrect, please contact us immediately. I havent seen the original policy
documents from 2017, or for the first renewal in 2018, but I think its reasonable to assume
they listed the same occupation information and contained a similar clause asking Mr T to
check the information was correct.
Ive listened to all three calls between Mr T and Admiral in January and February 2020 when
he was renewing his insurance. During the first two calls, the Admiral advisors asked Mr T if
any of his personal details had changed. Mr T said they hadnt. His occupation wasnt
discussed during either of these calls.
During the third call, the advisor asked Mr T, What is it exactly you do for work? Mr T
replied, Consulting. Business consulting. The advisor told Mr T that the occupation Admiral
held on its records was Higher Executive Officer, Business Consultancy, and that changing
this to Business Consultant reduced his 2020 quote by about £25.
At the end of each call, all three of the advisors asked Mr T to check his policy documents
once hed received them, and to contact Admiral if any of the information was incorrect.
Im satisfied that Mr T entered his occupation on the Admiral website in 2017. This was
Higher Executive Officer, Business Consultancy. Im also satisfied that Admiral advised Mr
T to check that his details were correct when he received his policy documents in 2017 and
at each subsequent renewal. Mr T didnt correct this, so I think that he considered this
accurately reflected his job.
Admiral based its car insurance premiums on the information provided by Mr T. I think that
Admiral gave Mr T the chance to correct his personal information, including his job title, if it
was wrong. Overall, Im not persuaded at this stage that Admiral acted unfairly when it
calculated Mr Ts car insurance premiums.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt have anything further to add.
Mr T disagreed with my findings. In summary, he said:
1. He doesnt think the occupation Business Consultancy was an option when he first 
took out his policy online.
2. Admiral did not tell him that his occupation would affect his premium, either at the 
initial quote or at subsequent renewals.
3. He didnt understand why the premiums for Business Consultancy and Higher 
Executive Officer, Business Consultancy should be different.
Finally, Mr T did not believe Id been fair or impartial and asked that another ombudsman 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points Mr T is making, but Im afraid hes not made any new points that I 
havent already considered.
I think its reasonable to assume that an insurer asks questions for a reason, and that the 
answers given to those questions might affect the insurance premium quoted. So I think its 
reasonable to assume that entering an occupation might affect the premium. Mr T entered 
his occupation from a dropdown list and was satisfied that it accurately reflected his job. If he didnt think the options available accurately reflected his job  for example, that he was not a 
Higher Executive Officer  I would have expected him to raise this with Admiral.
Finally, I appreciate Mr T wants another ombudsman to review his complaint, but that isnt 
how this service works. If it was, each party could simply keep requesting a new 
ombudsman review their case afresh until they got the answer they wanted. I understand 
that Mr T disagrees with me and is disappointed by my decision, but I assure him that Im 
completely impartial.
For the reasons above, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman