DRN-2077319
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital Professional Limited (Capital) failed to tell him that the 
contributions he was making to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) had stopped. As a 
result Mr B missed 12 months of pension contributions.
What happened
Mr B was a client of Capital. He was provided ongoing financial advice. 
Mr B was making monthly contributions into his SIPP by way of a direct debit. In December 
2018 Mr Bs direct debit payment to his SIPP provider failed and the contribution wasnt 
made. The direct debit was then cancelled.
The SIPP provider wrote to Capital to notify them of the problem. Capital received this letter 
but failed to contact Mr B to notify him of the problem or find out what had gone wrong. Mr B 
explains that he didnt realise that the payments had stopped until December 2019, when the 
direct debit was re-instated. Mr B complained to Capital.
Capital upheld Mr Bs complaint. They identified failings in the service that they provided. 
Including the fact that they had failed to act on the letter they received from the SIPP 
provider, which they agreed they should have. They apologised and offered Mr B £500 in 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B will have been very frustrated with circumstances in this case. He 
expected more from Capital. His SIPP provider have confirmed that it wrote to Capital as 
they were Mr Bs adviser. They didnt contact him directly. So it was important that Capital 
acted on that information, which they acknowledged.
Capital upheld Mr Bs complaint and theres no dispute about the mistake that they made. So 
I dont need to decide what they did wrong. I need to consider the fairest way to put things 
right.
Our investigator spoke to Mr B after he brought his complaint to us. And Mr B explained that 
he didnt have the money to make up the missed pension payments at that stage. He 
considered that should be Capitals responsibility. I know Mr B will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I dont think that would be reasonable.
Capital were never liable for the contribution into Mr Bs SIPP. If Capital hadnt omitted to 
contact Mr B about the missed payments, then it would have still been Mr B that had to meet 
those costs. 
It was also not Capitals fault that the direct debit payment failed. Theres a responsibility on 
consumers to ensure that they have sufficient funds in their account to cover direct debit 
payments. I havent seen evidence from Mr Bs bank in this case but would normally expect 
some form of notification from them in the event of a failed direct debit. Mr B may not have 
received any notice from his bank though, but I would still expect him to check his bank 
statements. Had Mr B have been checking his statements I think he would have noticed the 
fact that his pension contributions had stopped quite quickly and could maybe have put 
things right sooner.
Mr B hasnt suffered a direct financial loss because the payments were missed. His pension 
missed out on the contributions of course. But he still had use of the money. The monthly 
contributions will have been spent in other ways. I understand the difficulty in trying to find 
that amount as a lump sum 12 months later to make a single contribution. But Mr B still 
enjoyed the use of the money.
For the above reasons I dont think it is fair to expect Capital to pay Mr Bs missed 
contributions  which over the course of 12 months amounted to around £1000. But Capitals 
mistake caused Mr B distress and inconvenience. Mr B is clearly distressed at the impact 
that this will have had on his pension fund. And it has caused him to lose confidence in the 
service Capital had provided him.
Capital offered £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that their mistake 
caused. And considering the impact it had on Mr B, I think this amount is fair and I wont be 
suggesting Capital pay a higher figure than this. Id re-iterate that this figure isnt a reflection 
of the value of the missed pension payments, but a reflection of the distress caused in 
finding out those payments had been missed.
My final decision
Capital Professional Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Capital Professional Limited should pay Mr B £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman