DRN-2405600
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the work National House-Building Council (NHBC) carried out 
to their property as part of a building warranty claim, and the time taken to complete the 
work.
 
What happened
A common parts claim was made under the warranty due to water ingress. NHBC accepted 
and dealt with that claim. Mr and Mrs B own two properties that were involved in the claim 
(Ill call the one where they live apartment one, and the one that they rent out apartment 
two). 
The balcony doors of both properties were replaced as part of the claim. Mr and Mrs B 
complained that the opening width to the balconies had reduced as a result. They were also 
unhappy with the length of time that it took NHBC to complete the repairs, and said they 
were prevented from renting out apartment two because of this.
NHBC accepted that Mr and Mrs B were caused inconvenience, and so offered them £850 
compensation. Unhappy with this, they brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought NHBC had been 
obliged to put right the damage, and it had done this. She didnt think that NHBC needed to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for any loss of rent. Finally, she accepted that Mr and Mrs B had 
been caused inconvenience but thought the offer of compensation made by NHBC had been 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Balconies
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about the restricted access to the door opening to their 
balconies. Theyve explained that they bought the apartments because of the balconies (due 
to the view), and that they particularly wanted a wheelchair user to be able to access the 
balcony of apartment one. The reason for that is because one of them has an illness, which 
may mean they could become a future wheelchair user. 
NHBC says the previous door opened internally, whereas the new door opens externally and 
has a restrictor fitted which is a manufacturer safety feature. That safety feature means the 
opening width to the balcony is restricted by around six inches, and is there to prevent 
people getting their fingers caught.
As our investigator has explained, NHBC was required under the policy to put right the 
damage caused by a defect covered under the policy. 
NHBC has explained that the affected apartments within the apartment block needed to 
have the doors changed to open externally rather than internally, because if they had 
replaced the door with another inward opening door, it thought this would have caused some 
of the same issues with water ingress to re-occur. 
That being the case, I think it was reasonable for NHBC to fit a door that opened externally. 
But the work it did should still comply with NHBC standards, as well as Building Regulations. 
Ive checked the NHBC standards, and these dont require balcony doors to have a minimum 
opening width. 
Building Regulations require that people, regardless of disability, age or gender are able to 
gain access to buildings and use their facilities. The relevant section explains certain doors 
must have minimum clear opening widths, and those include the entrance to the property, as 
well as doorways that facilitate access into habitable rooms and to a WC. They dont include 
balcony doors. 
Building Regulations do set out instances where a balcony door must have a minimum clear 
opening width, but thats part of optional requirements. Those only apply where theres a 
condition that the dwelling needs to meet the optional requirement as part of planning 
permission. As far as Im aware, thats not the case with Mr and Mrs Bs property. 
Consequently, I think NHBC met its own standards and Building Regulations when fitting the 
balcony door, and it wasnt required to ensure that the door had a minimum opening width. 
Having said that, I can fully appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. They bought their property 
in the knowledge that if one of them becomes a future wheelchair user, theyd still be able to 
access the balcony. However, the changes to the door mean thats no longer the case, and if 
one of them does later need to use a wheelchair, theyd need to have the door adjusted 
(presumably by having the restrictor removed, if thats possible) in order to access the 
balcony.
If either Mr B or Mrs B had been a wheelchair user at the time the work was done, then I 
think it would have been appropriate for NHBC to come up with a solution to the problem, 
such as removing the restrictor, at the time. However, I dont think it needed to do that based 
on the possibility that one of them may become a wheelchair user in the future. So I wont be 
requiring NHBC to do anything further here. 
Loss of rental income
The policy says that NHBC needs to pay any reasonable costs incurred for appropriate 
alternative accommodation if its necessary for anyone normally living in the property to 
move out so that work can be done.
There are general exclusions that apply for all claims. The policy says:
NHBC will not be liable for

i Loss of enjoyment, use, income or business opportunity, inconvenience, distress or any 
other consequential loss affecting you or any loss of value of your Home.The work to apartment two was due to start in August 2018 and finish in October 2018 - 
though the work actually ended in November 2018. Mr and Mrs Bs previous tenant chose to 
move out in 2017, and they didnt let out their property again until 2019. 
Under the policy, NHBC was only required to cover the costs of alternative accommodation if 
Mr and Mrs B had a tenant who needed to move out whilst the work was being done, which 
wasnt the case. I agree with our investigator that the above exclusion meant that NHBC isnt 
liable for loss of income as a result of Mr and Mrs B not being able to rent out the property 
whilst work was taking place. 
Length of time to complete the work
The original scope of works said that work to apartment one would begin in January 2018 
and end in March 2018. Unfortunately, that was delayed by some months and the work 
didnt finish until September 2018. The work to apartment two was due to begin in August 
2018 and end in October 2018, though this was delayed by around a month. NHBC has 
explained the delays were caused by a number of factors, including: - other residents, the 
weather, and unforeseen problems once the work had started.
Given the complexity of the work taking place and the number of apartments involved, its 
not entirely surprising that there were delays. NHBC anticipated this and asked Mr and 
Mrs B to sign access agreements for both apartments. Those agreements made it clear that 
the scope of works couldnt be definitive until elements of the building fabric were opened up 
and inspected, and that this could impact the sequence and timing of the works. 
Nevertheless, NHBC accepted that Mr and Mrs B were caused inconvenience. NHBC had 
also initially led them to believe that they would have a compensation payment, but then 
didnt proceed with this. NHBC thought this would have caused Mr and Mrs B unnecessary 
upset. It therefore offered Mr and Mrs B £850 compensation. Im satisfied that was a 
reasonable amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman