DRN-1647139
The complaint
Mr C complains about the decision made by The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limited 
(Holloway Friendly) to terminate his income protection claim and avoid his policy (cancel it 
from the start).
What happened
Mr C took out a short-term income protection policy through a broker in October 2018. After 
stopping work following an accident, he made a claim. This was accepted by Holloway 
Friendly, and claim payments were made. 
After obtaining later medical evidence, Holloway Friendly thought Mr C had failed to tell it 
material information about his health when taking out the policy. It said if it had known that 
information, it wouldve postponed his application for 12 months. Holloway Friendly 
terminated the claim and avoided the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr C had failed to 
take reasonable care when answering the medical questions on the application. She 
therefore thought Holloway Friendly had been entitled to avoid the policy, and ask Mr C to 
return the payments it had made under the claim.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, I need to consider the case in accordance with the 
principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA), which concerns misrepresentation. 
Mr C has raised a separate complaint about his broker. Ive therefore only considered the 
actions of the insurer in this decision. 
Mr Cs broker completed a medical questionnaire on his behalf. The questionnaire asked:
In the last 5 years have you had or suffered from any of the following:

Any back or neck condition?
 
I think this question is clear. The broker answered yes. When prompted for further 
information, the broker confirmed that Mr C had a slipped disc in his lower back, and that this 
had affected his leg due to the sciatic nerve. The pain had lasted for two weeks, and 
symptoms were last experienced in 2014. The broker also said Mr C wasnt receiving any 
treatment at the time of the application, and it wasnt affecting his activities.
As Mr C had reported no symptoms over the previous four years, Holloway Friendly agreed 
to offer him cover and didnt apply any exclusion for his back pain.
I see that Holloway Friendly wrote to Mr C directly on 29 October 2018 and confirmed his 
application had been accepted. It advised him a copy of his medical questionnaire had been 
sent to him separately, and he should contact its underwriting department immediately if he 
hadnt received a copy. It asked him to check all disclosures made and if any information 
was incorrect or omitted, to advise it in writing and that failure to do so may result in non-
payment of a claim.
The same day, Holloway Friendly sent Mr C a copy of his medical questionnaire. It reminded 
him of the importance of checking the details to ensure they were correct. And that if no 
response was received within 10 days, he would be deemed to have verified the accuracy of 
the details. It also advised him that if incorrect information had been given or he hadnt 
disclosed all relevant information then this may result in non-payment of a claim.
As Mr C didnt advise Holloway Friendly that any of the information in the medical 
questionnaire was incorrect, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Holloway Friendly to rely on 
the answers given in the questionnaire as being accurate.
Holloway Friendly says the information Mr C gave about his back in the questionnaire wasnt 
accurate. 
Ive therefore looked at Mr Cs medical history and I see that a few days before taking out 
the policy, Mr C had an appointment with a chiropractor because of low back pain and 
sciatica. The chiropractor described Mr Cs pain as being chronic in nature and said it had 
been present for six months, and was affecting all of his activities, such as walking and 
sitting. 
Given that Mr C had experienced back pain over a six-month period and had met with a 
chiropractor only a few days before taking out the policy, I agree with Holloway Friendly that 
he ought to have disclosed this information in response to the question asked. I therefore 
find that he failed to take reasonable care when answering the question. 
Holloway Friendly has provided a statement from its underwriter which confirms that, had it 
known of Mr Cs ongoing back pain when he applied for the policy, it wouldve postponed his 
application for 12 months. That being the case, Im satisfied there was qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Holloway Friendly is of the view that Mr Cs qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. CIDRA explains this means the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Holloway Friendly says that during Mr Cs initial call with his broker, he was advised that a 
back exclusion may be placed on the policy. So Holloway Friendly thinks Mr C deliberately 
withheld the relevant information about his back when the medical questionnaire was 
completed. Ive listened to the calls Mr C had with his broker. In the first call, he told his broker that hed 
been to see a doctor a few months earlier about his back, and had been advised to see a 
chiropractor. Later in the call, he told the broker he hadnt been entirely honest and then told 
him about his previous back pain from 2014. The broker advised Mr C that an exclusion may 
be placed on the policy for his back condition, but this would be confirmed when the 
application was completed and submitted. 
The following day, Mr Cs application was completed (by a different member of staff), 
including the medical questionnaire. During that call, Mr C was advised that any disclosures 
hed made the previous day would need to be disclosed again. Despite this, Mr C only told 
the broker about his back pain from 2014. He said he hadnt seen a doctor that year about 
his back pain, and that it had been resolved in 2014. Mr C knew that information wasnt 
correct.
I think Mr C wouldve known that the information about his back was relevant to Holloway 
Friendly as his broker had advised him the previous day that an exclusion may be placed on 
his policy because of his back pain. I therefore agree with Holloway Friendly that Mr C knew 
the information hed provided during the second call was untrue or misleading, and that he 
also knew this information was relevant.  
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for Holloway Friendly to conclude that the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Under CIDRA that means Holloway Friendly 
was entitled to avoid the policy, and keep any premiums paid. 
Holloway Friendly first put Mr C on notice in May 2019 that it was investigating information it 
had received from his chiropractor. Given that it didnt know at that time that thered been 
qualifying misrepresentation (or that this was deliberate or reckless), I think it was fair for 
Holloway Friendly to keep paying the claim until it had all the information. I wouldnt have 
expected it to assume that it was going to stop paying the claim and avoid the policy at that 
time, especially as the claim wasnt related to Mr Cs back pain.
However, once Holloway Friendly did have all the relevant information, it made its decision 
to avoid the policy, which Ive found was reasonable. As it had made claim payments under 
the policy that Mr C should not have received, I think it was reasonable for Holloway Friendly 
to request those payments back from Mr C. 
As Mr C has confirmed hes experiencing financial difficulties, Holloway Friendly has said it 
will be happy to arrange a suitable repayment plan, which I think is fair.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman