DRN-2060774
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline cover for 
a buildings insurance claim. Mr H has received a quote of £4,800 to repair the damage to his 
property which he feels should be paid by Lloyds.    
What happened
Mr H took out buildings insurance with Lloyds. The buildings insurance policy terms and 
conditions says Mr H is covered for loss of or damage to the property caused by a storm. 
 
Mr H contacted Lloyds in November 2019 and told them he had found pieces of ridge tiles in 
his garden. Lloyds didnt identify any storm conditions and, because Mr H wasnt able to 
provide an accurate date for when the damage occurred, they declined the claim. Mr H then 
contacted Lloyds again a few months later and explained he wasnt happy with their decision 
to decline because the damage might well have happened some time before he reported it. 
Lloyds then agreed to look at this claim which involved damage to the back of Mr Hs roof. 
Mr H also told Lloyds about damage to the front of his roof which had happened recently. Mr 
H explained that tiles had come off the front of his roof which led to water leaking through the 
ceiling. 
Lloyds appointed surveyors to assess the damage. The surveyors produced a report which 
said they didnt find any evidence of a storm having caused damage and the claim was 
declined. Lloyds then contacted Mr H and explained that his claim was declined.        
Mr H complained and Lloyds responded and explained that, when Mr H first contacted them, 
he was unable to provide a date for when the damage occurred so his claim was declined. 
That decision was then overturned and they then appointed surveyors to assess the damage 
to Mr Hs property. In the meantime, there were further poor weather periods which resulted 
in water entering Mr Hs property. Lloyds said that the surveyors attended Mr Hs home but 
werent able to see any signs of damage caused by storm conditions and felt that the water 
entering Mr Hs home was as a result of poor workmanship. They maintained their position in 
declining Mr Hs claim on the basis there wasnt any evidence of an insurable event to have 
taken place which caused the damage. They explained to Mr H that if he was able to provide 
any further information to support his claim then they would review it.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H but didnt feel that Lloyds had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Hs home insurance policy. This covers his building for loss or 
damage caused by storm. It also says that damage that happens gradually through wear 
and tear is not covered as well as faulty workmanship. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds shouldve 
looked into Mr Hs claim because Mr H felt the damage was caused by a storm.     
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question Ive looked to see if Mr Hs policy defines storm. The terms 
and conditions define storm as A period of violent weather defined as: strong winds with 
gusts of at least 55mph. Our service also generally considers wind speeds of 47mph or 
above to be consistent with a storm.
Lloyds initial decision to decline Mr Hs claim for damage to the back of his roof was later 
overturned when it came to light that the damage couldve happened some time before Mr H 
found out about it. I can see from case notes Lloyds have sent us, they refer to wind speed 
of 68mph a few weeks before Mr H discovered the ridge tiles. I have also looked at weather 
data around the time Mr H discovered the damage and can see that, on the date which 
Lloyds identified 68mph winds, there were peak wind gusts which meet both our and Lloyds 
definition of a storm. So, I think theres no doubt there was a storm around the time Mr H 
discovered the damage to the back of his roof. In relation to the front of the roof, Mr H 
reported this to Lloyds around the time of Storm Dennis, so again, this shows there was a 
storm around the time Mr H says this damage occurred. That means the answer to the first 
question is yes.   
 
Turning to the second question, insurers often appoint surveyors experienced in this type of 
work to look at the damage, and thats what Lloyds did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its 
reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the report when deciding whether to meet the claim. Case 
notes provided by Lloyds record that the surveyor found no evidence of the damage Mr H 
was describing. The surveyor also found no evidence of storm damage. The photographs 
taken by the surveyors dont show any missing tiles. 
The photographs do show large areas of the roof affected by mould. The surveyors note the 
cause of the damage as unknown defect but my role is to consider whether this damage is 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. The roof doesnt show any missing tiles 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest that the mould is something typically caused by heavy 
winds. On the basis of the evidence before me I cant conclude that the type of damage Mr H 
is claiming for in relation to the back of his roof is consistent with the damage a storm can 
cause. That means the answer to the second question is no. In respect of the claim for 
damage to the back of Mr Hs roof, I think Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining this claim.   
In relation to the claim for water entering Mr Hs home, and applying the same second 
question, high level storm force winds might dislodge tiles and then a rain storm could lead 
to water entering a property. So, given there had been two storm events which might well have led to water entering Mr Hs home, the answer to the second question, in respect of 
this claim, is yes.  
So, for Mr Hs claim for water entering his home - only, I will consider the third question. 
The case notes provided by Lloyds show that the surveyor did find water damage internally 
but felt the damage could be down to faulty workmanship. Ive looked at the surveyors 
report and note they have commented that the damage to the walls in one of the bedrooms 
and the bathroom was caused by unknown defect. So, our investigator asked Lloyds for 
more information about this. Lloyds say that the photographs show damage to Mr Hs home 
which can be attributed to wear and tear and gradual deterioration. They say, given Mr Hs 
home is only nine years old, it would be unusual for that amount of damage to occur in such 
a short space of time. Lloyds say consideration was given to the possibility that the builders 
used poor materials or that it was poor workmanship. It was for this reason that the 
surveyors said that the cause of the damage was due to an unidentifiable defect. Lloyds also 
say that the property was damp, as shown by the meter readings. They say this would have 
been due to the extensive rot to the window frames and the flat felt roof and was the cause 
of the internal damage.  
  
Im persuaded by Lloyds findings in this respect. The photographs do show deterioration but 
there is no independent evidence to show that the storms have been the main cause of this. 
There does appear to be patches of water damage to areas of the walls but this doesnt 
appear to be a result of water leaking from the roof. The photographs dont show damage 
running along the wall from the top but in central areas of the walls. This would appear to be 
as a result of damp which is supported by readings on a Protimeter taken by the surveyors. 
On this basis, the answer to the third question is no. 
I havent seen any evidence which shows that the damage to Mr Hs home has been caused 
by an insurable event and it does appear its down to poor workmanship and/or wear and 
tear, both of these not being covered under Mr Hs insurance policy. It therefore follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint. I cant say that Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Hs claim.     
Lloyds have explained that Mr Hs home was built in 2011, so Mr H might have the benefit of 
a 10 year warranty that he is able to claim under. This may be something that he wishes to 
explore. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman