DRN-4460562
The complaint
Ms C and Mr H complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling 
of their claim under their car insurance policy. 
Ms C has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Ms C or   
Mr H as Ms C throughout the decision. 
What happened
Ms Cs car was involved in a hit and run incident. Ms C says it happened opposite a building 
which had CCTV so there was a good chance it will have captured the third partys 
registration. Ms C says she contacted the building for their CCTV and was informed Admiral 
were able to request this. Ms C provided Admiral with the relevant details but, in their 
request, Admiral didnt provide the correct accident location and the footage retention period 
then expired, which meant it was no longer available. Ms C complained about this and about 
calls not being returned, excessive waiting times on calls, lack of communication and being 
sent incorrect information about a departments opening hours. Admiral responded and 
originally upheld the complaint apart from the issue involving the CCTV and the information 
about the opening hours. Admiral sent a cheque for £60 as compensation for their errors.  
Ms C raised further points about the parts of her complaint not upheld and Admiral then 
upheld both of these parts and sent a cheque for a further £100 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms C and Mr H. He agreed Admiral had made errors 
and recommended they pay an additional £250 compensation. Ms C and Mr H disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Ms C and Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.   
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms C. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. 
I think its important to add, I wont be commenting on every event, instead I have taken a 
broad approach to the overall service provided.
The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. Admiral accept they got things wrong by 
providing incorrect information in their request for the CCTV, not returning calls, Ms C having 
to wait on hold for excessive periods of time, lack of communication and sending Ms C 
incorrect information about a departments opening hours. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether their offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Admiral should compensate Ms C and Mr H for the worry and upset 
caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive 
looked at the errors by Admiral and the impact it has had. I can see £160 has been paid  
and I think this is fair and reasonable for the customer service issues Ms C has complained 
about. I can see the dispute here though, and what Ive been asked to decide on, relates to 
the compensation for the impact of the error relating to the CCTV. 
I acknowledge Ms C feels there has been a loss of opportunity now to pursue any claim, and 
losses, against a third party. I agree with Ms Cs point here, and I dont doubt Ms Cs 
testimony that the building representative informed her the CCTV did cover the accident 
location. Ive also taken into account that Ms C made all the relevant enquiries to establish 
how, and in what format, any request for the CCTV should be made. So, I accept it was then 
very upsetting and frustrating for Ms C to then learn, despite her time and effort in making all 
relevant enquiries, Admiral failed to provide the correct information to secure the CCTV.
Ms C says the CCTV wouldve led to recovery of losses such as loss of earnings, medical 
treatment and travel expenses she incurred. I do acknowledge why Ms C believes these 
would potentially have been recoverable but theres a number of variables I have to consider 
here. Any recovery of losses from a third-party insurer would be contingent on the CCTV 
clearly identifying the third partys registration, them being insured and also any claim being 
successful. Based on the information Ive seen I cant say with any degree of certainty the 
CCTV wouldve provided a positive outcome on these factors. As Ive mentioned, I dont 
doubt the CCTV covered the area where the accident occurred, but that alone doesnt 
persuade me the third-party registration wouldve been visible and that the third party was 
insured. For me to consider the impact of this against Admiral there needs to be a clear and 
reasonable causative link between the error and reasonable prospects of those losses being 
recovered. But in this case, I cant say that causation is established to a sufficient degree. 
I acknowledge this leaves Ms C upset and frustrated at losing the opportunity to establish 
whether a third party couldve been pursued for any claim and losses  and thats what Ive 
taken into account here when deciding what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be. And in this case, I think compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable and reflects 
the impact on Ms C of the lost opportunity to determine whether a third party couldve been 
pursued. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral have made errors in the customer service provided to Ms C 
and Mr H and their actions have caused a loss of opportunity to potentially pursue the third 
party. So, in addition to the £160 already offered, they should increase their offer by an 
additional £250 bringing the total compensation paid to Ms C and Mr H for this complaint to 
£410. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman