DRN-3787030
The complaint
Mr F complains that he couldnt access his TSB Bank plc (TSB) current account online or 
over the phone. 
What happened
On 29 July 2022, Mr F says that he was having difficulty accessing his current account 
through TSBs mobile banking app, online and over the phone between 7am and 12am. He 
said he needed access to his account to check if a payment had been received from his 
mother, so he could purchase a gift on her behalf. 
When Mr F complained to TSB, they apologised and paid him £30 compensation for the 
inconvenience. TSB confirmed it was aware of some issues on that day with some 
customers having difficulty logging in through both the mobile app and online  it has also 
said that its phone lines were affected too  however these issues were resolved the 
following day. Mr F wasnt happy with TSBs resolution to his complaint and attempted to 
contact TSB to speak to the complaints handler. He says he was given inconsistent 
information about when the complaints handler was working and didnt receive a call back 
when he asked for one. Mr F added that the representatives he spoke to on the phone were 
rude.
The Investigator looked into things for Mr F and they thought that TSBs offer of £30 was fair. 
They found that Mr F had been able to log in later that day to check the account and make a 
faster payment. They also explained that Mr F could have used an ATM machine to check 
the balance on his account. The Investigator thought that one of the representatives could 
have shown more understanding during the call on 2 August 2022, however, they didnt think 
that this warranted additional compensation.  
Mr F didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. In summary, he says that he attempted to 
log into his account more times than TSB have recorded. And he didnt receive a call back 
after requesting this twice. 
Because Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has already said that some of its customers had issues using the mobile banking app 
and accessing their accounts online on 29 July 2022, so I dont think it is in dispute that Mr F 
experienced difficulties at some point on that day. I also accept that its possible Mr F made 
many attempts to log in that havent been recorded by TSB. However, I can see that Mr F 
was able to log in later that day, as he was able to initiate a faster payment. So it seems that 
he was able to check his balance from, at the latest, around 16.30 that day. 
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr F not to be able to access the 
account earlier in the day  especially given that he was trying to check hed received money 
so he could purchase a present. But given that Mr F could log in later in the day, and the 
issue had been resolved by the following day, I think the £30 TSB has already compensated 
him with for the inconvenience caused is sufficient here. 
I can see Mr F contacted TSB by phone on three occasions between 30 July 2022 and 
2 August 2022. The initial call was on a Saturday and TSB responded, by email the following 
Tuesday. I dont find this to be an unreasonable amount of time for Mr F to wait for a reply. 
The email Mr F was sent on 2 August 2022, explained what he needed to do if he remained 
unhappy with the outcome to his complaint. While I appreciate that Mr F might have wanted 
to speak to someone about his complaint, TSB had already issued its final response on the 
matter  which included information about what Mr F needed to do next if he remained 
unhappy. I havent found that any representative was rude to Mr F  although I agree that 
the service he received during the phone call of 2 August 2022 wasnt particularly helpful. 
But I dont think the service was poor enough to warrant awarding Mr F additional 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman