DRN-1089393
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with her 
remortgage. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Mrs K wanted to remortgage her property and contacted TSB. She said that its staff tried to 
add her husband's credit card debt to the mortgage balance and to reduce the length of the 
mortgage; Mrs K said the staff then wanted her to take out a five year product, as opposed 
to a two year product as she wanted. Mrs K was also unhappy about the valuation carried 
out, which affected the value given (which then in turn affected the loan to value ration 
"LTV"). Mrs K complained about how all the parties involved spoke to her and the difficulty in 
getting information about her mortgage through an app TSB offered customers.
Mrs K complained to TSB, which included points not raised with this service. It said that  Mrs 
K had approached it to remortgage, and said she wanted to borrow extra money to deal with 
her husband's credit card debt with a shorter mortgage term. TSB said Mrs K then changed 
her mind and decided to just apply for a new mortgage to replace her old one; it denied 
pressurising her. TSB explained that its staff did recommend the five year product as Mrs K 
said she wanted stability, but Mrs K then said she wanted a two year product, which is what 
she got. TSB said that the valuation was higher than Mrs K expected and it didn't affect the 
LTV; it said Mrs K had been happy with the valuation, and was sorry she didn't like how the 
valuer spoke to her. 
TSB said that it had taken too long to deal with Mrs K's complaint, and there were difficulties 
in the legal advisers reaching her on the phone. It paid £325 compensation, together with an 
extra £50 for Mrs K's expenses, and confirmed Mrs K was registered for Internet banking.
Mrs K complained to us. TSB explained that it was possible to see the last 12 months' of 
transactions online, as well as the mortgage balance, and it was now possible to see the 
mortgage position though the app. The investigator's view was that TSB wasn't at fault. He 
said that both parties agreed at the first meeting there was discussion about adding Mrs K's 
husband's debt to the mortgage, and he didn't think it would be discussed unless it was a 
possibility. He said the evidence didn't support a finding that Mrs K had been pressurised. 
The investigator said that the valuation was required, but there was no evidence it affected 
the product offered to Mrs K. He said £325 compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
service given by TSB, particularly the communication issues.
Mrs K disagreed but didn't say why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I wasn't present at the meetings between Mrs K and TSB, but note that Mrs K didn't take out 
a mortgage which included extra borrowing to deal with her husband's credit care debt, or a 
five year product. So I can't say she was pressurised to take such action. TSB has sent 
evidence from the member of staff who has given a detailed explanation about what 
happened and her meetings with Mrs K, while Mrs K has simply said that she felt pressured, 
but not given any detail. I think it's unlikely that Mrs K was pressured to borrow more or take 
out a five year product as there's no reason for the staff member to do so, and the evidence 
isn't supportive of Mrs K as ultimately she didn't do either. And it isn't unfair or unreasonable 
for a lender to tell a consumer about different products in any event. 
TSB isn't responsible for the actions of the valuer. I've considered the valuation and the 
evidence, and I can't find that it affected the offer made to Mrs K. The valuation didn't result 
in a change to what Mrs K was offered. I note that Mrs K is able to access information about 
her mortgage both online and through an app, though TSB accepts that there's been some 
difficulties. TSB also accepted that there'd been some communication issues between the 
legal advisers and Mrs K, and that its service hadn't been good enough. But £325 (with the 
extra £50 to cover costs) compensation is more than enough to compensate Mrs K for the 
trouble and upset caused by the Internet issues, communication difficulties and service. 
Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, but Mrs K hasn't said much about 
how TSB's failings made her feel.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 
20 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman