DRN-1928762
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
third partys claim made against his car insurance policy. 
References to Mr G in this decision include Mr G and his son who is also acting as his 
solicitor. References to LV include its agents.
What happened
In late December 2017, LV contacted Mr G about a claim that had been made against his 
car insurance policy. A third-party cyclist alleged that, in August 2017, Mr G had hit him. 
LV wrote to Mr G and asked him to get in touch to discuss the claim. It also explained that 
this third partys solicitors might ask to see colour photographs of his car and want to inspect 
it. Mr G spoke to LV and said he had no memory of such an accident. 
LV wrote to him on 2 January 2018 to explain that the third partys solicitors were obtaining a 
copy of the police report. The third partys solicitor shared information with LV including a 
description of the driver. LV shared this with Mr G and further information as it came to light 
throughout the matter. In the meantime, LV told Mr G that itd be helpful if he could recall 
where the car was or what he was doing on the date of the accident. Later, Mr G sent it 
photos of his car which didnt show any damage to support the third partys claim.
On 6 January 2018, Mr G wrote to LV to say that the issue had taken a significant amount of 
his time. From this point, he also repeatedly told LV in numerous and extensive letters that 
hed consulted a solicitor, would seek to recover the cost of his time and fees, would pursue 
them in court and put deadlines on the time they had to respond to him and requirements on 
the role of the person who he wanted to respond to him. He told LV it shouldnt have even 
given this a claim reference or contacted [him] without first seeking some real evidence to 
ensure the claim was genuine. Instead, he felt LV had wasted his time by its incompetence.
Various letters passed between Mr G and LV as he was unhappy that the claim was being 
left open when he felt it was obvious that it wasnt genuine. He was also unhappy with how 
LV had handled it and that it then told him it intended to settle the claim.
In February 2018, LV explained to Mr G that it was legally obliged to set up a claim and 
investigate when a formal claim is made against an insureds policy. However, it apologised 
for saying earlier that month that itd settle the claim. LV explained the mistake had been 
made because a case handler thought the letter from the police with his details on it meant 
that the police had confirmed Mr G was involved in the accident when this wasnt the case  
something which was later changed by the police.
Mr G says that LV has lied to him throughout  he doesnt fit the description and the police 
have never visited him at home. He says the claim made by a firm of no win, no fee 
solicitors was an attempted fraud and questioned whether LV was colluding with them to 
defraud its customers, at the very least benefitting from increased premiums when a claim is 
left open.In April 2018, an engineer instructed by LV inspected Mr Gs car. LV also told Mr G it had 
passed the matter to their Claims Crime Prevention Team to defend the third partys claim 
on the basis it was fraudulent or a case of mistaken identity. It applied for a copy of the 
police report itself as the third-party solicitors hadnt sent it when asked on a number of 
occasions. It also arranged for a company to take a formal statement from Mr G, but he 
refused to meet them, instead giving a statement he wrote himself to LV. The third-party 
solicitors and LV continued to correspond about this matter with further requests for 
information being made. 
In March 2019, the third-party solicitors confirmed to LV that their client was no longer 
pursuing the claim. And in June 2019 (incorrectly dated in March), LV wrote to Mr G to let 
him know. At this point, LV said it had closed the claim and recorded it as a non-fault 
incident which wouldnt impact his no claims discount as hed protected it.
Mr G wasnt happy and so he complained to LV. In response, LV explained:
 
it was obliged to review the evidence from a claim to decide what the outcome would 
be including making its own investigations, gathering information and evidence, such 
as an engineer inspecting his car. 
there isnt any evidence the third partys solicitors acted fraudulently. 
that, whilst it must have been a frustrating situation for Mr G, it wasnt able to remove 
this or close its file whilst the third party was still pursuing him. 
it didnt agree that there had been any evidence of racial discrimination. 
it couldve been more proactive, such as in chasing the other party for information, 
and shouldve removed the claim from his record completely in March 2019. 
it couldve corresponded better with Mr G better, specifically noting the following 
times it didnt get things right. 
oTelling him it wouldnt be possible for it to challenge or deny the cyclists claim 
so itd settle the claim when it wrote to him in early February 2018.
oWriting to Mr G  in an incorrectly dated letter  to let him know the claim had 
been dropped in June 2019 when it had been told about this in March 2019. 
oSaying itd record this as a non-fault accident when it shouldve been 
removed completely from his record. 
 
To put things right, LV did the following:
apologised for the mistakes it made; 
confirmed it had removed the claim from his records; 
refunded the additional premiums Mr G had paid during the time the claim was open;
paid £300 compensation to apologise for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
Mr G told LV this was accepted in part payment of his costs, not as compensation. Unhappy 
with LVs response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. He complains about several 
key matters including the following. 
1. Notification  LV shouldve sought evidence before accusing him of a crime.
2. Settling the claim  LV told him his claim would be settled when he didnt agree to 
this and despite not having any evidence to support the third partys claim. He feels 
LV assumed he was guilty of a crime due to racist behaviour and practices at LV 
and routinely settles claims like this to financially benefit itself.3. Open claim  LV continued discussions with the third partys solicitors despite Mr G 
denying the incident. This caused the claim to be open as long as it was as they 
failed to ask for some real evidencerepeatedly lying, vigorously defending the 
fraudster and pursuing him with the excuse that they are required to investigate 
and he must assist them. 
4. Poor investigations - He wasnt given a copy of the police report until 20 July 2019 
and says LV failed to question the accuracy of the fraudsters account in it. For 
example, he feels that no doctor would diagnose a broken rib without an x-ray and 
questions how the cyclist could have cycled 15 miles from home given his age and 
with a wife who has dementia. Mr G says this suggests the elderly fraudster has 
either not got a wife or his wife knows of his illegal past and present illegal schemes 
to make easy money. And the documents hes seen isnt a police investigation 
report, its a personal statement to a busy and incompetent police officer.
 
To put things right, Mr G wants LV to:
pay the rest of his costs  which includes postage and solicitors fees of around 
£1,300 plus his own administration time which brings the total to over £12,000.
compensate him adequately for the worry distress and health problems that he feels 
have been caused by LVs handling of this matter over the past two years. 
 
He also explains that due to LVs request to inspect his car, he felt unable to part exchange 
and buy a new car at a significant discount. And when he took out insurance with another 
provider, this cost him more because LV had failed to remove the claim from his record 
before the renewal was due. This is something he had to resolve with the other provider. LV 
also wrote to Mr G about this in August 2019 and said that, when it removed the claim, there 
was an error and it was mistakenly added on again, but this has since been resolved.
Our investigator thought that LV considered and investigated the matter in the way our 
service would expect it to before deciding about how to proceed. He also felt that it was right 
for it to take the allegation made seriously. He explained that he kept Mr Gs concerns about 
racism in mind whilst reviewing the complaint. And, whilst he felt LV couldve done better, he 
thought the £300 already paid to Mr G was a fair way of resolving his complaint.
LV accepted the adjudicators view but Mr G didnt. He responded to make a number of 
points, including repeating some that hed made in previous correspondence. These points 
included the following. 
He believed it t was GROSS PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE [sic] when LV failed 
to seek any evidence before accusing him of a crime and a deliberate attempt by LV 
staff to cover up their incompetence and settle a fraudulent claim at his expense. So, 
he doesnt agree with the investigator referring to this as a mistake or error.
The inspection was too long after the alleged accident to be of value in a court of law.
He was prevented from changing his car for nearly two years due to negligence and 
incompetence of LV and their failure to inspect my car.
 
Our investigator responded to Mr G to explain why the further comments from Mr G didnt 
change his view of the complaint but an agreement couldnt be reached. The complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Its clear that Mr G has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read carefully. Although a number of 
matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I think are the main 
issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before 
arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its important to say that its for the courts to decide which party is to blame for 
an accident or, indeed, whether a party was involved in an accident at all. And, like all such 
policies, Mr Gs says that LV is entitled to have total control, defend and settle any 
claim. So, LV can decide how it deals with third party claims. This service can consider, 
however, whether LV acted in line with its policy terms and if it did so fairly and reasonably.
Notification 
Im satisfied that LV was right to notify Mr G of the third partys claim when it did. Its 
important to do this as soon as possible and I wouldnt have expected LV to investigate the 
claim before speaking to the policy holder. The policy holder couldve accepted the claim or 
be able to assist the insurance company in understanding more about it.
Settling the claim
LV accepts it got things wrong when it said it wouldnt be able to defend the claim. It has also 
apologised for this and explained how it happened. Often third-party claims are settled to 
avoid taking the matter to court, even in situations where the insured doesnt accept they 
were to blame. Id expect this to be a cost and risk-based decision which many insurers will 
take into account. So, I dont see anything sinister in the mistake it made to suggest it was 
deliberate or was a decision motivated by racism. Nor have I seen any evidence to suggest 
that the way LV has treated Mr G generally has been racially motivated, unfair or 
unreasonable 
Having said this, I think that this error inevitably increased the amount of distress and 
inconvenience Mr G was caused over and above what wouldve occurred if this hadnt 
happened. But Im also mindful that after Mr G raised this with LV, the decision was changed 
swiftly, and an apology was given. 
Open claim and poor investigations
Mr G disagrees with LVs interpretation of the evidence and says it shouldnt have continued 
discussions with the third-party solicitors when the claim was obviously fraudulent from the 
outset. But I dont agree. I dont think it failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised its 
discretion unfairly or unreasonably when investigating the claim as its done. Whilst the claim 
has since been dropped against Mr G, it doesnt automatically follow that the accident didnt 
happen or shouldnt be investigated by an insurance company following a claim.LV isnt in control of the process as its the third partys claim. The third partys solicitor 
determines when and how the claim is made - its not for LV to pursue. Even so, LV 
shouldve chased the third-party solicitor more after July 2018 and kept Mr G better 
informed. And it shouldnt have taken 3 months to tell him the claim had been dropped. 
Overall, I think LV has investigated matters reasonably. It spoke to Mr G, reviewed photos of 
Mr Gs car, asked for evidence from the third partys solicitor including the description of the 
driver, arranged for an engineers inspection of Mr Gs car and an agent to take a formal 
statement from Mr G. It also requested the police report directly in January 2018, after many 
requests and chasers to the third partys solicitor hadnt been successful. As a result of the 
evidence it gathered, LV ultimately concluded it could successfully defend the claim. And this 
is what it did.
The third partys solicitor delayed in giving LV details of the alleged accident and police 
report. And some of the things it did tell LV, such as the description of the driver and that the 
police had visited the drivers home, LV then shared with Mr G. This is what Id expect it to 
do. And I dont think this means LV lied or that it colluded with the third partys solicitor. 
I note that Mr G is unhappy with our service saying that we think LV has made errors and 
mistakes, as he feels LV has committed GROSS PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE [sic]. But 
I think they were errors and mistakes on the part of LV and so Ive referred to them as such. 
And, as were an alternative to going to court, I dont need to use the language that might be 
associated with one, like professional negligence, and I dont think itd be appropriate for me 
to do so in this matter.
Putting things right
LV put things right by removing the record of the claim, apologising to Mr G as well as 
refunding the difference in insurance costs to him. It has also paid £300 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr G would like significantly more than this  over £12,000 for his 
time and fees  as well as compensation. But I dont think I can reasonably ask LV to do any 
more than its already done to put things right. Ill explain why.
This service offers an informal dispute resolution process for which professional 
representation is not required. It was Mr Gs choice to engage a solicitor to complain to LV 
when he was free to come to our service and I dont consider it appropriate to make an 
award to cover the professional fees in this matter. LV also offered free ways for Mr G to get 
in touch and so I dont make any award for postage fees either  it was Mr Gs choice to 
write and send many letters to LV using paid for services like special delivery.
Mr G has calculated an amount he believes to be fair based on an hourly rate and his time in 
dealing with this matter  but we dont generally consider compensation based on an hourly 
rate or even a daily rate, rather we will look at everything and make a decision based on 
what we consider to be fair overall. I think its also important to say that Mr G was obliged to 
assist LV in this matter  in return for the indemnity it provides - and so time spent doing this 
isnt something our service would consider awarding for in any event.
I recognise that its a distressing time for any driver to be accused of an accident, let alone 
one as severe as this. But I have to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience that 
Mr G suffered because of a third party making a claim against his car insurance policy and 
its consequences, which LV isnt responsible for, with what LV did or failed to do that 
mightve added to that distress and inconvenience. Having said this, I agree with the things 
our investigator and LV have said that LV couldve done better. Ive also balanced this with 
the way the matter was handled by LV at the outset when I feel it progressed its investigation 
in the way Id expect it to. I say this particularly noting that it did so in challenging circumstances  in the face of threats of legal action and costs claims from Mr G, its own 
policy holder, which started within weeks of the claim being notified to him, a refusal by Mr G 
to meet with the company it appointed to take a formal statement and the difficulties and 
delays LV was faced with from the third partys solicitor. 
I think its right that, as well as putting things right, LV should compensate Mr G for the 
impact of its poor service. However, taking everything into account as set out above, I think 
LVs resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. And I dont see a compelling reason 
to change the proposed outcome in this case.
I note that Mr G has talked about the impact on his insurance premiums. As a third party 
made a claim against Mr G, LV was obliged to record it until this was closed or withdrawn. I 
appreciate that an error was made and this wasnt removed from Mr Gs record when it 
shouldve been but this has been corrected. While a claim is outstanding, it will show as an 
open claim which can affect insurance premiums. I note LV has refunded the part which its 
responsible for and that any new insurer will be responsible for any refunds for the most 
recent renewal.
In terms of the sale of his car, Mr G says in his recent correspondence that the way this 
matter was handled prevented him from changing it for nearly two years. However, Ive also 
seen that Mr G wrote to LV in May 2018 to say hed part exchanged this car and one other 
on 30 April 2018. So, I dont think he was delayed by two years. Also, I note that LV had tried 
to arrange the inspection since March 2018. Even so, I agree with our investigator that I 
cant see that this claim wouldve prevented Mr G from changing his car given his view on 
the value of the inspection and matter throughout.
In the particular circumstances of this case, and taking everything into account, LV doesnt 
need to do anything more to put things right. I know Mr G will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with LV  can do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman