DRN-3110289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) declined their 
mortgage application at a time when they were in financial difficulties and needed to sell their 
property. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Halifax, and they said they were struggling financially, so 
they decided to put their property on the market. They said their intention was to move to 
cheaper rented accommodation.
They said after several months of the property being on the market, and several offers being 
made, in March 2020 they accepted an offer of £140,000. The debt they owed Halifax was 
£173,000 so they sought assistance from a third party who is now representing them on this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C said the representative advised them they would need to apply for 
a negative equity sale. 
Mr and Mrs C applied to Halifax, but the application was rejected on 2 April 2020. Halifax 
said that negative equity applications are only available for those customers who are in 
financial difficulty. They said the income and expenditure they completed for Mr and Mrs C 
showed their mortgage was still affordable  therefore they were not considered as being in 
financial difficulty. 
Mr and Mrs C spoke to Halifax and explained their personal situation to them. They said they 
were vulnerable consumers and explained they have two young children, one of which is 
disabled, and the situation is causing them a great deal of stress and anxiety.
Halifax said they challenged the decision to decline the application at a more senior level on 
the basis that Mr and Mrs C were vulnerable customers, but the application was still 
rejected. Halifax said that Mr and Mrs C havent paid anything towards their mortgage since 
December 2019  the same time as the negative equity application was made. Halifax said 
Mr and Mrs C wouldnt be classed as being in financial hardship due to non-payment of their 
contractual monthly payment, because they had chosen not to pay anything; this wasnt a 
situation where they couldnt afford the payments. 
Halifax said the amount of arrears is minor compared to the loss that Mr and Mrs C would 
have  which would be around £40,000 to £50,000, if they went ahead and sold the property 
 because the outstanding balance is much higher than the value of the property. Halifax 
said there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs C would still be able to afford to pay the 
shortfall (which would then be unsecured) in addition to their rental payments on a new 
property, and could make matters worse for Mr and Mrs C.  Halifax said they felt this could 
be a detriment to Mr and Mrs C in the long run. 
Mr and Mrs C said they have been affected financially and emotionally and as Halifax 
wouldnt agree to the sale, they had no other option than to voluntarily surrender the 
property. 
Halifax accepted Mr and Mrs Cs decision to voluntarily surrender their property in August 
2020. Halifax arranged for a valuation to be carried out before the property went to auction to 
be sold. 
The valuation was carried out on 11 February 2021 and the property was valued at 
£115,000. There were three comparable properties also reviewed and two of these 
properties were valued at £120,000 and the third one was valued at £115,000. The valuation 
of Mr and Mrs Cs property showed that there was some structural movement in the form of 
uneven and sloping floors which appeared to be longstanding but could deter some 
purchasers and affect marketability. The surveyor said he reflected this in the valuation 
amount of £115,000.
The property entered auction on 25 March 2021 with a reserve of £112,500 but it failed to 
reach that reserve. It entered auction again on 29 April 2021 with a reserve of £105,000 but 
again failed to sell. Halifax said that a buyer then made three offers on the property following 
the second auction with the highest price being £92,000. This offer was accepted by Halifax 
on 30 April 2021.
Mr and Mrs C say they are now left with a shortfall of around £95,000 but it would only have 
been around £40,000 had Halifax allowed them to sell the property on their own for 
£140,000  which they had an offer for. 
Mr and Mrs C said they would like Halifax to base any shortfall on the amount of the offer 
they had - £140,000, instead of the price that Halifax sold the property for - £92,000. They 
said they also want Halifax to acknowledge the unnecessary stress and upset that has been 
caused to their family and would like to be compensated for the estate agent fees also. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy that Halifax didnt base the shortfall on the offer of £140,000 so 
they brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator thought that Halifax could have done a lot more to help Mr and Mrs C and 
didnt think they had acted fairly. She said they should reduce the shortfall by £23,000 which 
is the difference between the valuation of £115,000 and the amount that the property was 
sold for at auction - £92,000.
Halifax accepted this but Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Through their representative, they said 
that this didnt go far enough because they had an offer on the table of £140,000 so they 
believed that the shortfall should be based on that and not the valuation of £115,000.
As Mr and Mrs C disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this has been a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs C and Id like to assure them 
that I have thought very carefully about what they have said before making my decision.
After our investigators involvement, Halifax has agreed to reduce the balance outstanding 
by £23,000. This is the difference between the original valuation amount of £115,000 and the 
amount that the property was sold at auction for - £92,000. The crux of the matter here is 
that Mr and Mrs C believe that the difference should be worked out against the offer they 
received of £140,000. While I understand the argument that they are making here  I dont 
agree that the shortfall should be reduced further. Ill explain why.
I have looked at an email from an estate agent who has confirmed in March 2020, they had 
received several offers on Mr and Mrs Cs property and the highest offers they received was 
for £140,000. One offer was from someone who had a mortgage in principle and the other 
offer was from a cash buyer. The email also confirmed the estate agent had a range of other 
offers ranging from £115,000 to £130,000. The offer Mr and Mrs C received on their home 
exceeded the value of their property which was £120,000.  While I accept that there were two offers on the table for £140,000, the value of the property 
at the time was for £120,000. These offers were for more than the property had been valued 
at that time. But I accept that people are willing to pay what they believe a property is worth. 
The property was in negative equity. The balance outstanding at the time was around 
£173,000 so Mr and Mrs C would have still had a shortfall that they needed to pay to Halifax 
in order to clear the outstanding balance. Halifax declined the negative equity sale 
application because after completing an income and expenditure assessment for Mr and Mrs 
C  they didnt feel that they were in financial difficulties. Halifax were only able to agree to a 
sale in negative equity to those borrowers that were deemed to be struggling financially, and 
after reviewing the income assessment that was carried out  they didnt feel that this was 
the case. On reviewing the information that I do have, I havent seen anything that would 
make me think that Mr and Mrs C were struggling so I can understand why Halifax didnt 
think they were. 
A negative equity sale is a bank agreement to remove their legal charge from a property 
despite them receiving less than the outstanding balance once the property is sold. In a 
negative equity sale, a lender doesnt take possession and the sale of the property is 
handled usually by the borrowers  so Mr and Mrs C in this instance. If Halifax had allowed 
some of this debt from the negative equity sale to become unsecured, which is what would 
have happened, there would be an increased risk in them not being able to get their money 
back. I accept that it could be argued that Halifax ended up being in a worse position as the 
shortfall ended up being greater than it would have been had they accepted the offer of 
£140,000  but a negative equity application is very different to someone deciding to 
voluntarily hand in their keys to their property. At the time, Halifax were assessing a negative 
equity application, so they made their decision based on that alone. 
There is a possibility that buyers could have pulled out knowing that they were potentially 
paying more for a property than they needed to and there are a number of things that could 
have gone wrong between an offer being made and the sale of the property going through to 
completion. Because of this, I cannot say that Halifax were unreasonable in not accepting 
the offer of £140,000 based on the circumstances that Mr and Mrs C were in. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C felt themselves that they were in a very difficult position 
financially, but after reviewing the income and expenditure assessments carried out by 
Halifax, I am satisfied that they didnt do anything wrong here. The income and expenditure 
shows how Mr and Mrs C have answered questions in relation to what they pay out each 
month against the income they receive, and having reviewed it, I can understand why Halifax 
thought that Mr and Mrs C were not in financial difficulty.
I dont doubt that offers were made on Mr and Mrs Cs property but there was no guarantee 
that these offers would have meant the property eventually sold at that price. I have to bear 
in mind that the valuation of the property was lower than the offers made, and most buyers 
would want to get a valuation and/or a full survey carried out on a property they were buying 
 even if they were cash buyers. 
Because of this, I dont think its fair for Halifax to reduce any shortfall to the offers that were 
made of £140,000. I do however, think their offer to reduce the shortfall by £23,000 is fair 
and reasonable. The offer that Halifax have made is a generous one but there is no basis 
here on asking them to do anymore.  This is because it is against the valuation of the 
property that was carried out before they entered the property into auction  against the 
price it was eventually sold for. So I wont be asking them to increase the amount they are to 
pay off the shortfall. 
I do however, think that Halifax should have paid compensation to Mr and Mrs C. I think that 
Halifax could have explored Mr and Mrs Cs personal circumstances earlier than they did as 
I think this would have highlighted Mr and Mrs Cs vulnerability much sooner. Mr and Mrs C 
did explain that they had two young children and they were finding it difficult to live in their current home for personal reasons. I think this situation would have been apparent much 
earlier on. However, I dont think this would have changed anything as the options Halifax 
had were limited, but I think it could have helped Mr and Mrs C as they would have been 
able to discuss their circumstances earlier, even if the outcome would have been the same. 
This process overall did cause them a lot of stress and anxiety so I think Halifax should take 
that into account. 
I thought that Halifax should pay £300 to Mr and Mrs C for the stress and anxiety they went 
through as I think things could have been dealt with a bit differently. I contacted Halifax to 
explain this and they agreed.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed as they were looking for the shortfall to 
be reduced even further, but for the reasons Ive explained I think the offer that Halifax have 
made is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I direct Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) to:
Reduce the balance outstanding by £23,000 which is the difference between the 
valuation of £115,000 and the price the property was sold for at auction - £92,000. 
Any interest charged on this amount should also be adjusted unless the interest was 
stopped
Pay Mr and Mrs C £300 for the trouble and upset they have been caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman