DRN-4383091
The complaint
Mr M and Miss W have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unreasonably refused to 
pay their claim under their travel policy for the costs associated with having their connecting 
flight cancelled. 
What happened
Mr M and Miss W were travelling abroad for their wedding. They were scheduled to have a 
connecting flight to their wedding venue which was cancelled by the airline. So, they had to 
spend the night in the airport and bought a different flight from a different airline the next day 
to get them to their wedding destination. It was only when they arrived at their final 
destination, the original airline offered another flight which would have been too late in any 
event.
 
So, they made a claim for these extra costs to Great Lakes who said the only cover they 
were entitled to was for delay and this amounted to £50 each, which it paid them. 
Mr M and Miss W didnt agree so they brought their complaint to us. The investigator didnt 
think Great Lakes had done anything wrong. Mr M and Miss W remained dissatisfied, so 
their complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 September, and I said the following:
Mr M and Miss Ws first flight arrived in plenty of time for their connecting flight. They 
said this connecting flight got delayed several times before it was simply then 
properly cancelled. The airline confirmed in writing that the flight was cancelled and 
not delayed as Great Lakes said. 
In the policy it details the cover for a missed connecting flight as follows: 
B. Missed connection
Disruption of Your scheduled travel itinerary due to the failure or delay 
of any pre-booked Public Transport to the Trip destination point. 
This section does not apply to Trips taken solely within the United Kingdom 
or Republic of Ireland if this is Your normal country of residence, (except for 
Trips to the Channel Islands).
1. Reasonable additional accommodation and travel expenses of an 
equivalent standard (up to the sum assured) to the original booking, 
necessarily incurred to reach the booking destination.
Great Lakes said in its final response letter that it believed the flight was delayed. It 
offered no evidence as to why it thought this. More importantly the airline wrote to Mr 
M and Miss W and specifically confirmed the flight had indeed been cancelled. Given 
this I dont consider it was reasonable for Great Lakes to maintain it was simply 
delayed. It said this was the reason it assessed Mr M and Miss Ws claim as a delay 
claim only. And that basis I dont consider this is correct as their connecting flight was 
clearly cancelled. Therefore, it ought to have assessed on the basis of a cancellation 
of the connecting flight not a delayed flight. Obviously since Mr and Miss W were 
travelling for their wedding, time issues were important to them. 
Neither the policy nor the IPID mention that there is any exclusion for claims 
concerning the fact that a connecting flight was cancelled. If that was what Great 
Lakes intended, then I would expect it to detail this very specifically and that isnt the 
case here. Most people would reasonably expect a clause detailing missed 
connections would cover the type of situation Mr M and Miss W found themselves in. 
More especially considering this term seeks to pay claims for additional 
accommodation costs and travel expenses of an equivalent standard to the original 
booking. 
Further and more crucially I consider that neither the policy nor IPID suggest that 
theres any limitation on any cover for connecting flights either. I would consider that 
if its the case then it would be considered a significant exclusion or limitation which 
would require to be clearly highlighted in the policy under this section and the IPID, 
and that isnt the case here. 
The clause itself talks about the missed connection being due to public transport 
which isnt defined. More usually people are flights for missed connections when its 
the situation where there is no direct flight to their end destination and therefore no 
public transport would be involved in such connections. However, given its 
undefined, and not something that is usually involved in missed connections I 
consider this is confusing and causes ambiguity, which of course must be construed 
in the consumers favour. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I consider its fair and reasonable that 
Great Lakes now pays this claim under the ambit of the missed connections term to 
include reasonable accommodation and transport costs. Interest of 8% simple per 
year should be added. Less of course the total of £100 already paid plus any excess 
applicable.  
The failure to process Mr M and Miss Ws claim properly and under the delay only 
provision caused Mr M and Miss W some distress and upset. On that basis I consider 
Great Lakes should pay them £100 compensation in total for this. This is in line with 
other awards I have made in similar circumstances.
Mr M and Miss W agreed with my provisional decision. Great Lakes didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, and due to the fact Mr M and Miss W agreed with my provisional 
decision and Great Lakes didnt respond, I see no reason to depart from the outcome as 
detailed in the provisional decision above. My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do the following: 
Pay Mr M and Miss Ws claim as per the provisions detailed in the missed 
connection term, less the £100 already paid plus any excess. 
Interest of 8% simple per year should be added from the date Mr M and Miss W 
made their claim to the date it was paid. If income tax is to be deducted from the 
interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr M and Miss W for 
HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr M and Miss W the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and upset 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman