DRN-2143078
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs S. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1992 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs S was sold the policy when she applied for the account.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs S has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Mrs S filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
make by ticking a box. And I can see also that Mrs Ss name has been written in underneath, 
in the box where it says: PLEASE SATE WHO YOU WANT TO BE INSURED. So, what 
evidence there is, does suggest it was presented as a choice, which Mrs S took. 
Against this, Mrs S has said, I would never have ticked this box. That would mean that 
someone else filled it in, without Mrs Ss authorisation. The trouble I would have is that this 
would be difficult to prove, so many years later. And this was almost 30 years ago, and it 
wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember the detail of such a transaction after all 
this time. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put much weight on that. And it wouldnt be fair for 
me to make Allianz prove that it didnt do something wrong. 
It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ss 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs S to decide whether it was suitable.
However, Allianz did need to give Mrs S clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs S. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This 
is assuming she was given a choice, which I accept she says didnt happen  Ive explained 
my thinking on that issue, above.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have 
paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition 
to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And it would mean she could keep any other 
means, such as savings, in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs S took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman