DRN-1317883
The complaint
Miss P complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled her travel insurance claim for a 
broken tablet. 
 
What happened
Miss P damaged her tablet whilst on holiday. It was deemed irreparable by her local phone 
shop, with a replacement price of £479. She raised a claim with AXA who, during the call, 
verbally agreed to settle her claim for the full replacement cost.
However, AXA then settled the claim after deducting 35% for wear and tear, and £50 
excess.
Miss P complained to AXA and said they should not have deducted 35% as they had agreed 
to settle for the full amount. AXA acknowledged that the call handler had made a mistake 
and had not told Miss P about the reduction to the settlement figure due to wear and tear. 
They offered her £50 compensation, but Miss P did not accept this.
AXA said they were unable to fully answer her complaint within the required 8 weeks, so 
Miss P brought the complaint to us. 
The investigator thought that AXA were entitled to deduct a proportion of the settlement 
figure due to wear and tear for any items which were over 2 years old, as this was within the 
policy terms and conditions. And having seen the underwriting guide AXA provided, she 
thought the 35% reduction was fair, and in line with their policy. She also thought it was fair 
to deduct the £50 excess from the settlement figure.
The investigator did think that AXA shouldve told Miss P about the reduction for wear and 
tear in her first call, and were wrong in telling her they would pay the full replacement cost. 
She thought this was a mistake, and thought the £50 AXA had offered in compensation was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss P did not agree. She thought AXA shouldve honoured the settlement they offered on 
the phone and that she had been misled. She said she hadnt been told about the reduction 
until after the event, which wasnt fair.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I agree with the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons. I'll explain why.Firstly, I have considered whether AXA shouldve paid the full replacement cost in 
settlement, because thats what they said they would do in the first call. They have said this 
was a mistake, apologised for it and offered £50 compensation.
I think a mistake was made by the call handler. They shouldve made the reduction for wear 
and tear clear to Miss P when she first lodged the claim. However, when a mistake is made 
it doesn't necessarily mean the party making the mistake has to abide by what was 
mistakenly said. And in this case AXA have apologised and offered compensation. I don't 
think it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to be penalised further for the mistake they made 
here.
I also think it was reasonable for AXA to deduct a percentage of the replacement cost from 
the claim. Miss P has said her iPad was 8 years old at the time of the damage. Having 
looked at the terms and conditions of her insurance, the 'New for old' element only covers 
items which are less than 2 years old. It states there will be a percentage reduction for items 
older than this. This I think is fair, as it would be expected the older an item gets, the more its 
performance and condition will deteriorate, and its value reduce. 
I have seen the underwriting guide which AXA used to calculate the reduction. The rate of 
35% is used by them in claims for any electrical item over 6 years old. This is common in 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or excessive.
Miss P has said she didn't know about the term, but it is included in her policy document. 
This insurance policy, along with several other policies, were included as part of a bank 
account she opened. All the different policies were included in one, albeit rather long, policy 
document.
Having seen this document, each section of cover is marked under a heading, and the terms 
and conditions are then, I think, clearly stated. It says, in summary, that any personal 
baggage over 2 years old will be subject to a reduction for wear and tear and depreciation.
So, I think AXA were entitled to reduce the settlement of the claim by 35% under their terms 
and conditions, and have been fair and reasonable in their application. I won't be requiring 
them to do anything more.
Miss P didn't make it clear if she was also disputing AXA's deduction of the £50 excess from 
the settlement. For clarity, I think an excess on an insurance policy is normal and expected, 
and it would be unusual if there wasn't one. The terms and conditions of this policy clearly 
showed each claim would be subject to an excess, and this amount was shown in a table in 
the same document. So, I think AXA were fair and reasonable to make this deduction. 
As I've said above, AXA have offered Miss P £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused by not telling her about the reduction in the settlement value. I 
think it likely that Miss P would probably have accepted the settlement if it had been clearly 
explained at the outset. And as such I dont think Miss P has suffered any financial loss, but 
she has suffered a loss of expectation.
I think £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and won't be requiring them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss P £50 for the distress and inconvenience they 
caused her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman