DRN-4199015
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) restricted his accounts without warning or 
explanation. He also complains it closed his accounts, provided poor customer service, 
failed to deal with his subject access request as required, and didnt properly inform the 
relevant authorities of his previous account activity. 
Mr R says HSBCs actions have caused him substantive distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment. To put things right, he wants HSBC to pay him suitable compensation and 
formerly apologise for its failings. 
What happened
In early December 2021, following a review, HSBC blocked Mr Rs accounts and gave him 
no warning that it was taking this action. Mr R says he only discovered this had happened 
when his debit card payments were being declined in local shops. 
Mr R complained to HSBC. He adds that he wanted to know why HSBC had taken such 
action  but both in branch, and over the phone, he wasnt getting a satisfactory explanation. 
HSBC sent Mr R its response to his complaint on 17 December 2021. In it he was given 
referral rights to bring his complaint to this service. 
Also, and in summary, HSBC made the following points: 
- Its sorry for blocking Mr Rs accounts to comply with its statutory requirements but 
this will remain in place until the process is complete. If Mr R has salary or benefits 
paid into these accounts, HSBCs branch staff can seek authorisation for them to be 
withdrawn
- Its HSBCs policy not to discuss this process, so it cant provide any more details  
On 14 January 2022, Mr R was sent a letter from the police informing him that a court had 
issued an Account Freezing order against him for his two HSBC accounts in which a little 
over £22,000 was held.  He was also asked to provide evidence of his entitlement to several 
transactions. The order was issued for six months. 
Amongst other correspondence, Mr R sent a renewed letter of complaint to HSBC around 
April 2022. In summary, Mr R set-out ten heads of complaint: 
(1) HSBC placed a marker on his accounts without informing him. Mr R understands why 
HSBC and the police might not want to alert people in advance about their accounts 
being frozen, but questions why HSBC couldnt have told him through various 
channels available to it once it had taken this action
(2)  When Mr R first contacted HSBC to question what was going on, he was told 
someone would contact him in seven days, but this didnt happen 
(3) Failure by HSBC to respond properly to complaints raised on his behalf by the 
branch members twice in December 2021. HSBC did not contact Mr R as promised 
(4) HSBC failed again to contact Mr R by post as promised by its Customer Advocate on 
17 December 2021in relation to points raised about the account restrictions 
(5) HSBC failed to respond to Mr Rs letter dated 19 December 2021 when he had made 
it clear its treatment was adversely affecting his and his wifes mental health 
(6) HSBC failed to respond to Mr Rs letter dated 11 January 2022 in which he set out 
twenty points for it to respond to. These points ranged from explaining his account 
restrictions, why it had not told him about the restrictions, why its staff members have 
no information about this, why its communication was poor, the inconvenienced 
caused to him for having to cancel direct debits and generally the inconvenience, 
stress and embarrassment caused 
(7) Mr R raised a Subject Access Request (SAR) in line with the provisions of the Data 
Protection Act on 3 February 2022, and it appears HSBC mislaid this request for six 
weeks. He didnt receive this information until 8 April 2022 after having to instigate 
intervention through a HSBC branch  
(8) Whilst chasing HSBC for the SAR, he was given information by its staff member 
which later transpired to be fabricated because he was told a three-page response 
had been drafted and sent to him on 3 March 2022
(9) HSBC failed to provide all the information in the SAR which Mr R had requested, as it 
didnt provide reasons for why the account was restricted or a marker placed against 
him, and what information was given to the police
(10 HSBC failed to advise the authority now investigating his account activity of 
information he had provided in branch. This related to large property transactions he 
had made which he was now being asked about by the police 
 In May 2022, HSBC sent Mr R a complaint response. In short, it made the following points: 
- HSBC will not be giving Mr R a point-by-point response as he requested 
- Mr Rs accounts are currently blocked because of a Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 
Restraint order served on HSBC by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). It 
understands that Mr R is aware of this, and the associated legal obligations placed 
on all parties affected by its terms. And should Mr R want to regain access to his 
accounts, he will need to contact the CPS
- The block previously applied by HSBC before the order was following an internal 
review. This was done in line with HSBCs policy and terms and conditions of the 
account. This type of review does not require any communication being issued  and 
there are no timescales involved 
- A SAR cannot be completed via email and requires verification with its customer 
service team. The information issued as part of the SAR to Mr R, was that which 
HSBC was required to give in line with data protection laws. HSBC is sorry it gave 
Mr R incorrect information when he requested contact
- Mr R has confirmed he will be referring complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service based on this complaint response. Further correspondence will be issued via 
them  
Mr R then referred his complaint to this service. Mr R said he had no issue with the accounts being frozen. But he did have issue with not being told about the restrictions, and the 
unprofessional attitude and behaviour and performance of HSBCs non-branch staff. Mr R 
also set-out his complaint points as above. 
Mr R later added that: 
- HSBC failed to offer guidance on how he should live without his funds 
- As his funds were frozen, he had to delay setting up a new business he was 
planning. And hes had to defer planned energy saving improvements to his home, 
and make regular payment commitments manually 
- He had to open a new bank account which took six weeks during the Christmas 
period, and had to borrow money from family causing embarrassment
- They have had to put plans on hold, and the uncertainty has caused severe distress 
and inconvenience for which compensation should be paid
- The police have questioned Mr R on old transactions, some made as long ago as 
2016, but HSBC failed to ask him about them at the time. So its possible HSBC were 
negligent in the handling of his accounts. HSBC should have done much earlier to 
satisfy it of Mr Rs deposits made in 2016 and 2017 rather than waiting five years and 
passing it over to the police 
In July 2022, the court extended the freezing order on Mr Rs accounts by four more months.
In December 2022, the police wrote to Mr R and informed him that after examining the 
evidence he had presented to it to account for certain transactions, an application was made 
and granted by the court on 24 November 2022 to set-aside the order. They added that 
HSBC have been informed and its confirmed the account restrictions have been removed. 
HSBC say it received an email from the police officer on 29 November 2022 that an 
application to set aside the freezing order had been granted by the court. HSBC removed 
the account restrictions on the same day.  
On 6 December 2022, HSBC wrote to Mr R and gave him notice that it will close his 
accounts in 60 days time. Mr R believes HSBC pre-judged the polices outcome that he was 
guilty by closing his accounts. 
He also adds that the investigating police officer indicated to him in conversation that it was 
fair comment to his assertion that had HSBC done its job properly their investigation could 
have been altogether prevented. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Rs complaint. They recommended Mr Rs 
complaint be upheld in part. Their key findings were: 
- HSBC acted in line with its obligations when blocking Mr Rs accounts and in line with 
the terms of the account when deciding to close them
- HSBC does not need to give a reason when restricting a customers account
- They appreciated that HSBCs actions caused Mr R distress, but it was entitled to 
conduct a review and block his accounts 
- Complaint handling is not one of the regulated activities covered by our service. So they couldn't consider any points about how HSBC handled his complaint - that's a 
matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority
- The SAR request wasnt adhered to in the correct time, because of this HSBC should 
pay Mr R £50 for its error 
HSBC accepted what our Investigator said. Mr R did not accept, amongst other things he 
said the compensation did not cover his expenses nor reflect the adverse impact to his 
character. He also feels it doesnt compensate him for the stress he underwent because of 
the police investigation. 
Our Investigator then looked into Mr Rs complaint again and altered their position by 
sending a second set of findings.  In summary, they were: 
- They had not taken the correct approach to Mr Rs complaint earlier when saying 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity covered by this service. Though generally 
this is correct, as the issues being complained about here relate to an underlying 
financial service, it is something we can consider 
- Though its understandable why Mr R says HSBC should have informed him that it 
had placed restrictions on his accounts, it wasnt obligated to do so
- Mr R has referenced multiple occasions in which HSBC failed to respond in part, or 
at all, to his complaint points. But once referral rights are given to this service, banks 
arent obligated to respond to further complaints. Mr R received a final response on 
17 December 2021, after this point HSBC werent obligated to respond further 
- However, this service would expect banks to respond to any new complaint issues 
should they arise. HSBC did this as it sent Mr R a further final response letter on 
26 May 2022. Whilst HSBC didn't respond to each of Mr Rs complaint points, referral 
rights were again given to our service  anything not covered by HSBC would be 
considered by our service
- When an account is restricted by a bank, there is little it can do in terms of financial 
support or advice. In some cases, they may allow access to salary and/or benefits 
but this cant happen when a court order is involved. A failure to adhere to a court 
order can result in severe implications for the financial business. So theres not much 
else HSBC couldve done to offer support to Mr R 
- On the balance of probabilities, it seems most likely there was a human error as 
opposed to a lie or fabrication in relation to communication about the SAR. The 
impact of this error to Mr R was minimal 
- Given the information available, they were satisfied HSBC acted in line with its terms 
and conditions when closing Mr Rs accounts. When HSBC closes an account, they 
don't have to give a reason
- Whilst Mr R had given HSBC information about numerous transactions previously, 
the law enforcement investigation was entirely separate from HSBCs review. Law 
enforcement needed to pursue their own investigation and line of questioning to 
satisfy any concerns they may have had. Which I can see they did. Once law 
enforcement informed HSBC their investigation had been completed and the order 
lifted, I can see HSBC complied with this and removed any blocks from Mr Rs 
accountMr R responded to the second set of findings and said he would like his complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman to decide. He reiterated that HSBC should have done much more 
in terms of investigating its concerns by speaking to him before handing the matter over to 
law enforcement. 
Mr R has also asked for an apology from HSBC for the manner in which it has handled his 
complaint, to rescind the cancellation of his accounts, and pay him proper compensation for 
the distress and mental anguish its caused him and his wife. 
As Mr R didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Rs complaint. Id like to assure Mr R that I 
have not undervalued the difficulty of what he has said he has been through, nor how 
strongly he feels about his complaint. 
Much of what Im about to decide will most likely disappoint Mr R, so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr R and HSBC have said 
before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on HSBCs actions 
in regard to both of Mr Rs accounts.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Account restrictions, police involvement and closures 
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Mr R accepts that HSBC may need to review and restrict accounts. And, having looked at 
HSBCs reasons for doing so, Im satisfied it has acted in line with the obligations it must 
follow by carrying out a review and blocking Mr Rs accounts in December 2021. 
Once a freezing order was issued by the courts in January 2022, HSBC was under a strict 
legal obligation to apply it in line with the terms it stipulated. I note this was extended in 
July 2022 until the order was set-aside by the court in November 2022. From the evidence 
presented to me, Im satisfied HSBC applied this order in the way it should have. I also dont 
think any delay was caused by HSBC when it was informed about the order being set-aside given it removed any restrictions on the same day. 
Im aware Mr R accepts HSBC had to comply with court orders. This in turn brings me to 
what I consider to be the crux of Mr Rs complaint about the restrictions. That is, HSBC failed 
to inform or warn him about the restrictions which could have left him in an incredible 
vulnerable situation, and that HSBC was negligent and/or grossly incompetent in carrying 
out its own investigation before passing the matter over to law enforcement authorities. 
I can understand why not being told about the restrictions before finding out through declined 
debit card payments and speaking to HSBC staff members with limited information, would be 
incredibly frustrating and equally distressing. Though I accept forewarning would have 
alleviated some of the frustration, inconvenience and distress, it would not have given Mr R 
the answers he was seeking. Namely, why HSBC was acting in this way. 
But more importantly, Im not aware of any such obligation under which HSBC should have 
told Mr R what it had done shortly after restricting the accounts. Given its concerns, I can 
understand why it may have chosen not to. 
Similarly, Mr R has questioned HSBC as to why it hasnt explained why it restricted his 
accounts. I note Mr R requested this information as part of his SAR. But HSBC is under no 
obligation, that Im aware of, to give Mr R an explanation. What I can say is that based on 
the evidence presented to me, Im satisfied it has acted properly here. 
Mr R says that had HSBC carried out its responsibilities and duties properly before, 
especially at the time the transactions the police were interested in were carried out, then as 
alluded to by the investigating officer this situation would not likely have arisen. So he says 
HSBC have possibly been negligent. 
I dont know what the investigating officer said to Mr R, as I havent seen anything that 
speaks to this from the evidence Ive seen. But ultimately the police needed to pursue their 
own investigation to satisfy any concerns they may have had. Also, Im satisfied that HSBC 
had concern enough when restricting the accounts, and that it has followed the steps it is 
obligated to do so as part of its review.  
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before HSBC closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts, which HSBC and Mr R had to comply with, say it 
could close the accounts by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by HSBC, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the accounts in the way that it has done  by giving Mr R two months notice. HSBC had 
written to Mr R to explain its actions in December 2022. So I dont think HSBC needs to 
rescind its decision to close them - nor is it required to give Mr R an explanation. 
Mr R says this matter has caused him financial loss and the loss of potential income as he 
had to suspend his plans to set-up a new business. He also says its caused him and his 
wife severe embarrassment, distress and inconvenience. 
As I alluded to before, I appreciate this matter wouldve caused him difficulty to the extent he 
describes. But having looked at whats happened in relation to the account restrictions, the 
actions HSBC took as part of its review and the closure of the accounts, I see no basis on 
which I might make an award against HSBC. Thats because I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures or that its done anything wrong. 
So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate Mr R for any trouble and upset its actions in 
relation to the restrictions, review and closure of accounts may have caused.
Customer service and complaint handling 
Im satisfied that as the complaint points about customer service and complaint handling 
relate to an underlying financial product, I can consider them in my decision. 
HSBC responded initially to Mr Rs complaint about the restrictions in December 2021  the 
same month they were raised with it. HSBC apologised for blocking his account but said it 
was following statutory requirements. It also said it cant give him anymore information about 
it and gave him referral right to this service.    
Mr R then made a series of written and verbal attempts to continue to express his 
dissatisfaction. Mr R says he was given grossly unsatisfactory responses, and in some 
cases, nothing at all. That is until he sent a complaint to HSBC in April 2022 setting out in 
detail, and with definitive points, what he was unhappy about. 
Mr R set out a series of incidents where he was promised contact would be made with him, 
but nothing materialised. I have no reason to doubt what Mr R says here, and some weight 
can be afforded to what is largely a contemporaneous account. I can also understand why 
this was dissatisfactory and caused further distress. 
But HSBC were not obligated to give him an explanation for the root cause of his enquiries, 
that is why it had not told him about the restrictions or why they were imposed. And 
importantly, as it had given him a final response for this root cause issue in December 2022, 
which also gave referral rights to this service, it wasnt obligated to respond. 
I do note however that it did send Mr R a response in May 2022 to his complaint letter of 
April 2022, around which time he referred his complaint to this service. So though it appears 
HSBC have provided Mr R with an inadequate level of customer service especially by not 
doing what it said it would do in contacting him, Im persuaded it wouldnt have been able to 
help him anymore than it already had at that stage, and after the point it sent him its initial 
final response in December 2021. 
Its response in May 2022 after all speaks to the account restrictions and it not being able to 
give any further explanation. So I wont be making any award here for poor service or issues 
related to complaint handling. 
SAR request 
HSBC accept it caused undue delay in processing Mr Rs SAR request. It says that an 
internal process wasnt correctly followed by one of its staff members which led to it not 
being actioned in line with the required timescales. Im also satisfied from what Ive seen that 
it took Mr Rs follow up enquiries for the SAR to be properly picked up and actioned. So 
HSBC got things wrong here. 
I dont however think there was likely a deliberate and/or malicious attempt to obfuscate and 
lie to Mr R about this.  I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was likely to be the case 
here. None the less, HSBC made errors in relation to processing this information, so it needs 
to compensate Mr R for any distress and inconvenience it caused. 
In reaching what I think is fair redress for this point, Im aware that most of the information Mr R requested related to reasons about HSBCs restrictions and these werent provided. 
Given the legal and regulatory obligations that sit behind this, Im satisfied HSBC did nothing 
wrong and complied with the request for information in line with what it could do.   
So even though the SAR information was delayed, I dont see how this had a serious impact 
and detriment on Mr R. Given the inconvenience it caused, Im satisfied £50 is fair 
compensation. This information would not, and did not, lead to any material change in Mr Rs 
position.   
Other complaint points 
Mr R wants HSBC to send him an official apology. I have found that HSBC got things wrong 
with processing Mr Rs SAR. Im not persuaded an apology will put Mr R back in the position 
he would have been had this error not been made. HSBC have already apologised for this, 
so I dont think it needs to do any more. 
HSBC may choose to apologise to Mr R for any failed promises it made to contact him.  
Mr R says HSBC should have provided financial support and advice when blocking his 
accounts. HSBC explained that it might be able to let Mr R withdraw funds if they relate to 
salary or benefits. Once the court order was issued, HSBC were bound to follow it. So 
overall, Im not persuaded HSBC should have done more than it did. In making this finding, I 
havent seen that there was a specific vulnerability for which HSBC ought to have acted 
differently and tailored its services.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc must now pay 
Mr R £50 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman