DRN-1716954
The complaint
Mrs W complains Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs W took 4 payday loans between March 2016 and April 2017. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 29/03/16 20/05/16
2 £200 27/10/16 22/12/16
3 £300 08/02/17 21/04/17
4 £400 21/04/17 20/07/18
The latest adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Cashfloat to have granted the first loan. 
But he thought the remaining loans (loans 2 - 4) shouldnt have been given. 
By loan 2, the adjudicator thought that Cashfloat shouldve reasonably known that the 
credit commitments shown in its credit report, together with Mrs Ws other declared 
expenses, indicated it was unlikely she wouldve been able to sustainably meet her 
repayments for this loan  and any subsequent loans. 
Mrs W appears to agree with the adjudicators view. 
Cashfloat doesnt appear to disagree with what the adjudicator has said about Mrs Ws credit 
commitments. But it says that loans 2 and 4 are affordable when Mrs Ws husbands income 
is considered in the affordability assessment. For loan 3, Cashfloat says that Mrs W had 
indicated, in a telephone call, that her outstanding credit commitments had been repaid 
before the loan was lent  so her disposable income was then enough to repay the loan 
given the level of the remaining expenses. 
Because of this, the small value of the loans, and the repayment history, Cashfloat doesnt 
think it was wrong to have lent.    
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mrs W doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Cashfloat wasnt wrong 
to lend the first loan. It seems therefore that this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer 
think that I need to make a finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether 
Cashfloat did anything wrong when it lent loans 2, 3 and 4.  
For the lending that remains in dispute, Cashfloat had to check if Mrs W could afford to pay 
back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Mrs Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include: 
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, by loan 2, Cashfloat should reasonably have known that its 
more likely that not that Mrs W would struggle to repay her loans in a sustainable way 
because, based on the information that Cashfloat had to hand, it appeared her credit 
commitments and other expenses exceeded her declared regular income. So Cashfloat 
couldnt be confident that the loan repayments would be affordable for Mrs W. 
Indeed, for loan 3 there seemed to me no improvement in her situation. And by loan 4, 
Cashfloats own credit report showed outstanding short-term loans, a high number of home 
credit loans outstanding, and several defaulted accounts and credit in payment 
arrangements. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mrs W wouldnt be able to repay 
loans 2, 3 and 4 without undue difficulty. I appreciate Mrs W repaid some of the loans on time, but this doesnt mean shed repaid 
them sustainably. For example, I can see that loan 4 was taken out the same day that loan 3 
had been repaid and for an increased amount, suggesting she may have struggled to repay 
loan 3 without having to borrow again. 
Cashfloat has suggested loans 2 and 4 were affordable given Mrs Ws husbands income, 
which it says should be considered. However, Cashfloat appears to be referring to 
regulations that were not in place at the time these loans were lent  CONC 5.2 indicates 
that it might be possible for repayments to come out of income from another person, but this 
rule didnt come into force until November 2018. In any event, I dont think Cashfloat has 
shown it is reasonable to have expected this income to have been available (as the rule 
requires). 
Cashfloat has also said that Mrs W indicated her outstanding credit had been repaid when 
loan 3 was lent. I think though, given the extent of debt outstanding at this point according to 
Cashfloats own credit check, the repayment shouldve been verified. I can also see from the 
credit results for loan 4 that Mrs Ws recollection appears to be at odds with those results. 
So, Im not persuaded its fair to discount the credit commitments shown in the credit results 
in considering the affordability of loan 3.    
Looking at all this together, I think Cashfloat was wrong to lend loans 2, 3 and 4. And Ive set 
out what Cashfloat should do to put things right as detailed below.
Putting things right
In order to put things right Cashfloat should: 
refund all interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans 2, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove adverse information about loans 2, 3 and 4 from Mrs Ws credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Western Circle Limited 
should put things right for Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman