DRN-3949917
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss K was a victim of an investment scam. Miss K decided to invest in cryptocurrency after 
seeing a celebrity endorsement featuring a well-known celebrity discussing the opportunity 
to make considerable returns. As she had no prior knowledge of investing, Miss K conducted 
a google search and found a professional-looking website. She completed an online contact 
form and was later contacted by someone claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as P. 
The broker used a range of tactics to encourage Miss K to invest more money, including 
using jargon and lies. He convinced her to take out two loans totalling £15,000 and was 
given access to a portal where she could see her trading account. There were no specific 
expected returns, but she was told the investment would be better than a bank account. 
The broker asked Miss K to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency 
exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. When Miss K 
had tried to make a payment of £3,000, it was blocked by HSBC. In the subsequent call she 
was asked about the purpose of the payment. She said she was buying cryptocurrency and 
was given a very detailed scam warning, including advice on check she should do before 
going ahead with the investment. Miss K told the call handler she was satisfied the 
investment was genuine and the block was removed.
Between 27 June 2022 and 1 July 2022, she made five payments to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company totalling £12,442 (the payments were for £1,000, £999, £5,123, £3,321 
and £1,999). Towards the end of the scam period, Miss K applied for two loans for £7,500 
each to pay what she was told were withdrawal fees on the understanding the broker would 
pay off the loans. The broker said if she didnt take out the loans, shed have to pay 
commission. She realised the broker had lied to her about paying off the loan when she got 
a notification that a direct debit had been set up for her to pay off the loan. 
She contacted HSBC, but it didnt uphold her complaint stating it was unable to refund the 
money shed lost as there were no bank errors. It said shed made larger payments in the 
past, so the activity wasn't unusual. And it said it was unreasonable to expect it to know the 
funds would be sent onwards to a scammers account. It said that when it did flag the 
payments for additional checks Miss K had told it the payments were genuine. And it didnt 
accept it should have questioned her more rigorously about the purpose of the payments.
Finally, it said it had declined one of the loan applications because she had already taken 
out a loan and paid the money to a cryptocurrency exchange, despite saying this loan was 
for home improvements.
Miss K complained to this service with the help of a representative. They explained that Miss 
K had trusted the broker was genuine and that she had no knowledge of cryptocurrency or 
investments and her checks hadnt uncovered anything negative online about the broker or 
the company he claimed to work for. They argued that if HSBC had contacted Miss K and 
asked more detailed questions about the circumstances of the payments, it would have been 
easy to spot that this was a scam. Similarly, HSBC would have been in a position to advise 
Miss K that taking out a loan wouldnt replace the payment of commission and that celebrity 
endorsements are a red flag for scams, as is sending money via cryptocurrency exchanges 
to online wallets and using Anydesk.
The representative explained that Miss K would spend £1,225 each month on direct debits 
and other scheduled payments. She earns between £1,100 and £1,300 a month and didnt 
normally make large payments. Her monthly expenditure is for day to day needs, which she 
makes in several small transactions for bills, food, and fuel throughout the month. They 
argued that several large transactions totalling £12,442 was out of character and she hadnt 
previously paid cryptocurrency exchanges.
They accepted HSBC had intervened and blocked some payments, but the broker had told 
her to lie when asked whether there was a third party involved, having told her HSBC 
wanted to keep her money as it made interest off of her balance. However, she wasnt given 
a full cover story, so adequate questioning should have been able to uncover the scam.
The representative also argued HSBC failed to question Miss K appropriately and had it 
done so, it would have realised she was falling victim to a scam. They argued HSBC should 
have been aware that scammers often tell victims not to reveal the full story and it should 
have told her this is a common tactic to mislead the bank and it should have done a lot more 
to understand what was happening. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he was satisfied HSBC 
carried out the correct steps prior to releasing the funds, as well as after being notified of the 
scam. He explained Miss K had authorised the transfers which were paid to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange companies in her name. He noted her account was blocked on 27 
June 2022 and HSBC had contacted her to discuss her account and that during the call Miss 
K was dishonest about the circumstances of the payments. He was satisfied HSBC had 
asked the questions hed expect.
Our investigator was also satisfied that a chargeback request wouldnt have been successful 
as the cryptocurrency exchange companies Miss K paid had provided the services they were 
required to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons. Im 
sorry to hear that Miss K has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she feels strongly 
about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied Miss K authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Ms K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Miss K didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
HSBC had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it did enough to warn Miss K that she could be at 
risk of financial harm due to fraud.  
If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect HSBC to intervene 
with a view to protecting Miss K from financial harm due to fraud. The first payment Miss K 
tried to make did flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive listened to the call and I agree 
with our investigator that the call handler did all they could to question Miss K about the 
circumstances of the payment and to advise her about additional checks she should make 
before going ahead with the investment.
Despite repeated clear warnings about the risk of scams, including the fact that scammers 
often tell people to lie to their bank, Miss K maintained that there was no third-party involved 
and that she had learned about the investment through a friend. The call handler gave very 
detailed information about the risk of different types of scams and explained the types of 
checks she should do before going ahead and why.
Having listened to the call, Im satisfied that Miss K was given effective warnings and advice 
on how to protect herself from the risk of fraud and that, notwithstanding this advice, she 
decided to go ahead with the investment. Because of this, Im satisfied there was nothing 
more HSBC could reasonably have done to protect her, and, in those circumstances, it 
doesnt need to do anything else. 
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Miss Ks payments when 
she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss K).
Miss Ks own testimony supports that she used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been able 
to evidence that it had done what was asked. That is, in exchange for Miss Ks payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision not to raise a 
chargeback request was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss K has lost 
money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman