DRN-1567548
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society reduced her credit limit without giving her 
any warning. She thought it was unfair that Nationwide had done this without any discussion 
with her.
What happened
Mrs M paid a sizeable amount of money into her credit card account to reduce her debt. 
Nationwide then reduced her credit limit. Mrs M said she needed this money to carry out 
essential car repairs. Mrs M told us she has medical problems that mean shes unable to 
walk far, and without her car she would lose mobility.
Nationwide said it had reduced Mrs Ms credit limit because of some information it had 
received from a credit reference agency. It named the agency, so that Mrs M could check 
her credit file with them if she wanted to. It explained the terms of her account mean that it 
will use information from credit reference agencies as part of managing her account. And it 
said it didnt have to give her notice that it was reducing her credit limit.
Mrs M said shed had some issues with a different credit card provider, but she still didnt 
feel Nationwide shouldve reduced her credit limit with no notice.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Nationwide was 
entitled to reduce Mrs Ms credit limit without notice. Shed seen the information that 
Nationwide acted on, and she thought it had acted fairly. She didnt think Nationwide 
wouldve known that reducing her credit limit in this way would cause Mrs M to struggle 
financially. She didnt think Nationwide needed to do more to resolve this complaint.
Mrs M said shed accepted Nationwide had the right to reduce her credit limit. But if 
Nationwide had spoken to her about this change, she wouldve explained that she needed 
some of the money shed paid in, for car repairs. She thought Nationwide shouldve done 
that, and this change was unfair because it hadnt done so.
Our investigator said Mrs M thought Nationwide shouldve contacted her if it was thinking of 
reducing her credit limit. Then she wouldnt have paid so much money in. But our 
investigator thought Nationwide hadnt made the decision to reduce Mrs Ms credit limit until 
after shed paid this money in. She said that it may not have been reasonable for Mrs M to 
expect Nationwide to keep her existing credit limit, even if she did need it for car repairs, 
because Nationwide had made a new assessment of the lending risk in this case.
Mrs M said she had held this card for a long time. She very much regretted paying the 
money towards this card rather than one of her other cards. She wanted her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. So this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M paid off a substantial amount of her credit card debt, and Nationwide reduced her 
credit limit. Theres no dispute that Nationwide is entitled to do that under the terms of Mrs 
Ms account, or that it doesnt have to give her notice to do so. But Mrs M thinks Nationwide 
shouldve discussed this with her first, because of how long shes held this card, and 
because she couldve explained what she wanted to use her existing credit limit for.
I understand why Mrs M, as a longstanding customer, thinks that Nationwide shouldve 
behaved differently in this case. But Im looking at whether it was fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to reduce Mrs Ms credit limit in this way. I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide 
to do this, simply because shes had the card for a long time.
Mrs M told us she has had an issue with another card provider. Because of that, information 
on her credit file has been updated. After it got this new information, Nationwide took the 
decision to reduce its lending to her. I dont think that in itself was unfair.
Mrs M says if shed had notice of the proposed change, she couldve told Nationwide what 
she wanted to spend money on. But, as our investigator suggested, its likely Nationwide 
only took this decision once Mrs M had paid the money off her card. And it took this decision 
because of updated information on Mrs Ms credit file. So I think its unlikely that Nationwide 
wouldve changed its mind about this, even if it had been aware that Mrs M wanted to spend 
some of this money on car repairs.
Mrs M says she very much regrets paying off this card, rather than one of her other cards. 
But its quite possible that another credit card provider wouldve done the same, if she paid a 
large sum towards an existing balance, at around the same time as updated information 
suggested that the lending risk for her might have increased.
I know that Mrs M will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman