DRN-3230638
The complaint
Mr B complains that Black Horse Limited imposed unfair charges for the late return of a 
leased car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Mr Bs finance agreement came to an end on 30 June 2020. I can see that Black Horse 
wrote to Mr B on 15 June setting out the options available to him. On 26 June he called the 
business and said he wished to return the car. Black Horse wrote to him on 1 July explaining 
the termination process.
The matter was passed to the banks collections agents who say they made several 
attempts to contact Mr B and the matter was referred back to Black Horse which issued 
another letter on 19 November. Mr B says that he received no contact from the collection 
agent. It was only when he received the 19 November letter that he was aware of the issue. 
He says he spoke to the agent on 10 December. The agent has confirmed the dates on 
which it attempted to call Mr B.
Black Horse says Mrs B called the collection agents on 14 December, but she didnt have 
authority and collection took place on 30 April 2021. The agent says that this followed a call 
from Mr B on 26 April. This meant the car was returned some 10 months late. 
The agreement states that: If you do not buy the Goods, you must return them at the end of 
this Agreement. I appreciate that Black Horse operated a system whereby its agent would 
collect the car, but ultimately the responsibility was on Mr B to ensure that happened. I note 
that Mr B says he acted on every letter from the bank, but he should have been aware that 
the agreement had ended and he had to return the car. 
Even if there had been no contact I would have expected him to seek to return the car. I 
dont think it reasonable to have relied solely on contact from the bank when it was clear he 
held an asset which wasnt his and was due to be returned. Even after the letter of 19 
November I cannot detect an urgency on Mr Bs part to take action. 
It is regrettable that call recordings are no longer available but given the passage of time that 
is not unusual. As such I can only consider the evidence available to me and I regret that I 
am unable to uphold this complaint.
Mr B held the banks asset and they were deprived of the opportunity of selling it while he 
retained it. While he held the car it seems only reasonable that he pay for its use. I note he 
incurred repair costs while he retained it and that is unfortunate, but I cannot say that those 
costs are the responsibility of the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman