DRN-3389251
The complaint
Ms S says esure Insurance Limited undervalued her car when she made a motor insurance 
claim. She also complains about prejudicial remarks made to her and esures poor service.  
What happened
Ms Ss car was written-off in a non-fault accident. esure initially offered her £2,966 for it. 
After Ms S disagreed with the valuation, esure increased it to £3,599  but at that point it 
said there was pre-existing damage on the car, so it deducted £350. Ms S complained to 
esure about the valuation. She supplied two reports from garages that said there was no 
pre-existing damage. She said esures communication was poor, and that an employee of its 
repairer had made remarks relating to her disability and her gender that greatly upset her.
  
esure said its valuation and the deduction it had made were correct. It apologised for how 
she felt about the comments and said it had asked the repairer to investigate. It said it 
thought any shortfalls in its communication were dealt with by an extension it made to Ms Ss 
car hire. esure acknowledged that Ms S didnt think its complaints process was transparent, 
although it disagreed. It said the process was set out in the policy booklet. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ss complaint. She thought esures valuation was fair, 
but she didnt think it had shown it was reasonable to make a deduction for pre-existing 
damage. She thought its images of the damage were poor and noted that Ms Ss images 
showed no damage other than that caused by the accident. The investigator noted that 
esure and the repairer accepted that the remarks reported by Ms S were made but said they 
werent meant to upset her. In the investigators view, the remarks were inappropriate. And 
she thought there was poor service from esure, as Ms S had to chase it for updates.
 
esure didnt agree that it should pay Ms S the sum deducted or pay her £200 for distress and 
inconvenience, as the investigator proposed. It said it would have expected Ms S to raise the 
repairers comments with it much sooner than she did if she was so upset by them. It sent us 
further images of the damage. Ms S said the marks showing on the car looked like patches 
of dirt and reflections. She provided video evidence taken when esure first mentioned pre-
existing damage that she thought showed there wasnt any. She said shed asked esure to 
view the car, rather than rely on third party images, but it hadnt done so.
As there was no agreement, esure asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The valuation
It isnt clear why the first offer Ms S was given was below the cars market value, and I 
understand why she wasnt happy with it. But esures engineer reviewed it, relying on the 
valuations in the national trade guides, to arrive at the cars market value of £3,599. So Im 
satisfied that Ms S was offered the appropriate sum for the car after rejecting the first offer.
 
Pre-existing damage
The garage provided an estimate to esure setting out details of where it thought the pre-
existing damage was, plus the cost of putting each part right. I can see why esure thought a 
thorough assessment had been done. The total cost of repairing the extra damage was 
estimated at over £1,200. But I dont think a repair estimate alone is enough to show theres 
pre-existing damage to a car. So Ive looked very carefully at all the images provided. 
In my opinion, the ones provided by Ms S are clear, and they dont show any pre-existing 
damage to the car. I dont think the images provided by esure are as clear. There are 
reflections on the car  one of which I think could easily be interpreted as damage to the 
doors on the drivers side. The investigator asked for close-up shots and commented that we 
often expect to see measurements of damage too. esure wasnt able to provide these. And it 
didnt provide images with the damage circled, as requested. 
 
Ms S provided the brief comments made by two garages she asked to review the car. They 
didnt find any pre-existing damage. esure doesnt think their views are of any value, as the 
reviewers qualifications arent known. But in my opinion, they were from garages and theyre 
one part of the overall evidence. Ms Ss videos (which provide close-up views of the doors in 
particular) dont show any damage to them. Ms S offered to send the videos to esure on 19 
October 2021, but it seems her offer wasnt taken up. And her request for esure to view the 
car (or to get an independent person to do so) wasnt acted on.
Taking everything into account, I dont think esure has been able to show that it acted fairly 
and reasonably in making a deduction for pre-existing damage. I think it could have done 
more to clarify the issue given that Ms S said very early on that she was shocked by the 
claim of pre-existing damage and had video evidence to show there was none.
 
Poor service
It looks as though esure didnt provide us with a complete set of its file notes, as there seem 
to be gaps. But from the ones we have I think its clear that Ms S had to chase esure for 
updates, especially about the car hire - and also about the promised contact from a senior 
engineer about the valuation. These issues were particularly important to Ms S, as someone 
with mobility issues. Without a hire car or her own car back (or a total loss payment) Ms S 
was unable to get out and about independently. So I think any delays and a lack of updates 
are likely to have impacted more on her than on an average consumer.
It looks as though Ms S didnt realise where she was at times in the complaints cycle. I think 
thats partly because she got an email on 5 October 2021 saying that shed reached the end 
of the complaints process and could complain to us. Ms S then got another final response 
letter on 21 October 2021, which addressed all her issues. So I can see why she was 
confused, despite the complaints process being set out in the policy booklet.
Prejudicial remarks
esure says Ms S told the repairer she was disabled. She agrees that she mentioned it, 
purely to make it clear that she needed the car back quickly, due to her mobility issues. 
esure says the repairer was trying to help Ms S by advising her that she should get a car on 
the governments Motability scheme. But she was offended by the fact that he gave 
unsolicited advice to her as a disabled person  and she was shocked and upset that he 
assumed she was on benefits. Ms S says he also referred to women he knew who were 
emotionally attached to their cars, yet were grateful in the end to have them written-off. esure says we only have Ms Ss account of what was said. But I dont think theres any 
reason to doubt it - and the repairer hasnt said its not accurate. 
Ive considered the provisions of the Equality Act 2010, as its the relevant law here, but 
ultimately, Ive reached my conclusions based on whats fair and reasonable. If Ms S wants 
a formal decision on whether the law has been breached, she would need to go to court so a 
judge could consider the matter. 
I think its clear why Ms S was so offended by the comments made by the repairers 
employee. However helpful he may have meant to be, in my opinion what he said relating to 
Ms Ss gender and disability was inappropriate and unwelcome. Ms S has explained just 
how distressed she was at the time and afterwards. esure says if thats accurate, it would 
have expected her to complain earlier than she did. I think some consumers would have 
done, but people react differently in upsetting situations. In my opinion, the delay in reporting 
the incident is irrelevant to the level of distress felt by Ms S. I appreciate that esure 
apologised for how she felt, but I dont think that alone is sufficient.
In summary
 
In order to resolve Ms Ss complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for esure to pay 
her the £350 it deducted from her total loss settlement (plus interest). I also think esures 
service could have been better in terms of its communication with Ms S, and that she faced 
a fair amount of distress due to the repairers remarks. So I also think it would be fair and 
reasonable for esure to pay Ms S £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Ms S £200 for distress and inconvenience
Pay Ms S the £350 deducted from her total loss payment 
Add interest to the £350 at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the total loss 
payment was made to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman