DRN-3498478
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Black Horse Limiteds offer of redress for mis-sold PPI was 
insufficient as it did not take account of the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused.
What happened
In response to a complaint about PPI mis-selling on a loan in 1997, Black Horse upheld the 
complaint and offered a full refund of premiums plus associated interest. However, Mr R 
could see from the response letter that nil had been awarded for upset and inconvenience, 
which he thought was wrong in the circumstances.
Following intervention from our adjudicator, Black Horse reviewed the situation and offered 
an additional £50 to Mr R. It then agreed to a further £50 as a separate amount to cover Mrs 
Rs distress and inconvenience, that being £100 in total. Mr R has accepted this offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R says that the addition of PPI to a loan resulted in the creation of a county court 
judgment (CCJ) against him which Black Horse told him nothing about. This resulted in him 
being turned down for other financial products. 
I dont know all the details of why Mr R was served a CCJ and how it came about that Mr R 
seemed to know nothing about it. However, in upholding the mis-sale complaint, Black Horse 
has acknowledged that the PPI was indeed mis-sold. It has also now accepted that this led 
to a series of events that culminated in Mr Rs credit history being tainted and it writing to 
certain credit reference agencies to have this amended.
Given that this information was available to Black Horse at the time it was looking at Mr Rs 
complaint, it should have considered offering compensation for distress and inconvenience 
at that time, which is why the complaint is being upheld.
However, I am glad that Black Horse has now offered an additional amount and I understand 
that Mr R has accepted it on behalf of himself and his wife.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Black Horse Limited to pay the 
additional £100 compensation it has offered for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman