DRN-3495666
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt refunded her the money 
she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Ms R was the victim of a scam when she made a 
Faster Payment transfer for £3,250 in December 2020. 
She did so in the belief that her Halifax account was at risk, and that she was acting to 
protect her money. This belief was based on a telephone call shed received, purportedly 
from Halifax. 
Ms R says this call was not wholly unexpected. Shed called the bank a few days earlier to 
report that, having received an email that appeared to be from the DVLA, shed input her 
details onto what she thought was a DVLA webpage. But she now had concerns that her 
personal details might have been compromised (in whats known as a phishing attack). 
When Ms R had called the bank to report her concerns shed explained what happened, 
before being transferred to the fraud team. However, having been placed on hold for an 
hour, shed been unable to hold on longer and had to end that call. Shed therefore been 
expecting the fraud team might call her back to follow up on this.
Ms R explains that the call she later received happened at an inconvenient time - she was 
just getting ready to leave the house for the evening. But given the importance of protecting 
her funds she continued.
She noted that the callers number matched Halifaxs number. The caller knew Ms Rs 
account number and sort code and it sounded like she was speaking to her bank. Ms R 
explains this was all consistent with the call being genuinely from her bank and she didnt 
doubt this at the time.
Unfortunately, the call was from a fraudster impersonating the bank, who had been able to 
mimic (or spoof) the banks phone number to make it appear that the call originated with 
Halifax.
Ms R was talked through what she needed to do to protect her funds. She was told a new 
account had been set up in her name and was given the new sort code and account number 
to use. 
Ms R set up the new payee details on her mobile banking app. It wasnt possible for Halifax 
to check the name against the receiving bank account  because the recipient bank didnt 
support the confirmation of payee system. So, when Ms R had input her own name as the 
payee name, this didnt result in a warning saying the name didnt match (in other words that 
it wasnt her account)  just that Halifax hadnt been able to check the name.
Halifax says it displayed a scam warning before Ms R completed the payment. However, 
Ms R doesnt recall seeing this.
Money remained in Ms Rs account after this payment had been made. Ms R was told to 
make a further payment (to the same destination) which would have mostly cleared the 
balance. When she attempted to make this, Halifax says it identified this second payment 
attempt might be fraudulent and blocked it from being made.
When Ms R told the caller that the second payment hadnt succeeded, the person shed 
been speaking to ended the call. Ms R began to realise something wasnt right. She called 
Halifax and the scam was identified. Halifax attempted to retrieve the funds, but none 
remained in the recipient account.
 
Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams (such as this) in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Halifax says one or more of those exceptions applies here. It had given Ms R a scam 
warning when she made the payment. And it said Ms R had made the payment without 
having a reasonable basis for believing she was protecting her money. Halifax said it did not 
need to refund Ms R.
One of our Investigators looked into Ms Rs complaint and thought it should be upheld.
The Investigator didnt think Halifax had fairly assessed her claim under the CRM Code. He 
didnt agree that Halifax had been able to establish Ms R made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing what she did, or that shed ignored an effective warning.
Halifax maintained its position. In particular, it disagreed that the warning it had given wasnt 
enough to alert Ms R to this being a scam. It thought shed ignored an effective warning. It 
also thought she could not have had a reasonable basis for believing this was the bank 
calling, given the warning message had been displayed.
It said it couldnt now locate the call recording from when Ms R had first called about the 
phishing attack. But it thought that maybe the staff member shed spoken to initially wasnt 
trained on fraud or scam risks. However, its call notes showed that the staff member had 
suggested contacting Action Fraud before trying to transfer Ms R to the fraud team  and 
wasnt wrong to have done so. It said Ms R should have held on for longer than she did (its 
notes agree with her recollections that she waited on hold for over an hour).
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ive carefully considered Halifaxs representations about the warning it gave 
Ms R and whether she had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. 
But the banks representations do not persuade me to reach a different view. I will explain 
why.
Halifax seeks to rely on two possible exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code:
the customer ignoring an effective warning by not taking the appropriate steps in 
response; and/or,
the customer having made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing they were paying the person they expected to pay.
Firstly, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective 
warning exception have not been established. 
The CRM Code defines the requirements for a scam warning to be considered an Effective 
Warning. Part of the requirement to be sufficiently impactful includes taking steps to ensure 
a customer is made aware of the consequences of proceeding with an irrevocable payment 
(such as this Faster Payment was). But neither Halifaxs warning, nor the earlier message 
regarding Confirmation of Payee stated that the payment would be irrevocable or mentioned 
the consequences of proceeding. 
While I appreciate the bank may believe this meaning was implicit, Im not persuaded the 
warning message met the CRM Codes minimum requirements to be an Effective Warning. 
Further, the nature of this type of scam means that in general an on-screen warning would 
need to have enough impact to stop someone from continuing to follow urgent instructions 
they believe originate with their bank. Otherwise a warning is unlikely to have a reasonable 
prospect of positively affect[ing] Customer decision-making in a manner whereby the 
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced  as required by the CRM Code.
And while I consider that in some circumstances the warning shown here could have an 
impact, I dont think it was sufficiently impactful to be generally effective against this type of 
safe-account scam.
Specifically, the initial text in the warning (and shown in a larger font size in a red colour) 
said how well do you know this person?. Typically, this type of scam operates at pace and 
under pressure. The victim believes they are speaking to someone trusted, someone based 
in the fraud team of their bank. A scammer will typically suggest the need for urgency. The 
potential impact of an in-app warning is thus reduced, and there is a greater chance that the 
victim wont read the message fully. Here the heading doesnt immediately create a link (in 
the moment) to the situation the victim is in. This is especially so given the pressure they are 
typically under.
With the above in mind, I dont consider the warning Halifax gave here fully met the 
requirements for an Effective Warning under the CRM Code. It follows that Halifax cannot 
fairly apply the Effective Warning exception to Ms Rs case  it hasnt demonstrated that 
such a warning was provided to Ms R.
Ive gone on to consider whether Halifax has been able to establish that Ms R made the 
payment without holding a reasonable basis for believing what she did at the time. 
The CRM Code specifies that all the circumstances at the time (to include the sophistication 
of the scam) need to be taken into account. I also consider that any warning or other 
messages provided are relevant circumstances - even where those warnings werent 
Effective Warnings (as I have found here).
Firstly, I consider that the scam here was relatively sophisticated and persuasive. It involved 
an initial phishing attack, likely used as a way to gather personal information that was later 
used in the main scam call. That call used phone number spoofing to mimic the banks real 
phone number. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that in all the circumstances here, 
Ms R had a reasonable basis for believing she was speaking with her bank and following its 
instructions to transfer money to a safe account it had created in her name to protect her 
funds.Whats more, Ms R has described how when she received the scam call on the evening in 
question, she was distracted and somewhat caught off guard. This was a Saturday evening 
a week before Christmas and she was getting ready to go out. But because she was 
expecting she might hear back from her bank she took the call. I consider these 
circumstances are relevant here.
Halifax argues that this may well have been the case, but that when it showed Ms R the 
warning message this would have broken the scammers spell. I agree with Halifax that parts 
of the text of the warning message it showed Ms R were exactly relevant to the scam that 
occurred here.
But in the circumstances here, Ms R was already under the spell of the scammer by the time 
that message was displayed. She explains that she doesnt recall seeing the warning 
message at the time. I dont find that unreasonable given what she has said was happening 
at the time. By the time it was displayed she was attempting to follow the instructions of the 
caller to move her money supposedly to safety without delay. Ms R says she was feeling 
rushed and pressured.
The transaction timings provided to me by Halifax suggest the payment was completed 
quickly and so the warning could only have been displayed for, at most, a brief period of 
time.
Unfortunately, it seems that here the urgent promptings of the caller (whom Ms R believed 
was from Halifaxs fraud team) were more impactful in the moment than Halifaxs fraud 
warning message. I consider this was likely the result of Ms R holding the strong belief by 
this point that she was dealing with her banks fraud team. 
All things taken into account, I dont find Ms R was at fault in those circumstances for 
proceeding past the warning without fully absorbing what it said.
And overall, I am not persuaded that Halifax has established that Ms R made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing she was following the legitimate instructions of her 
bank to secure her money.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should 
reimbursed unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of the exceptions to 
reimbursement can be applied. Im not persuaded that Halifax has been able to establish 
that any of the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code can fairly be applied in 
Ms Rs case. It follows that Halifax should have reimbursed Ms R under the terms of the 
CRM Code.
Furthermore, I am also satisfied that had Halifax adequately alerted Ms R to the potential 
scam risks when shed initially called to report the phishing attack, this would likely have 
made a difference. I think it was reasonable to expect Halifax to have taken such steps at 
the time of that initial call - given its knowledge of common fraud risks. But it has not 
provided evidence to show that it did so, and neither does Ms R recall it making her aware of 
those risks. 
The bank explains that had Ms R stayed on hold for longer, then it could have given her 
better advice. I appreciate Halifax has challenges in having sufficient specialist staff readily 
available and that some delays are inevitable. But I dont think it follows that Ms R is to 
blame for not having waited on hold for over an hour. More importantly, shed already 
reported the phishing incident to her bank  an initial incident that undoubtably meant she 
would be a significantly higher risk of financial harm through fraud or scam in the following 
days.When the extended hold time resulted in the call being ended before Ms R had spoken to 
the fraud team, I consider the onus was on the bank to contact Ms R by some means to 
ensure she didnt subsequently fall victim to financial loss. Even if logistically the bank 
couldnt have called Ms R back within a reasonable period of time, I dont think its 
unreasonable to think it could have attempted to contact her through another communication 
channel. At the very least, the bank should have been more alert to any riskier transactions 
in the immediate follow up to the reported phishing attack  meaning it most likely would 
have intervened at the point of the first payment rather than the second payment.
In saying that I consider Halifax liable because it ought reasonably to have thus prevented 
this scam, I have considered whether Ms R should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising 
the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was 
doing or the consequences of her actions. She thought she was helping to stop financial 
crime, not facilitate it. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, 
she was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Ms R was a layperson.
In the circumstances, Halifax should fairly and reasonably refund the money Ms R lost. The 
money was sent from Ms Rs current account. It is not clear how Ms R would have used the 
money if Halifax had refunded it when it should have done. But if Halifax had prevented the 
scam (or refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done) Ms R would not have 
been deprived of it for the time she has. So, Halifax should also pay interest on the loss at a 
rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should be calculated from the date of the payment 
until the date of settlement.
Although most of Ms Rs distress or inconvenience resulted from the criminal acts of the 
fraudsters, I find that Halifax should fairly share some of the blame for the impact of what 
happened to her. I say this given my finding that Halifax should have taken additional steps 
following Ms Rs call to report the initial phishing attack - and in failing to do so, contributed 
to the scams success. In all of the circumstances of this complaint I think it is reasonable for 
Halifax to pay Ms R the sum of £350 in respect of the material distress and inconvenience 
she suffered as a result.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Ms R ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded under the CRM and further, that Halifax could have prevented the loss from taking 
place. I therefore direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Ms R:
the full amount of the money she lost as a result of the scam, being £3,250 less any 
sums the bank has already been able to return to Ms R. The bank should do so 
within 28 days of receiving notification of Ms Rs acceptance of my final decision; 
plus,
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) calculated from the date Ms R made the relevant payment until the date 
of settlement; and,
£350 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also to be paid within 28 days of 
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.My final decision
I uphold Ms Rs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman