DRN-1649748
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have rejected a claim he made to them 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
misrepresentation
Whilst I understand that Mr R has provided information that demonstrates conversations 
were had about the room he may be able to stay in, I dont think it would be fair to suggest 
any promises were made. In particular I note the booking invoice says that there is no 
guarantee a specific room will be allocated.
So, I am not persuaded that there has been a misrepresentation here.
breach of contract
Its an implied condition of Mr Rs contract that the quality of the room is satisfactory.
I dont think a reasonable person would consider the upgraded room Mr R was given to be 
satisfactory when considering its price. Whilst I understand that there may be some minor 
cosmetic issues with accommodation I dont think all of the issues Mr R has provided 
evidence of could be considered minor cosmetic issues.
For instance, I think the lack of a terrace door handle is a significant issue. It prevented the 
door from being locked and that meant that Mr R could not keep his possessions secure. I 
think a reasonable person would expect to be able to keep possessions securely no matter 
what standard of accommodation was provided.
There is also significant damage to the bath. A large section of enamel is missing, and Mr R 
has explained he had no other option than to use the bath as the shower was over it. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect washing facilities to be in that condition. 
So, Im persuaded that the accommodation Mr R was provided with was of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
 
Putting things right
I think Mr R should be refunded for the cost of the accommodation he paid for but could not 
use. However, its fair that the accommodation he did use is paid for. 
Mr R spent 13 nights in alternative accommodation when I think he made a reasonable 
decision to leave the unsatisfactory accommodation he had been provided.
He should therefore be refunded for those 13 nights. He paid 4,000 Euros for the 
accommodation which is equivalent to 142.86 Euros per night. That equates to 1857.14 
Euros or £1643.52 (at the original exchange rate 1.13 Euros to the Pound).
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander UK Plc to refund 
Mr Rs unused accommodation cost of £1643.52.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman