DRN-3042323
The complaint
Mr W complains about difficulties accessing his National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that NS&I let Mr W down here. In brief, it locked him out of his account, 
seemingly in error. When he called NS&I (28 January 2021) his security was reset, but in 
error his password was reordered and sent via post, locking him out again and despite 
repeated attempts he couldnt pass security. He then waited while the password arrived in 
the post. He wasnt in the UK so a relative needed to visit his home to collect it. He then 
needed to call NS&I again with the new password (3 February 2021).
Fortunately, Mr Ws difficulties accessing his account didnt cause him a financial loss. But 
understandably, this matter has caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience, 
including spending several hours on the phone to NS&I. NS&I accepted it made mistakes, 
apologised and paid Mr W £50 compensation. Mr W doesnt think this is enough given the 
seriousness of the situation. I appreciate his strength of feeling. But Im satisfied the apology 
and £50 compensation fairly reflects the impact this matter had on Mr W.
Mr W has some concerns about NS&I in general. He feels, in summary, its website is 
misleading, its security processes are designed to fail, its staff lack training and technical 
faults are common through a lack of technology. Again, I appreciate his strength of feeling. 
But Im afraid I cant help him with these concerns as its not within my powers to require 
NS&I to implement the sorts of changes he appears to want made. Its also for this reason I 
cant reasonably require NS&I to reimburse Mr W for his credit reference agency 
subscription fees, as NS&I is entitled to use security procedures based on third-party data. 
Overall, I agree with Mr Ws complaint. But for the reasons set out above, I dont require 
NS&I to take any further action.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint but as National Savings and Investments has already offered a fair 
resolution, I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman