DRN-2477103
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc refused to uphold his chargeback request. 
What happened
Mr B made a number of deposits into an online trading account using his Capital One credit 
card. Mr B became dissatisfied with the service being provided by the company and on 18 
March 2020 he emailed the company to ask for a refund of his transactions. The following 
day the company emailed Mr B a refund receipt that said 1,250 euros had been refunded.
Mr B says he didnt receive the refund so he contacted Capital One to ask it to refund him 
the deposit of £1,604.63 hed paid to this company using either the chargeback scheme or a 
s75 claim on the basis that the company had promised the refund but then failed to pay it.
Capital One said s75 didnt apply as trading in binary options, which was what Mr B had 
been doing, is treated in the same way as a gambling transaction. Under the terms and 
conditions of his credit card, payments for gambling were also treated as cash withdrawals 
and, because of this, there was no debtor- supplier relationship which was necessary for a 
claim under s75.Consumer Credit Act 1974.  While Mr B had said hed been asking for the 
refund o his deposit, it seemed what he as actually asking for was a withdrawal and this 
wasnt covered. It noted that even if the initial deposits came within s75, these would only be 
covered to the extent that theyd been successfully paid into the account and not to any 
subsequent trades. Mr B had agreed that the initial deposits had been successfully credited 
to his trading account and that his problems related to the way the account had actually 
been dealt with after that. This this wasnt covered by the legislation.
Capital One said it had considered whether a chargeback would apply but as the request 
had been for a withdrawal, not a refund, and the amount refunded hadnt related to any 
specific transaction, it didnt agree that it did.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator however 
didnt think Capital One had done anything wrong. He said it wasnt for us to decide if the 
claim would have been successful but to look at whether Capital One handled Mr Bs claim 
correctly. Hed reviewed the chargeback rules, and the terms and conditions for Mr Bs credit 
card account and felt Capital Ones decision was in line with these. For that reason, he 
couldnt say Capital One had made a mistake so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything 
more.
Mr B disagreed and said that the issue was the companys failure to make the refund as 
stated and not the underlying nature of the transactions on the account. While he accepted 
s75 didnt apply, the failure to make an agreed refund was specifically covered in the 
chargeback rules so he felt Capital One hadnt applied them correctly and that his claim 
should have been allowed. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr B feels about this matter and why he feels so disappointed by 
Capital Ones decision. However, having reviewed the evidence, I dont think Capital One 
has done anything wrong as I dont consider this transaction was covered by either the s75 
or chargeback processes, as Ill now explain.
Ive read and considered the whole file but Ill focus my comments on what I think is relevant.  
If I dont comment on any particular point, its not because I havent taken it into account but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it to explain the decision.
Where theres no information on any point, or the information is unclear or contradictory, Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words what more likely than not to 
have happened taking into account the circumstances of the case.
When a consumer uses their credit card to pay for goods or services and something goes 
wrong, then it may be possible for the consumer to claim back the cost of that transaction 
from the credit card provider, either under s75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) or using a 
chargeback.
Ive seen Mr B accepts Capital Ones explanation as to why it wasnt possible to make a 
claim under s75 so I wont comment on that further other than to say that I consider Capital 
Ones explanation to be reasonable and in line with both the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
credit card account and the Act.
Turning next to the chargeback, I should explain that the chargeback scheme is a voluntary 
scheme thats intended to offer protection to consumers for a specific service or purchase 
that hasnt happened or which has fallen short of what was agreed. However, a chargeback 
doesnt apply in every case as the transaction needs to come within the rules of the scheme. 
The rules are set by the card issuers, which in this case was Mastercard, but Capital One is 
required to comply with them.
Id also add that in considering this complaint, Im not looking at the merits of the chargeback 
claim but at whether Capital One has followed the rules correctly and reasonably.
Ive seen that in his claim form to Capital One Mr B was claiming a refund of a deposit of 
£1,604.63 on the basis that the merchant had agreed a refund and then sent him a receipt 
saying it had refunded him £1,250 euros but nothing had been received. 
Mastercard is very clear that trading in binary options is not covered by the chargeback 
scheme and that includes any disputes regarding withdrawals. All that is covered is the initial 
deposit into the trading account but, as Mr B has confirmed, the deposits were processed 
successfully so it wouldnt be possible to ask for a chargeback on that basis.
I understand Mr Bs view that the claim relates to the failure to pay the refund and not the 
underlying transactions on the account.  Ive looked at this very carefully but I cant agree. 
The scheme rules are clear that some transactions are excluded and if the underlying 
transaction is excluded then it seems reasonable that the refund process would also be 
excluded.
Ive seen Mr B had made a number of payments into his online trading account. Hed then 
made a number of trading transactions through that account. By the time he contacted the 
company in March 2020 to ask for a refund of his transactions, it wasnt possible to say if 
the money in his account was the money originally deposited or if it had come from other 
activities on the account.In his email of 18 March Mr B said he understood there should be about 49,500 euros in the 
account at that time and he wanted a return of all of this. This was significantly more than 
hed deposited into the account and for that reason, I consider it more likely, on balance, that 
this was the results of his trading. Thats supported by the fact Mr B asked for a refund of all 
his transactions, not just the deposit. In other words, I consider Mr B was asking for a 
withdrawal of the funds on his account and not a refund of a specific transaction.  
As trading in binary options are specifically excluded from the chargeback process by 
Mastercard - and that includes any disputes over withdrawals - I cant agree that Capital One 
was wrong to say that this transaction wasnt covered under the scheme.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr B is hoping for but I hope that Ive explained why this 
transaction wasnt covered by the chargeback process. For that reason, I cant agree Capital 
One has done anything wrong and I wont, therefore, be asking it to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman