DRN-4209942
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont help her regarding foreign currency bankers 
drafts that she tried to deposit with them.
Mrs B is represented by a solicitor in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs B herself.
What happened
Mrs B says she visited a HSBC branch on 18 June 2021 and deposited five bankers drafts 
into her account, which were in a foreign currency. She says she received confirmation from 
HSBC that two of the bankers drafts had been credited to her account, but she is still waiting 
for the remaining three bankers drafts to be credited to her account. Mrs B made a 
complaint to HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld Mrs Bs complaint. They said there is not an international cheque 
clearing system, so these cheques, payable to recipients in the UK, are sent to the bank 
where the payer holds their account. This process is known as collection and can take 
several weeks. They said they must collect the proceeds of the cheques before applying 
them to her account. HSBC said the process can take up to eight weeks. They apologised 
that she was not advised of the timescale when she initially deposited the cheques in the 
branch.
HSBC said that for Mrs Bs remaining three cheques, their cheques team followed their 
collections process correctly. They attempted to contact the overseas bank and sent multiple 
chaser emails. HSBC said that as they didnt receive a response, they didnt pay these 
cheques and they advised her to speak with the issuing bank regarding these, so they can 
be written out to her again. HSBC said they credited £100 to her account for the 
inconvenience. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He said HSBC have provided evidence 
that they have followed the collection process correctly. He said a part of this process 
requires that the bankers draft from the cashing bank (HSBC), is sent to the paying banks. 
The cheque is then negotiated between the two banks and, once paid from the paying bank 
and showing in the cashing banks systems, the funds are released. He said HSBC have 
provided evidence that they have attempted to chase up the issue with the overseas bank 
once the bankers drafts were sent but they have not received any response from the 
overseas bank. As the bankers drafts were sent to the overseas bank, HSBC cant send 
these back to Mrs B.
Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said it appeared that HSBC 
were unable to provide any evidence that the first step in the collection process had been 
completed (sending the drafts to the paying bank). She said that she had been told by a 
member of HSBC staff that the bankers drafts had been destroyed, which would be 
inconsistent with HSBCs current position that the bankers drafts were sent to the paying 
bank, and nothing further was heard.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at HSBCs personal banking terms and conditions to see what they say about 
HSBC processing foreign currency bankers drafts/cheques. While bankers drafts and 
cheques are two different things (as a bankers draft is prepaid and issued by a bank), Im 
satisfied that the section on page 15 of the terms titled foreign currency cheques, would be 
applicable in the way the bankers draft would be processed. This explains the differences 
between negotiating, which is where HSBC would pay the cheque into her account on the 
working day after they receive the cheque and it is based on trust, assuming the cheque will 
clear. Or collection, which is defined in the terms and conditions by This means well send 
the cheque to the paying bank and only pay the money into your account when we receive it. 
How long this takes depends on the paying bank or its country (you can ask us for details). 
We may use an agent to collect the payment.
Here, the process used was collection. So as the above statement shows, HSBC would 
send the cheque  or in this case the bankers drafts to the paying banks and they would 
only pay the money into her account when they receive the funds from the paying bank. 
HSBC have said they would send the bankers drafts to their processing centre as it wouldnt 
be the branch staff who would send these off to the paying bank. There were five foreign 
currency bankers drafts Mrs B attempted to deposit into her account, across three different 
banks. Two of the bankers drafts credited her account. From the letters that HSBC sent to 
Mrs B on 13 July 2021 and 3 August 2021 it appears that these were also by collection. As 
the funds have credited her account, then Im satisfied that HSBC followed their process 
successfully. So I will focus on the three foreign currency bankers drafts which didnt credit 
her account. These were all issued from the same overseas bank.
In order to ensure that HSBC followed their process, Ive asked them for a number of 
additional items of evidence. HSBC have provided to me the reference number which these 
three cheques were worked under, which is the same reference for all three bankers drafts. 
They have also provided me the case reference, which is three different numbers. HSBC 
have provided me a screenshot of a spreadsheet which shows the name of the bank, the 
address of the bank and shows 3 under the column foreign out (presumably three foreign 
currency bankers drafts sent out to the bank to that address).
I asked HSBC if they had any proof of delivery for the bankers drafts to the paying bank. 
HSBC have reached out to their delivery partner and they have provided me evidence of the 
proof of delivery/statement of final status. This document shows the one reference number 
which matches up to the reference that the three cheques were worked under. I can see the 
bankers drafts were picked up by the delivery partner on 28 June 2021 at 17:06pm and they 
show a status of delivered - on 1 July 2021 at 11:02. The document shows that this was 
signed for by the person who accepted the delivery. The document also shows an address 
where the bankers drafts were delivered to. 
I have noted that the address the bankers drafts were delivered to is different from the city 
which is shown on the bankers drafts. So Ive also investigated whether the bankers drafts 
were delivered to the correct location. When processing international payments, most banks 
will have a processing centre. To locate the correct details, there is what is known as a 
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT) register. The paying 
bank here has a SWIFT code assigned to them and they would be responsible for ensuring 
their details are correct, as other banks such as HSBC would use these details to 
communicate with them if necessary. I have researched the SWIFT code that HSBC said they used to locate the address for the paying bank, and Im satisfied they used the correct 
SWIFT code. 
I say this as the SWIFT code HSBC used matches up to the paying bank. The SWIFT code 
also helps HSBC locate the address of the paying bank. I have looked online with the details 
of this SWIFT code that HSBC used and it displays an address for the paying bank which 
directly matches the address on the delivery partners tracking document which shows the 
delivery status as delivered. 
So I am satisfied that HSBC followed their process. The branch sent the bankers drafts to 
their processing centre. They worked through the foreign currency bankers drafts assigning 
the three bankers drafts a collective reference number and also three individual case 
reference numbers and they sent the bankers drafts to the address which the paying bank 
displayed via their SWIFT code. 
Ive also been provided evidence that HSBC have tried to contact the paying bank on a 
number of occasions. But theyve done this threefold. I say this as they have contacted the 
paying bank using the three individual reference numbers that they assigned the bankers 
drafts. The first time they contacted the paying bank was before the bankers drafts were 
even collected by their delivery partner. On 25 June 2021, they sent three individual 
messages to the paying bank with details of each individual bankers draft, the cheque 
number and the amount of the bankers draft. It also gave the paying bank ways of how to 
transfer HSBC the funds from the bankers draft. They chased this up on 14 July 2021 as 
they told the paying bank that they hadnt received any acknowledgement or proceeds (the 
funds) from them. They asked the paying bank to advise of the outcome and asked them for 
a prompt reply. They chased this again on 3 August 2021. So Im satisfied that HSBC tried to 
chase the funds on Mrs Bs behalf, but they did not receive any response from the paying 
bank.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about her being told that the bankers drafts were 
destroyed. During my investigations I have listened to a call which Mrs B had with HSBC on 
24 September 2021. On this call Mrs B explains that she needs the three cheques back. 
But there does seem to be a misunderstanding here which leads to the call handler telling 
Mrs B about the cheque process  and not a foreign currency bankers draft process. And 
this is why the call handler tells Mrs B that the cheques would be destroyed after a certain 
timeframe. 
Mrs B is adamant that a HSBC branch employee also told her the bankers drafts would 
have been destroyed, which would be inconsistent with HSBCs evidence that they had sent 
the bankers drafts. Unfortunately there is no way of me knowing about what was said in the 
branch. HSBC have confirmed to me that their Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) does not 
contain audio, so Id be unable to listen to any conversations Mrs B had with the staff 
member. And due to the time thats passed, HSBC would be unlikely to have retained this 
footage. 
I asked HSBC if they could reach out to the employee to see if he had a recollection of what 
happened here. The employee said that any cheques that were deposited in a HSBC branch 
would be scanned off that day (unless deposited after 3:30pm), and they hold them for a 
month and a day and then after that they are destroyed. So if Mrs B was asking about 
cheques and not bankers drafts, like she did on the call on 24 September 2021, then this 
may be the reason why she would be told that cheques would be destroyed after a set 
timeframe. This is because how these are issued and paid would be different to a bankers 
draft. But ultimately Im unable to say with any certainty what Mrs B was told here. I can only 
reassure her that the evidence shows that the bankers drafts were sent to the processing 
centre by the branch staff and HSBCs delivery partner successfully delivered these to the paying bank and that they werent destroyed.
HSBC credited Mrs Bs account with £100 as they did not explain the process of the foreign 
currency bankers draft to Mrs B clearly. Im satisfied that this is proportionate. I say this as if 
they had clearly explained their process to Mrs B then she would have been aware of what 
to expect and the timescales involved. She wouldve known then that they wouldnt have 
destroyed the bankers drafts as these were sent to the paying bank, so it would have saved 
her phone calls to HSBC requesting these back and it could have potentially saved her 
visiting the branch. So £100 is in line with our guidance for this type of inconvenience. 
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the position that Mrs B finds herself in. But ultimately 
Mrs B will need to reach out to the paying bank to try and progress this issue. I will ask our 
investigator to provide her with a redacted (if necessary) copy of the proof of delivery which 
may help her progress this issue. But Im satisfied for the reasons Ive given that HSBC have 
followed their process here and they arent at fault for the funds not being credited to her 
account. So it follows I dont intend to ask HSBC to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC accepted the provisional decision. Mrs B did not respond to the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman