DRN-3339559
The complaint
Miss P complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
L2G lent Miss P two loans in 2019, both loans were for a term of 18 months, the loan 
amount for loan 1 was £750 and the loan amount for loan 2 was £400. Miss P was due to 
make monthly repayments of £171.42 and £91.42 respectively. Over the course of the loan 
terms, according to the loan agreements, Miss P was due to repay more than three times of 
each loan amount. Both loans have now been fully repaid.
Miss P complained to L2G through a third-party representative but it didnt uphold her 
complaint and so she referred it to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator thought that the results of L2Gs checks were concerning and 
so it was wrong to lend. L2G disagreed.
Following the investigators view, we wrote to the third-party representative for Miss P in 
September 2021 asking for further information about her circumstances at the time of the 
loan, specifically her bank statements. This information wasnt provided. We requested the 
information again in February 2022, we explained that without this information, a decision 
would be reached based on the current information and the outcome of the complaint was 
likely to change.
The information hasnt been provided and deadline for providing the information has now 
passed. Im satisfied that Miss P has been given sufficient time to provide a response. I 
havent issued a provisional decision as Ive given an indication to Miss P through her 
representatives that I was inclined reach different conclusions from the investigator. Miss Ps 
representative has been given the necessary time to provide further evidence and 
representation on her behalf as it would have with a provisional decision but it hasnt 
provided this information, so I have made my final decision based on the available 
information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.  
In the earlier stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may be proportionate. 
When looking at the checks L2G carried out, Im mindful that on both loans, Miss P was due 
to repay more than three times what she was borrowing. There were also concerns about 
recent payment difficulties as Miss P was in arrears and arrangement to pay on some of her 
credit commitments. These concerns were present for both loans.
In the circumstances, Id have expected L2G to take its checks for both loans further to 
understand Miss Ps circumstances better, so I dont think it took its checks far enough.
Usually, Id look to see what Miss Ps circumstances were at the time of the loan but as 
stated above this service has requested copies of Miss Ps bank statements, but he hasnt 
provided this. So, in the absence of this information, I dont know what L2G would have 
found had it taken its checks further and I cant say it was wrong the lend based on the 
information I currently have.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman