DRN-3413082
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S are in partnership and they complain that without telling them, HSBC UK 
Bank Plc appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers to pursue them for debts they 
owed to the bank. They are also unhappy that the LPA Receivers put one of their properties 
up for auction without their knowledge.
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
In 2006 Mr and Mrs S completed two commercial loans with HSBC. The first loan for 
£368,000, was structured over a 20-year term and secured by a charge over Mr and Mrs Ss 
business premises. I refer to this as Property A. The second loan was for £212,000. It was 
structured over a shorter term of 15 years and secured by a charge on a plot of land also 
belonging to Mr and Mrs S. I refer to this as Property B. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs S defaulted on their loan repayments and the bank wrote various 
letters to them to express their concerns. In particular on 19 June 2019. The bank told Mr 
and Mrs S that they needed to provide acceptable repayment proposals by 17 July 2019, 
failing which it would issue a formal demand for full repayment of all their debts. HSBC also 
explained that if repayment of all their debts was not received following the demand, then an 
LPA receiver would be appointed with the power to sell the properties they hold as security 
in order to recover the debt.
A further letter was issued by the bank, on 29 July 2019 when HSBC demanded full 
repayment of the outstanding debt. And once again the bank warned that if it didnt receive 
full repayment or acceptable repayment proposals it would appoint an LPA receiver to sell 
Properties A and B.  
On 13 August 2019 HSBC issued formal demand letters to Mr and Mrs S separately. Shortly 
afterwards, on 23 August 2019 the bank appointed LPA receivers to recover the debt. I refer 
to the LPA receivers as G.
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC. They said they only became aware of 
Gs appointment in August 2019 when Mrs S received a phone call from them, followed 
shortly afterwards by an unannounced visit to Property A. They also complained that they 
didnt know G had put Property B up for auction until they began receiving telephone 
enquiries about the sale. Property B was later withdrawn from the auction.
HSBC didnt think theyd done anything wrong in their handling of this matter. They said Mr 
and Mrs S failed to respond to their request by letter dated 11 February 2019 to discuss their 
concerns. And they said despite sending the other letters in June and July 2019 referred to 
above, they received no feasible proposals from Mr and Mrs S to repay their debt which 
ultimately led to the banks appointment of G in August 2019. 
Initially, one of our investigators tried to facilitate discussions between Mr and Mrs S and the 
bank in the hope that a repayment arrangement could be agreed between them. But this 
was unsuccessful, so another investigator considered the substance of their complaint. But 
he wasnt persuaded the complaint should be upheld. Having regard to the various letters 
which the investigator observed the bank had written to Mr and Mrs S, he was unable to 
conclude the bank failed to notify them about Gs appointment. He wasnt persuaded 
therefore that HSBC had treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In their response they 
maintained they did not receive crucial letters HSBC purportedly sent to them. They 
acknowledge receiving HSBCs letter of demand dated 13 August 2019. But they deny 
receiving the other correspondence including the 11 February, 19 June and 29 July letters 
that the bank purportedly sent to them before Gs appointment. They believe HSBC should 
provide not just copies of the letters the bank allegedly sent to them but proof of postage too 
to ensure confidence the bank is telling the truth. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same reasons. 
Before I consider the substance of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, I think its worth mentioning 
that once an LPA receiver is appointed, they are legally acting on behalf of the property 
owner. So, they do not fall within our jurisdiction. 
What that means is that I cant hold HSBC responsible for any decisions G made or how 
they discharged their duties. That includes Mr and Mrs Ss unhappiness about Gs 
unannounced visit to Property A and Gs decision to put Property B up for auction without 
first telling them. 
But I can consider HSBC decision to appoint G. And Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ss explanation 
that in this regard the crux of their complaint is that bank did not follow proper procedures 
because it did not alert them to the appointment beforehand. They say they didnt know 
about the appointment until G contacted them in August 2019. 
Lenders are able to appoint LPA receivers in circumstances where theres been a default on 
their lending. In this case, it is no part of Mr and Mrs Ss case that they werent in default at 
the time of Gs appointment in August 2019. In the circumstances, I am satisfied therefore 
that HSBC were entitled to appoint receivers to recover the debts Mr and Mrs S owed them. 
I am also satisfied from the evidence that the appointment was properly executed. Moreover, 
leading up to that  appointment and based on the letters HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs S in 
particular dated 19 June and 29 July 2019 that they were alerted to the likelihood that if they 
didnt repay their loans in full or put forward acceptable repayment proposals the bank would 
appoint receivers. It is the banks case that the debts were neither repaid in full, nor did it 
receive acceptable repayment proposals. In the circumstances therefore I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair for HSBC to appointed G when they did in August 2019.
 
Ive thought about Mrs and Mrs Ss case that although they received the banks 13 August 
2019 demand they didnt receive the banks other correspondence which preceded it 
including the 11 February 2019 letter and the later 19 June and 29 July 2019 letters which 
mentioned the banks right to appoint receivers. Mr and Mrs S have told us that if the letters 
relied upon by the bank werent sent, then they did not follow proper procedures.Ive also thought about their further argument that historically, in an unrelated case that was 
referred to us for consideration, the bank did not follow its procedures and so, on that basis 
HSBCs credibility should be called into question. But I have to consider each individual case 
on its merits and base my decision on the evidence presented to me on the case at hand.
And on this particular case, Im satisfied, the correspondence Mr and Mrs S say they didnt 
receive was correctly addressed. Indeed, the February, June and July 2019 letters were 
addressed to them at the same address as the banks 13 August 2019 formal demand. Its 
not altogether clear why Mr and Mrs S would only have received the 13 August 2019 letter of 
demand which unlike the earlier correspondence in June and July 2019 did not warn them 
that LPA receivers would be appointed if they didnt comply with the banks request for 
payment. But given the importance of those letters I have no reason to doubt HSBC not only 
wrote but sent them to Mr and Mrs S. Of course, letters can and do sometimes get lost in the 
post. And that could have happened here. But I couldnt reasonably hold HSBC responsible 
for that. 
In summary, like the investigator I have not been persuaded that HSBC failed to follow 
proper procedures before they appointed G in August 2019. I am satisfied they wrote and 
sent letters to Mr and Mrs S to alert them about that possibility and appointed G when they 
did not receive repayment proposals they regarded as satisfactory. In the circumstances I 
am satisfied the bank did not treat Mr and Mrs S unfairly. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman