DRN-4454701
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Euroins AD has settled a claim he made on his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. 
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Euroins has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt unfairly reject a claim.
The policy covers expenses for loss of passport up to a maximum of £500 per 
insured person. Mr W claimed for various expenses including train tickets, public 
transport costs, taxi costs, accommodation. Euroins made a payment of £88.85 as 
they said that only taxis to and from the embassy were covered.
The policy terms and conditions set out what is covered under loss of passport. They 
say:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for:
1. The costs in obtaining a replacement passport or travel document (you 
are not covered for the cost of the document itself) to enable you to return 
to your home country following accidental loss or theft;
2. The costs in obtaining a replacement driving licence or green card 
following accidental loss or theft.
What you are NOT covered for
1. The excess shown in the summary of cover;
2. The cost of the passport, travel document, driving licence or green card;
3. Loss due to delay, detention, confiscation, requisition or damage by 
customs or other officials or authorities;
4. Loss or theft unless you have reported the loss or theft to the nearest 
police authority within 24 hours of discovery and have obtained a written 
police report;
5. Loss or theft from an unattended vehicle;
6. Anything mentioned in the General Exclusions.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint because:
I dont think the policy terms make it clear that only local travel costs to and 
from the embassy are covered.
Mr W claimed for various costs including travelling from his holiday 
destination to the nearest embassy, local travel costs, accommodation whilst 
the passport was being sorted out and a new return flight (as he missed his 
original flight). I think that these costs can reasonably be considered as costs 
in obtaining a replacement passport or travel document to enable him to 
return to his home country. And, in any event, any ambiguity in the policy 
terms is interpreted in Mr Ws favour.
The costs that Mr W claimed for expenses are in excess of the policy limit so I 
cant fairly direct that Mr W should be fully reimbursed for all the expenses he 
initially claimed for. For example, some of those costs related to the parent 
who accompanied him who isnt insured on the same policy. And some of the 
costs claimed were for the cost of the passport itself.
Putting things right
I think Euroins should settle the claim by paying the difference between what its 
agreed to settle and the policy limit. Thats because I think Mr W has claimed for 
reasonable expenses.
And, as Ive outlined above, Im not persuaded Euroins has clearly explained the 
scope of cover under this section of the policy.
Euroins also needs to pay Mr W £50 for the inconvenience of his claim being 
declined which has caused him worry and upset. And they should also pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of the original settlement of the claim to the date of final 
settlement.
If Euroins considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. Euroins didnt respond to my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties havent made any further comments about the outcome of this complaint 
theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion. For the reasons Ive outlined above, 
and in my provisional decision Im upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
Euroins needs to put things right by paying Mr W: The difference between what its agreed to settle and the policy limit. This is 
£500 minus the £88.85 its already paid to Mr W. 
8% simple interest from the date of the original settlement of the claim to the 
date of final settlement. If Euroins considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest it should tell Mr W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
£50 for the inconvenience of Mr Ws claim being declined which has caused 
him worry and upset. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and direct Euroins AD to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman