DRN-2863720
The complaint
Mr I complains that National Westminster Bank plc cancelled his debit card and issued a 
replacement when he was abroad, without telling him.
What happened
Mr I had a current account with NatWest. A debit card was issued on the account. Mr I 
says he told NatWest he was going abroad for five months from around October 2019.
He says his card was cancelled when he was abroad, and he didnt receive any 
notification from NatWest about this. He says he was inconvenienced as a result and 
incurred additional costs. He complained to NatWest.
NatWest investigated his complaint. It said it had replaced his debit card because its fraud 
monitoring system had alerted it to the possibility that the card may have been 
compromised. It said it had issued a replacement card to him on 18 November 2019 and 
in order to minimise inconvenience his old card continued to work until 10 December 
2019.
NatWest also told Mr I it had sent an email to all customers (including Mr I) whod been 
affected by this fraud monitoring alert. It said the email had explained the process to 
replace debit cards and provided a free phone number to contact it if he had any 
questions.
NatWest said it had followed its procedures when it replaced the debit card and hadnt 
done anything wrong. It accepted that it hadnt answered the question hed originally asked 
in his complaint. It said it had now done so. It accepted this meant hed had to come back 
to it. It apologised for this and said it would consider reimbursing him for any costs hed 
incurred as a result of having to come back to it, if he sent it details.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. He thought NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it issued 
the replacement card. He said it was able to do this under its terms and conditions. He said 
it had sent Mr I an email to tell him it would issue a replacement card. So, he said he didnt 
think NatWest needed to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr I didnt agree. He wanted to know what transaction on his account had triggered the 
alert. And, he said he wanted a copy of the email. NatWest said it couldnt provide any 
further information as this might compromise its fraud monitoring system. It also said it 
didnt have a personalised copy of the email, but it had provided a copy of what the email 
had said. So, our investigator didnt change his view.
Mr I didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These state that NatWest 
can suspend or stop access to an account or services on the account (such as a 
debit card) if it reasonably believes that the security details or the debit card details 
havent been kept safe.
Mr I says he didnt ask for his card to be cancelled. He says that previously when 
there was any concern about fraud on his account NatWest contacted him and 
went through specific transactions with him. That didnt happen this time. So, hes 
queried why. He says he believes there was either no compromised transaction or, 
if there was one, the usual process of checking wasnt done correctly.
NatWest says its fraud monitoring system alerted it to concerns about Mr Is card. 
And, its provided a copy of an email it says it sent to all customers affected by this 
alert. It says that this particular fraud alert wasnt specific to Mr Is account or to a 
particular transaction that had taken place or been attempted.
In its final response letter NatWest told Mr I that a number of customers were 
affected by the fraud alert and an email was issued to all of them. NatWest has 
confirmed this was the case. It hasnt been able to provide an audit trail to show 
that it did send an email to Mr I. But, NatWests explanation does set out the reason 
why NatWest didnt contact Mr I about specific transactions on his account.
In these circumstances, I wouldnt expect it to provide details of what triggered its 
fraud monitoring system to raise the alert. That type of information might 
compromise the security of its systems. I have noted that it does have some 
information on its website about when it might need to issue replacement debit 
cards where a customer hasnt requested this:
Why have I received a replacement debit card that I havent requested and 
before my existing card has expired?
We proactively issue replacement cards when there is a risk that the details of 
your existing card have been compromised.
We act quickly to get a new card delivered whilst your existing card remains 
active with the aim of protecting your account whilst minimising 
inconvenience to you.
Having considered what NatWest has said, and the information on its website (set 
out above) I think it acted fairly and reasonably when, as a result of its fraud 
monitoring alert, it decided to cancel Mr Is card and issue a replacement card. The 
old card continued to work for a further 21 days after it had been cancelled.
Mr I says he was abroad at this time. He says he didnt receive the email. As Ive 
mentioned above NatWest hasnt been able to provide evidence to support what its 
said about sending him the email. But Mr I says he phoned NatWest in December 
2019. This wouldve been around the time that his old card stopped working.
Theres no recording of the call. NatWest has searched its systems using the number 
that Mr I has registered with it and says it cannot find the call he says he made to it. 
NatWest has also told us it hasnt retained any records of this matter on its Customer 
Events system. It says it deletes those records after six months. In these 
circumstances I have to consider whats most likely to have happened  taking into 
account all of the information thats been provided.NatWest hasnt been able to trace calls received from Mr Is usual contact number at 
this time. But, I can see that a further replacement card was ordered on 11 
December 2019. So, I think this suggests there mustve been some contact from 
Mr I. And, on balance Im satisfied Mr I did phone NatWest in December 2019. As 
Ive noted above, thats around the time when he wouldve become aware that his 
debit card had stopped working.
Because Mr I was abroad he didnt receive the replacement cards which were sent to 
his address in the UK. As Ive stated above a new card was issued on 11 December 
2019  which supports what Mr I says about being in contact with NatWest at this 
time. Hes also told us hed informed NatWest he was going abroad. He says he did 
this online. And, he says NatWest wouldve known, if it had looked at his recent 
transactions, that he was abroad.
Having thought about what Mr I has said, I think its unlikely that he wouldnt have 
made NatWest aware that he was abroad when he says he spoke to it in December 
2019. And, I can see that there were transactions on his account at this time which 
wouldve shown that he was abroad. In these circumstances I think it would have 
been fair and reasonable for NatWest to have made alternative arrangements with 
him regarding the replacement card after he contacted it in December.
Mr I says he was greatly inconvenienced when he could no longer use his debit card. 
Hes told us that his old card was declined at restaurants and hotels. He also says it 
was attached to airlines and accommodation. So, Im satisfied that as a result of what 
happened he wouldve experienced distress and inconvenience.
I asked Mr I to provide further details to support what hed told us about the distress 
and inconvenience he experienced. He says its difficult to provide evidence of 
distress but as regards the financial costs, he says he had to borrow money whilst he 
was abroad to pay for tickets and accommodation. He hasnt supported this with 
evidence  but I can understand why he says he was inconvenienced because of 
what happened and the distress that wouldve caused him when he was abroad.
In these circumstances, its not possible to be precise about how Mr I should be 
compensated. But taking everything into account, in order to resolve this complaint, 
Ive provisionally decided that NatWest should pay Mr I £250 by way of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about National Westminster Bank plc. In order to resolve this complaint, I 
intend to require it to
Pay Mr I £250 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened.
NatWest said it had no comments to make in response to my provisional decision.
Mr I hasnt responded to my provisional decision. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I uphold this complaint and require NatWest to pay the compensation set out there.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank plc. I 
now require it to:
Pay Mr I £250 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman