DRN-3071511
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Equitable Life Assurance Society (ELAS) has increased the 
charges it makes on his pension plan despite them being fixed at the inception of his policy. 
And he says that ELAS has failed to make him aware, in a fair and transparent manner, that 
those charges were being increased.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr J opened a personal pension plan with ELAS in February 1995. That plan offered 
Mr J a guaranteed return for each year he held it. Mr J transferred his pension plan to 
another provider in February 2020.
The guarantee that had been a feature of Mr Js pension plan was removed in
December 2019 following the agreement of the High Court. I understand that Mr J 
has raised a separate complaint regarding the removal of that guarantee. So in this 
decision I will only be considering his complaint about the charges levied by ELAS 
over the years.
Mr J says that when he first took the pension plan in 1995 the documentation he 
received said that ELASs charges were fixed at 0.5%. He says that he didnt receive 
any notification that those charges were being varied until 2015. And even then he 
says that the information was contained in a general Q&A section of an annual 
statement rather than being shown as specifically applicable to his pension plan. He 
says that it wasnt until 2019 when he was preparing to provide evidence to the 
High Court that the variation in the charges ELAS were adding to his plan became 
apparent.
ELAS says that the charges were not fixed at the outset. It has provided us with a 
copy of the product particulars it says were applicable when Mr J first took the 
pension plan in 1995. That document states that the deductions being made to cover 
ELASs expenses can be varied at the Societys discretion. And ELAS says that 
information about the deductions has been provided in its annual reports that were 
published on its website, and more recently in the annual statements sent to plan 
holders.
ELAS says that Mr J would have been given information about the pension plan 
when he met with its advisor. And Mr J has provided us with copies of the information 
he says he received from the advisor. But ELASs records also show that a further, 
complete, set of information was sent to Mr J by post around three weeks after the 
start of his plan. So ELAS is confident that all the correct information was provided to 
Mr J at the outset.
Mr Js complaint is in regard to the charges that ELAS deducts from his investment 
returns. When he first took the plan those charges were set at 0.5%. But ELAS has 
confirmed that charge has varied over the years, although it hasnt been able to 
provide details of the exact charges before 2015. From that date, it says the amount 
of the charge is shown on the annual statements that are issued to policyholders  
although I will comment on that information in more detail later on.
The first issue that I need to decide here is whether the terms and conditions of 
Mr Js pension plan, and the information he was given at the outset, allowed ELAS to 
vary the charge that was being levied.
Mr J and ELAS dispute the information he was given when he took the pension plan 
out in 1995. I can see from a key features summary document that Mr J received that 
the relevant terms are shown in a document called The Equitable Personal Pension 
Plan Product Particulars. ELAS has provided us with a copy of that document dated 
February 1995. So I am satisfied that this was the version applicable to Mr Js 
pension plan.
 
But Mr J says that he was only given a document titled The Equitable Personal 
Pension Plan Policy Booklet (March 1990). Mr J has provided us with a copy of that 
document from his records, so I think it most likely that he was given that at the time 
he met with the advisor from ELAS. He says that the names of the two documents 
are so similar it would be unreasonable for him to be expected to have noticed the 
document he was given was not that referenced on in the key features leaflet.
I think there is a risk that Mr J wasnt given the Product Particulars document at the 
time of sale. I can see that version had only just been introduced. And the policy 
schedule that Mr J received referred to the relevant policy booklet as being The 
Equitable Personal Pension Plan Policy Booklet (March 1990). So on balance I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mr J to base his understanding of the pension plan on 
the two documents he says he was given  not the information contained in the 
Product Particulars leaflet.
I have considered that ELAS says a further set of documentation would have been 
sent to Mr J by post. ELAS hasnt told me (and perhaps doesnt know) exactly what 
documents were sent to Mr J. And I dont know if they were received. Mr J does 
seem to have carefully kept the paperwork from the time so it is entirely possible that 
these additional copies of the relevant documents didnt reach him safely.
There was a difference in the way the two documents described ELASs charges. 
The key features document simply stated that the charges would be 0.5%. But in the 
product particulars leaflet a further piece of information had been added to say that 
the deduction amount may be varied at the Societys discretion.
But I dont share Mr Js conclusion that the absence of that additional statement in 
the key features document means that ELAS intended to, or agreed to, provide him 
with a fee structure that was fixed for the lifetime of his policy. Pension policies by 
their nature are intended to run for a significant period of time. I think it unlikely that 
any pension provider would give an undertaking that its charges could never be 
varied over a period of up to 40 years or more. I accept that the key features 
document didnt say the charges were variable  but it didnt say they were fixed 
either. So I dont agree with Mr J that ELAS acted outside the relevant terms and 
conditions when it varied the charges that were deducted from his pension plan.However, for completeness, I have considered whether, if I did conclude that ELAS 
had provided insufficient information to Mr J about its right to vary the charges (which 
I dont), that would have led to a different outcome to Mr Js complaint. And having 
done so I dont think the outcome would have been changed.
As I said earlier, in order to uphold the complaint I would need to conclude that ELAS 
had done something wrong (in this case providing incorrect or incomplete information 
to Mr J about its charges), and that if the correct information had been provided Mr J 
would have decided to not proceed with the pension plan.
Mr J has explained that he examined the pension offerings from other providers 
before making his decision to take the ELAS plan. He said that the charges from 
another provider were much higher, and that is what made the ELAS proposal 
attractive. But from my experience no providers at that time would have offered Mr J 
a pension plan that had fixed charges for its duration. So even if ELAS had explained 
more clearly that it could vary the charges in the future Im not persuaded that Mr J 
would have rejected the pension plan on that basis. ELASs charges were still more 
attractive than other providers. So I dont think Mr Js complaint would succeed on 
that basis either.
 
Mr J has also complained that ELAS failed to provide him with any clear information 
about its charges and any changes that were made from year to year. ELAS has said 
that it doesnt hold that information in relation to Mr Js plan before 2015, but that all 
holders of that plan would have been treated equally in terms of the charges that 
were deducted.
I dont think that anything in the terms and conditions, either the 1990 version or the 
1995 product particulars, requires ELAS to proactively notify policyholders 
individually of changes to its charges. I can see that ELASs website does hold 
copies of its annual report dating back to 1999. And ELAS has pointed out that those 
documents do provide information about the relevant charges.
I can appreciate that since 2015 the information about charges has also been 
contained in the annual summaries sent to policyholders. I have seen that Mr J 
doesnt consider that information to have been sufficiently clear. He points out that 
the information is contained in a generic Q&A section rather than within the details of 
his specific plan. And he says the wording of that information doesnt make it clear 
that it applies to all pension plans of the same type as his.
I accept that Mr J wasnt individually notified by ELAS when it altered the charges it 
applied to his pension plan. But as Ive said earlier, I dont think it needed to  and 
I dont think it had given Mr J any assurance that the charges would be fixed for the 
lifetime of his plan.
There is potentially an argument that if Mr J had been aware from the outset of the 
variable nature of the charges hed have paid more attention to them, and noticed 
any changes earlier. But I can also see that, even after Mr J says he became aware 
of the higher charges, he sought to remain a member of the existing plan  
presenting evidence to the High Court hearing, and raising a complaint with this 
Service. So Im not persuaded that, whilst the guaranteed investment returns 
remained in place, knowledge of the increased charges would have made the 
pension plan unattractive to Mr J.
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing for Mr J. But I dont currently think 
the information he received from ELAS  or the relevant terms and conditions of his pension plan  meant that the charges could not be varied. And I dont currently think 
ELAS did anything wrong, or caused any detriment to Mr J, by not individually 
informing him of any changes to its charges.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr J and ELAS have commented further on what I said. Although 
here I am only summarising what Mr J and ELAS have said, I want to reassure both parties 
that I have read, and carefully considered, their entire responses before reaching my final 
decision.
ELAS has said that its policy at the time was for the key features and product particulars of 
the policy to be provided to the client during the initial meeting  it says it has no reason to 
believe this didnt happen in this case. And both versions of the product particulars 
document (dated 12.94 and 2.95) explained that the charges may be varied at ELASs 
discretion. ELAS has also reiterated that a full set of documentation was sent to Mr J on 
16 March 1995. It says it has no reason to suspect that these werent received.
Mr J has expressed his disappointment with my provisional findings. He says it is unfair for 
ELAS to rely on information that might have been sent after hed agreed to take the pension 
plan. He says that he has clearly shown the documents that he was given at the time of sale 
and so must conclude that they were applicable to his policy.
Mr J has explained why he retained the pension policy even after the higher charges were 
known to him. He first says that a financial advisor recommended that he leave the ELAS 
pension plan in 2008 due to its underperformance. He says that he rejected that advice 
since the policy charges were low and the growth was contractually guaranteed. And when 
the details of the charges became clear as part of the High Court discussions, leaving at that 
time would have meant he would lose the compensatory winding-up payment.
Mr J says that at the time he took out the pension plan he was not an expert in these 
matters. So he says that he wouldnt have had any knowledge about how charges on plans 
from other providers would be structured. He says that would have been of little concern to 
him since he had signed up to what he understood to be a plan with fixed charges. He 
doesnt agree with my conclusion that the absence of clarity on whether or not the charges 
were variable, means they werent fixed. And Mr J remains concerned that ELAS has been 
unable to provide him with specific details of the charges to his plan over its lifetime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that much of what Mr J has said in response to my provisional decision was covered 
in the findings I reached. So he hasnt provided me with anything that leads me to conclude 
that I should change those provisional conclusions. But I would like to take the opportunity to 
provide some further commentary on some of the specific points that he has raised.
Id agree with Mr J that it might be unfair to allow the terms of a contract to be changed 
retrospectively. But as I said in my provisional decision, to reach that conclusion, Id also 
need to be persuaded that those revised terms would have dissuaded him from making the 
purchase at the time. I still dont think that is the case. I think that the guaranteed income 
offered by the pension plan was sufficiently attractive to Mr J that he would have proceeded 
regardless.It seems clear that, given his representations to the High Court and the other complaint he 
has brought to this Service, Mr J would prefer to be allowed to continue with his existing 
pension plan arrangements. And that is now in the knowledge that the charges on the plan 
are variable. So although I understand and accept Mr Js reasoning for why he didnt move 
his pension savings as soon as he says he became aware of the variable charges, it doesnt 
suggest to me that the variable nature of the charges was so unattractive that he wouldnt 
have taken the policy in the first place.
Despite what ELAS has said, I am persuaded that Mr J didnt receive all the relevant 
documentation when he first took the plan. I think his meeting with the advisor took place 
around the time that the documentation was being refreshed. And so on balance I think it 
most likely that some of the booklets he was given had been superseded. But I also accept 
ELASs representations that a full set of documentation would have been sent to Mr J by 
post shortly afterwards. And as Ive explained above, Im not persuaded that the likely 
shortfall in the documentation at the time of sale caused Mr J to make a different purchasing 
decision.
I have no way of knowing for certain what information ELAS holds about the charges it has 
levied on Mr Js pension plan over the years. But I have no reason to conclude that it is 
deliberately with-holding that information either from this Service or from Mr J. Given my 
earlier findings I see little benefit for ELAS in doing so. On balance I conclude that it is most 
likely that information, in a form specific to Mr Js pension holdings, either was never 
produced, or no longer exists.
I know this decision is disappointing for Mr J. But I dont think the relevant terms and 
conditions of his pension plan  or at the very least the documentation he received shortly 
afterwards - meant that the charges could not be varied. And I dont think ELAS did anything 
wrong, or caused any detriment to Mr J, by not individually informing him of any changes to 
its charges.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against The Equitable Life Assurance Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman