DRN-2204933
The complaint
Mr T complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mr T approached Drafty for a running credit facility in September 2018. He was given a 
facility with a credit limit of £1,000. This later increased, to £1,700 in December 2018 and 
then to £2,400 in January 2019. Subsequently, in January 2020, Drafty suspended the 
account. When Mr T complained to this Service. As of June 2020 there was still an 
outstanding balance that needed to be repaid. 
   
This was a running credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint. She thought that the checks Drafty 
carried out before granting the facility were proportionate, so it wasnt wrong for Drafty to 
have initially approved it. But, she thought that Drafty shouldve completed further checks 
when it granted the credit limit increase in December 2018. The adjudicator said that had 
further checks been completed, Drafty wouldve seen that Mr Ts expenditure exceeded his 
income, indicating the credit increase or further funding wasnt affordable.     
Mr T appears to agree with the adjudicators view. Drafty hasnt responded so I dont know 
what it thinks about the adjudicators view. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr T doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Drafty wasnt wrong to 
have granted the facility or the drawdowns before December 2018. It seems therefore that 
this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about it. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Drafty did anything wrong when it increased 
Mr Ts credit limit in December 2018 and allowed further drawdowns. But Ive kept the 
previous lending in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between Drafty 
and Mr T. 
It was important for Drafty to look at how Mr T used the facility with a view to see if there was 
a point at which Drafty should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. 
 
When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be 
expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties 
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Mr T used the facility in order to 
step in, if and when, he showed signs of possible financial difficulties.
 
I agree with the adjudicator that Drafty shouldnt have granted further drawdowns from         
December 2018 because I dont think it carried out enough checks before granting the credit 
limit increase in December 2018. 
Under the credit agreement when Mr T was given the facility, there was an expectation that 
hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. So 
overall, I think that this means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough 
information for it to be able to understand whether Mr T would likely be able to service and 
then repay this facility within a reasonable period.
Mr T drew down the full credit limit (£1,000) on 5 September 2018 when the facility was 
granted. After hed drawn down again in October 2018 and then repaid the facilitys 
outstanding balance, he drew down £1,000 three days later. In November 2018, Mr T made 
payments of £72.20 and £50, leaving him with an outstanding balance of around the credit 
limit by the end of the month. 
I understand Drafty then increased Mr Ts credit limit on 4 December 2018, to £1,700. On 
4 December 2018, Mr T drew down £300, followed by drawdowns of £400 (on 6 December 
2018) and £50 (on 9 December 2018). These drawdowns increased his outstanding balance 
up to the new credit limit. 
I agree with our adjudicator that Drafty shouldve completed further checks by this point. 
After all, Drafty was increasing the credit limit quite substantially even though, for the most 
part, by December 2018 Mr T hadnt made any inroads into repaying a significant 
outstanding balance - a sign that, possibly, he may not have been repaying it sustainably.  
As a responsible lender I think Drafty shouldve carried out a full review of his financial 
circumstances in order to fairly decide whether the increase in the facilitys credit limit was 
affordable and sustainable.  
At this point Drafty couldve asked for evidence of Mr Ts income and expenditure through 
wage slips, bills or bank statements to gain a better understanding of his finances. Mr T has 
provided us with his bank statements, so I dont think it is unreasonable to use these in order 
to gain an understanding of his actual financial position at the time. 
Having looked at these from October 2018, I think it is reasonably clear that Drafty shouldnt 
have allowed any further drawdowns from 4 December 2018. As the adjudicator has 
explained, it seems that Mr Ts expenditure (such as for his mortgage, food, travel, car 
finance, household costs, loans and credit cards) exceeded his income. He was also making 
payments to short-term lenders and paying overdraft fees and charges  other signs he was 
probably having problems managing his money.  Looking at all this together, as a responsible lender I think Drafty ought to have realised that 
Mr T wasnt able to service and repay the increase in the credit limit or sustainably take on 
any further drawdowns.
Putting things right
Drafty should:  
 
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance that were 
applied to drawdowns from 4 December 2018;
Drafty should then rework the account from 4 December 2018 so Mr T only has to 
repay the principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Mr T as if it 
went towards the outstanding principal balance;
If and when Mr T had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment 
should be refunded to Mr T. To this overpayment 8% simple interest a year should be 
added from the date the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, it should 
try and make an arrangement with Mr T to repay the balance. But Id remind Drafty of 
its obligation to treat Mr T fairly;  
remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Ts credit file from 4 
December 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman