DRN-3164814
The complaint
Miss C complains Monzo Bank Ltd closed her account and defaulted her unfairly.
What happened
Miss C had an account with Monzo.
Monzo says Miss C contacted them on 5 August 2020 to say that her car had been broken 
into and that her mobile phone, debit card and other belongings had been stolen. Monzo 
says Miss C also told them at the time that there were transactions on her account that she 
didnt recognise. Monzo investigated these transactions. Following its investigation, Monzo 
decided to close Miss Cs account.
Monzo says Miss C contacted them again  after it had said it was going to close her 
account  to say that someone else had been impersonating her and that there werent any 
unauthorised transactions on her account. Following this call, Monzo says it decided to close 
Miss Cs account sooner than it had originally planned.
Miss Cs account was £100 overdrawn when it was closed. Miss C says she wanted to repay 
the overdraft but Monzo didnt send her the details of how to do so. Monzo says it defaulted 
Miss Cs account because she didnt repay the overdraft. Miss C complained to us saying 
that Monzo had acted unfairly defaulting her. She also complained saying Monzo had acted 
unfairly closing her account.
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint and said that they didnt think that Monzo 
had acted unfairly. Miss C disagreed and wanted an ombudsman to look into her complaint. 
So Ive done that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive spoken to Miss C on the phone as she wanted to send us additional evidence and said it 
would be easier to speak on the phone. When we spoke, Miss C told me that she now 
believes her ex-partner might have been the person who:
(a) stole her mobile phone, card and other belongings; and
(b) impersonated her.
Shes also told me  in as much detail as she can remember  what she says happened in 
this case.
Ive had a look at Miss Cs file  including the evidence that both Monzo and Miss C has sent 
us  since speaking to Miss C. Having done so, I dont think Monzo has acted unfairly. Ill 
explain why.
Both sides have sent us a considerable amount of evidence.
Monzo has put together a strong case to suggest that Miss C called and contacted them 
several times between 5 and 10 August 2020 to report that:
(a) her mobile phone and debit card, amongst other things, had been stolen from her 
car; and
(b) there had been approximately 60 unauthorised transactions on her account.
Monzo has also put together a strong case to suggest that Miss C called them again on 20 
August 2020 to say that:
(a) she hadnt spoken to them on 10 August 2020; and
(b) someone else impersonating her had called them.
Miss Cs case, in comparison, is inconsistent in many places, including on key issues. For 
example, Miss C told me that shes never disputed transactions on her account  and that 
the person who called Monzo to dispute transactions wasnt her  but I can see she called 
us on 20 August 2020 to complain about unauthorised transactions on her account. Thats 
not the only inconsistency either. Miss C told us that she never recovered her mobile phone, 
but told me that one of her friends located her mobile phone and recovered it from a boy. 
On balance, taking all the evidence into account, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it decided to close Miss Cs account. Nor do I think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Monzo to re-open Miss Cs account, even taking everything else she has 
told me. So Im not going to uphold that part of Miss Cs complaint.
I can see that Miss Cs account was £100 overdrawn when it was closed on 10 September 
2020. Neither party is disputing this. Miss C doesnt, however, think its fair that Monzo 
defaulted her because she didnt know how to go about repaying the overdraft. Its true that 
when an account is closed it isnt so straightforward paying off any outstanding balance. I 
can, however, see that Monzo gave Miss C until 9 November to repay her overdraft. Miss C 
says that she was having to use someone elses device to access her emails so wasnt able 
to check them all the time. That may or may not be the case, but even if she only had 
occasional access to her emails, I do think she was aware her overdraft needed repaying 
and that she had sufficient opportunity to repay it before the account was defaulted. So I 
dont think Monzo acted unfairly here either.
My final decision
My Final Decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman