DRN-4504580
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF). 
Mr W has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr 
W in my decision
What happened
In June 2022, Mr W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with SMF. The 
car was about three years old and had travelled around 112,800 miles when it was supplied 
to Mr W. The cash price of the car was £11,999. Mr W paid a deposit of £1000, so the total 
amount financed on this agreement was £10,999 payable over 60 months.
Mr W said that within six months of acquiring the car he experienced a number of issues 
related to the AdBlue system which resulted in the breakdown of the car on more than one 
occasion. Mr W said that he first reported the issue to the dealership in October 2022 after 
hed driven about 6,000 miles. However, he said that in January 2023 the car failed and was 
recovered to a manufacturer dealer, who advised a specialist was required to resolve the 
problem with the AdBlue. 
Mr W said he reported the issues to SMF. An independent inspection of the car was 
arranged by the broker, and was carried out on the 14 February 2023. At the point of 
inspection Mr W had driven the car about 8,800 miles. The inspection report concluded that 
whilst there were issues identified, due to the mileage covered, it wasnt considered that the 
issue would have been developing or present at the point of supply. 
Mr W disagreed with the conclusions of the inspection report and felt the inspectors werent 
given the full facts before arriving at their outcome. 
In February 2023 Mr W brought his complaint to our service for investigation. In March 2023 
our service raised a complaint with SMF on Mr Ws behalf. Mr W also arranged for the 
manufacturer garage to carry out a diagnostic and quotation for repair. The diagnostic 
commentary advised the injectors were over-fuelling and had contaminated the DPF and 
AdBlue system. The invoice dated 3 March 2023 quoted £4,116 for a repair. 
In May 2023 Mr W told our investigator that the car broke down again, and that hed spent 
around £2,570 on reports and repairs. Mr W said he just wanted all his money back. Mr W 
also confirmed that hed SORN the car and cancelled the insurance on it, as itd become 
unusable. He told us he wasnt making any further payments towards the agreement.
In July 2023 SMF issued their final response. They didnt uphold the complaint as they 
concluded there was no evidence to say the faults were present or developing at the point of 
supply. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Mr 
Ws complaint should not be upheld. The investigator concluded that they werent persuaded 
the problem with the AdBlue was present at the point of supply.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view. He believed the independent inspection report 
was flawed because it didnt consider the faults with the AdBlue occurred within the first six 
months of supply, and that the dealership made an attempt to fix the issue in December 
2022.  However, as the investigators view remained unchanged, Mr W asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mr Ws complaint about SMF. 
SMF is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement, and is responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that SMF supplied Mr W with a used vehicle that had travelled about 
112,800 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage which may impact its overall quality and 
reliability; so, thered be an increased likelihood of unforeseen problems surfacing sooner 
than in a new vehicle.  
Having said that, the car was priced at around £12,000 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt 
a particularly old vehicle. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could offer a reasonable duration without any major issues, for example, especially if it has 
been well maintained and serviced.  
From the information provided Im satisfied there was a fault with the cars AdBlue system. 
This is apparent from the diagnostic invoice from the manufacture garage which confirmed 
the AdBlue system was contaminated. The independent inspection report, arranged by the 
broker, also confirmed the AdBlue warning light was illuminated during their inspection. So, having considered the AdBlue system was faulty, Ive considered whether it was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
satisfactory quality
Mr W told us that after collecting the car he had to contact the dealership around three times 
to enquire about the AdBlue system, he also says it was returned to them in December 2022 
for them to fix the fault.
Mr W provided us with emails that he sent to the dealership in December 2022 where he 
confirmed his car had been dropped off for repairs to the AdBlue system and turbo.  
In a further email from Mr W in December 2022, he said that the dealership told him no leak 
could be found in the AdBlue system, but a new turbo was on order.
Mr W provided our investigator with correspondence from the broker and dealership from 
December 2022, however, neither confirmed what the fault was, or that there was an 
inherent problem with the AdBlue system.
The diagnostic invoice advised that the car wouldnt start due to an AdBlue fault. It also said 
that the AdBlue system has been contaminated through the injector over fuelling. So, 
although Im persuaded the AdBlue system was being impacted at that point, and how, the 
invoice doesnt give the root cause of the problem or when it was likely to have developed. It 
also doesnt appear to link the issue at that point to any of the problems that Mr W reported 
to the dealership in December 2022.  
Overall, I have evidence showing that Mr W reported issues with the car within the first six 
months of supply and that he wanted to return it, but I havent seen any expert evidence 
confirming what the fault was, or that the AdBlue system was in fact faulty at that point.
In their email to us in July 2023, SMF referred to the independent inspection report that was 
arranged by the broker. 
The inspection was carried out in February 2023, around a month after Mr W said his car 
had broken down. The report confirmed the engine wouldnt start, it also confirmed an 
AdBlue warning light was present. However, although the report confirmed faults were 
present it didnt consider the reported faults would have been present or developing at the 
point of supply.
I acknowledge Mr W has said the report should be withdrawn, however, I recognise the 
inspection was carried out by an industry expert and specialist. Ive seen no reason to doubt 
the credibility or validity of the inspection or the report. 
From the information provided, I have evidence that a fault with the AdBlue system exists, 
but what I dont have is evidence which says it was a problem when the car was supplied to 
Mr W. 
Further evidence that persuades me the AdBlue system wasnt inherently faulty is that Mr W 
was able to travel around 8,000 miles up to the point of the inspection. I think its reasonable 
to say that the amount of miles driven by Mr W since supply isnt insignificant. Considering 
the miles were completed within about eight months, I think this reasonably demonstrates 
that he was able to have fair usage of the car up to that point. I acknowledge Mr W says hes 
been topping up the AdBlue often, however, Im not persuaded hed have the opportunity to 
travel that distance had the AdBlue system been inherently faulty.I acknowledge the report from the manufacture garage, outlining fault codes, that Mr W 
shared with us. However, unlike the invoices or independent inspection report, it doesnt 
have any specific commentary which details the likely causes of the fault codes or when they 
would have been created. So, it doesnt persuade me of the quality of the car when it was 
supplied.
All things considered, from all the information on file, Im persuaded the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W.
Mr W has made a significant submission to us in relation to this complaint; and much of it 
sets out his believe that the AdBlue system wasnt performing as it should have been. I 
acknowledge his strength of feeling about this and the financial impact he says its had on 
him. However, without expert evidence to support what Mr W has said about when the fault 
occurred, I find it reasonable to conclude that the fault with the AdBlue system wasnt 
present when he acquired the car.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require SMF to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Specialist Motor Finance Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman