DRN-2622977
Complaint
Mrs A has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Mrs A took out the PPI policy alongside a credit card she applied for in July 2000.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Mrs As outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs A returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,
so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 February 2021 and explained that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by our adjudicator, but I provided some further clarification and gave Mrs A 
and AXA an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs A that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent
before applying PPI to her account.
Mrs A says PPI was not presented to her as being optional. AXA says it was and its
provided a copy of Mrs As application form for me to consider.
Looking at the form, there is a section about Account Cover  PPI. This broadly explains
what the cover is and underneath, there is a statement to say yes to Account Cover. In
brackets it says, Only sign this box if you require Account Cover. I can see Mrs A signed in
the box, indicating she wanted the PPI added to her account. So, I think Mrs A was aware
she had a choice about buying PPI and that she chose to take it at the time.
AXA says it didnt give Mrs A any advice, but Mrs A says it did. Weve seen a number of
similar sales by AXA and its my understanding that it didnt usually offer advice. And I
havent seen anything on the application form to suggest AXA reviewed Mrs As
circumstances at the time of sale. So, I dont think AXA gave Mrs A advice and that means it
didnt have to check the policy was right for her. But AXA did need to give her enough
information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have
been. But Mrs A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy
didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about her
circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think better
information would have stopped her buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest the
policy wasnt affordable for Mrs A.
Mrs A says she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if she
was off sick from work. She also says she had some savings and that her parents could
have helped her. Finally, Mrs A says she had life and critical illness cover along with a policy
she described as being personal injury cover.
Ive thought about whether I think its likely Mrs A had the level of sick pay she says she did,
considering the industry she worked in, the job title she held and her length of employment.
Its very unusual for the employer Mrs A worked for to offer such generous sick pay to its
employees after Mrs As length of service  around one year. So, in the absence of anything
persuasive to support what Mrs As told us, I dont think the likely sick pay she would have
been entitled to at the time of sale would have meant the policy wasnt useful to her. And
even if she would have received the level shes said  the policy would have paid out in
addition to this. And Mrs A could have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period.
So, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs A if she fell on hard times.
Mrs A told us that she was saving towards a deposit for a house, so I think she would have
wanted to avoid using her savings to make her credit card repayments if she was too unwell
to work or lost her job. And while her parents may have offered to help, circumstances could
change which means their help could not always be relied on. So, I dont think this shows the
policy wasnt right for her.
Ive also thought about the other cover Mrs A says she held. But life and critical illness cover
provide different protection to PPI. And it is unclear what type of protection the personal
injury cover Mrs A mentioned would have provided. To my knowledge, personal injury cover
also provides a different type of protection to PPI. But Mrs A mentioned that it would have
paid her a monthly amount  which is unusual for this type of policy. So, I asked Mrs A for
more information about the policy in order to check whether this would have made a
difference. Following two requests, I havent received anything further.
So, based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont think better information would have changed
Mrs As decision to take the policy and I think it could have been useful to her.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A and AXA have not provided anything further for me to consider. So, as Ive not 
received any new evidence or information, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons. That means I dont think Mrs As PPI 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman