DRN-1800566
The complaint
Mr B says AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly charged an extra premium on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B purchased a car insurance policy online with AXA in February 2019. Mr B declared a 
no claims discount (NCD) of twelve years, and also declared he hadnt had any accidents or 
claims within the last three years.
AXA asked Mr B for proof of NCD and found Mr B had three years rather than the twelve he 
disclosed. AXA adjusted Mr Bs premium to reflect this which he paid.
AXA then discovered Mr B had an open claim on the shared insurance database from      
July 2018, so it adjusted his premium to reflect this also.
Mr B complained to AXA about the second increase in his premium. Mr B said he answered 
the application questions to the best of his knowledge and felt the second payment increase 
was unfair. He added that he told AXA about the accident when he discussed the reason for 
his NCD being reduced. 
AXA didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that had Mr B declared the correct information 
when he set up the policy, this would have been reflected in the total premium quoted. AXA 
refunded Mr B £25 as a gesture of goodwill for its delays in handling the case.
Mr B didnt accept AXAs response and complained to our service. Mr B also cancelled his 
policy in October 2019 and received a pro-rata refund. 
Our investigator reviewed everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
found AXA had applied the premium increases fairly and in line with the information it knew 
about Mr B. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the question asked by AXA on the 
application screen was unclear and ambiguous. He said he did not know he was involved in 
a formal accident and reiterated he provided information that was correct to the best of his 
knowledge. Mr B said AXA should have adjusted his premium in one go when he told them 
the reason for his reduced NCD.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
concluded AXAs offer to ask Mr B to pay an additional premium was reasonable and found 
it had clearly explained the reasons for this to Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said AXA 
had purposely withheld information about the price to make sure he purchased the policy, 
and if hed known the true cost from the start he would have purchased a cheaper policy 
elsewhere. Mr B added he felt the point of sale wasnt limited to the online application and 
instead covered the whole customer journey. Mr B also felt £25 wasnt enough for the poor 
service hed received.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached and for the reasons 
below.
Ive carefully considered all the points Mr B raised in his complaint. But the issue I need to 
determine here is if AXA has dealt with Mr B fairly and reasonably in relation to the second 
premium increase. So Ill focus on the key issues below.
AXA has said Mr B failed to disclose he was involved in an incident in July 2018, and Ive 
seen the evidence that shows this claim.
Ive seen the questions Mr B was asked on the website when he took out the policy. Mr B 
was asked have you had or been involved in any accidents, claims or damage involving any 
motor vehicle in the past three years, whether or not a claim was made, regardless of 
blame. Mr B answered No.
I appreciate Mr B has said he didnt think he was involved in a formal claim. But I think the 
question here is clear in that Mr B was required to disclose any damage, whether or not a 
claim was made. So I dont think Mr B took reasonable care in answering this question. As 
such, he made what is known in the insurance industry as a qualifying misrepresentation.
I think it was reasonable for AXA to query this with Mr B once it was made aware there was 
a claim relating to him. And there is specific legislation that sets out what insurers may do in 
a situation such as this - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). 
AXA has shown it would have continued to offer cover to Mr B but with a higher premium. 
CIDRA says the actions available to AXA would be to either cancel Mr Bs policy or tell Mr B 
it would settle any future claims on a proportionate basis.
CIDRA doesnt say AXA can impose an additional premium here. But I can see it did contact 
Mr B and let him know the options in regard to the policy. The calls Ive listened to between 
AXA and Mr B are clear  AXA gave Mr B the option to pay the additional premium and 
asked him how he wanted to proceed. I think this was a reasonable approach for AXA to 
take considering the potential impact of cancelling Mr Bs policy.
Mr B says AXA had enough information available to consider the open claim when he 
discussed the reasons for the NCD discount being reduced. And having considered 
everything, it is possible this could have been done sooner. But ultimately, if Mr B had 
provided the correct information at the point of application, AXA would have generated the 
correct premium for him to make a decision on taking the policy. So I dont think it would be 
reasonable to require AXA to refund the second premium increase.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments about AXA withholding information and the point of sale 
application covering the whole customer journey. I havent seen any evidence of AXA withholding information here. And I have already explained why I feel Mr B didnt take 
reasonable care in answering the application questions.
Ive also considered what Mr B has said about the fact he would have cancelled the policy 
earlier and walked away if he had known about the premium increase. But I can see Mr B 
got a pro-rata refund from AXA when he cancelled the policy later on. So he hasnt lost out. 
AXA offered Mr B £25 for the delays in dealing with his complaint. I think AXAs offer for the 
delay is reasonable and I dont think it needs to compensate Mr B further.
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer to settle the complaint is reasonable 
and I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman