DRN-2923216
The complaint
Miss W complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. She 
wants to reject the car.
What happened
Miss W entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance in April 2019 to 
acquire a used car. The car was around five years old and had a mileage of over 50,000.
Miss W says she entered the agreement on 9 April 2019 and went to collect the car as 
agreed on 11 April. However, there were several issues and so it was agreed repairs would 
take place. The car was delivered late on 19 April and Miss W says when she drove it the 
next day it was clear the repairs hadnt taken place. She says the car didnt have the power 
she was told, an engine management light was on, there were several dents and the car 
smelt. She also says she wasnt provided with the paperwork. Miss W contacted the dealer 
about the issues on 20 April and asked to return the car. She says that after a couple of days 
the dealer asked her to bring the car in, but the sales adviser then told her to keep the car for 
three months.
Miss W contacted Oodle Car Finance on 3 May 2019 to reject the car. She was asked for 
further information that she says she sent. Miss W says there were delays in getting a 
response and she was then sent a copy of a MOT certificate from April 2019 and a valet 
receipt. Miss W disputed these as the MOT wasnt showing on the government website and 
she didnt believe the car had been valeted. The car was inspected on 2 August, but Miss W 
says the inspector didnt have the full information about when the issues had arisen and that 
after she provided this, the inspector said the issues would have been present from the point 
of supply.
Miss W says that due to the April 2019 MOT not being recorded she had to have another 
MOT carried out in September 2019 and pay for repairs (costing her £357.49) in order for 
the car to pass the MOT.
Oodle Car Finance says that an independent inspection took place on 2 August which 
concluded that the faults had most likely developed during Miss Ws ownership rather than 
being inherent at the point of sale. It issued a final response letter dated 4 December 2019 
saying that there wasnt evidence the faults were present from the point of supply and so it 
didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator thought that the power issue 
with the car was more likely than not present at the point of supply. Given the time that had 
passed and the deterioration in the relationship between Miss W and the dealer, he thought 
the fairest resolution was for repairs to be carried out to remedy the power issue and these 
take place at a mutually acceptable garage.
Oodle Car Finance accepted our investigators view. Miss W didnt. Miss W reiterated that 
she raised her concerns with the dealer within 24 hours of taking delivery of the car and 
contacted Oodle Car Finance within the first two weeks due to the dealer not communicating 
with her. She said the fault had been confirmed and so she should now be allowed to reject 
the car and have her payments refunded. Miss W further explained that the dealer had since 
paid around £400 for cosmetic work and offered to repair the car or sell it to cover Miss Ws 
finance.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss W identified issues with the car which were agreed to be addressed before 
collection. The day after Miss W collected the car she realised the issues previously 
raised hadnt been addressed and there were several issues with the car. 
Miss W raised her concerns with the dealer and then with Oodle Car Finance and 
said she wished to terminate her agreement. This was within 30 days of Miss W 
collecting the car. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), a consumer 
has a short term right to reject if a fault is identified within the first 30 days and the 
consumer asks to reject the car within this time. 
I was satisfied that the issues Miss W raised shortly after acquisition with the dealer 
and Oodle Car Finance were confirmed as faults by the independent inspection 
report and so I accepted that the car Miss W was provided with had faults that were 
present from the point of supply and wasnt of satisfactory quality.
There was an issue with the MOT as although the dealer provided a copy this didnt 
have the cars registration number and the MOT wasnt recorded on the government 
website. I thought this, along with repairs that were agreed before collection not 
happening, suggested the car was misrepresented to Miss W.
Overall, given Miss W identified issues (that were later confirmed as faults) within the 
first 30 days and she asked to reject the car at that time, and there were concerns 
about how the car was sold to Miss W, I found the fairest resolution to this complaint 
was for Miss W to be allowed to reject the car, have her deposit refunded (along with 
interest) and any adverse information regarding the agreement removed from her 
credit file.
Miss W had to have a MOT undertaken in September 2019. At this time, she needed 
to have some work carried out. I thought the repairs mainly related to serviceable 
items and given the age and mileage of the car it was reasonable to accept these as 
wear and tear. 
I understood the registration plates needed to be replaced as they werent legal. As 
this is how the registration plates were supplied I didnt think this was a cost that 
Miss W should be liable for and so I said this cost should be refunded.
Miss W didnt maintain her payments due under the agreement. The issues she 
experienced meant she didnt have full use of the car and she explained that the car 
was SORN for three months before she started to use it again. I found it reasonable 
that Miss W wasnt held liable for the payments that fell due while the car was SORN, 
but I found she should be required to pay for periods when she had use of the car.Miss Ws use of the car was impaired, and I found it fair that for any months Miss W 
was liable for the payments these should be reduced by 30% to reflect her loss of 
enjoyment of the car.
The issues caused Miss W distress and inconvenience and I thought Oodle Car 
Finance should pay Miss W a further £150 for the inconvenience she was caused by 
not being allowed to reject the car much sooner.
No new information as provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusion 
hasnt changed, and I uphold this complaint.
Miss W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance. 
Under the regulations, specifically the CRA 2015, Oodle Car Finance can be held liable if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account 
factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect 
taking into account all the circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think that the car Miss W acquired was of 
satisfactory quality. Miss W made her desire to reject the car known within the first 30 days 
and I think this should have been accepted. I also think that the issue with the MOT and the 
agreed repairs not taking place suggested the car was mis-sold. Overall I think the fair 
resolution to this complaint is for Miss W to be allowed to reject the car and have her deposit 
refunded.
As I have already explained, I think Miss W should be liable for the payments that fell due 
while she had use of the car but not while it was SORN. However, I think the payments she 
remains liable for should be reduced by 30% to reflect the loss of enjoyment she 
experienced. I also think that compensation of £150 is reasonable for the trouble and upset 
Miss W has been caused.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Oodle Financial Services Limited 
trading as Oodle Car Finance. The following actions should be taken to resolve this 
complaint:
1. Miss W s agreement should be cancelled with nothing further owing and the car 
collected at no cost to Miss W;
2. Miss W should not be held liable for the repayments while the car was SORN 
(evidence to be provided) and should have any payments made during this period 
refunded along with her associated costs for this time, such as insurance, (subject to 
evidence of costs);
3. Miss W should remain liable for the payments due for the time she was using the car, 
but these payments should be subject to a refund of 30% (or the liability reduced by 
30% if payment wasnt made) to reflect the loss of enjoyment the issues have caused 
her;
4. Miss Ws deposit should be refunded;5. Miss W should be refunded the cost of the number plates being replaced and 50% of 
the cost of the September 2019 MOT to reflect this was needed six months after 
acquisition even though she was told a MOT had taken place in April 2019; and
6. any adverse information relating the agreement should be removed from Miss Ws 
credit file.
Items 2, 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest (to the extent they are refunds) from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement*.
*If Oodle Car Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as 
Oodle Car Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman