DRN-3592794
The complaint
Mr O is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded an amount he paid on his debit 
card for a trip abroad.
Mr O has been represented by other people in this complaint. But for ease of reference I 
shall refer to anything another party has said or provided as being provided by Mr O.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr O bought a trip through an online travel agent  who I shall refer to as 
S. He was scheduled to travel from 1 April 2020 to 21 July 2020. He made two payments of 
£1,681 and £135.36 respectively to pay for the trip.
Due to the impact of Covid-19 the flights were cancelled so Mr O was unable to travel. Mr O 
initially sought to get a refund from S, but was unsuccessful. S subsequently went into 
administration, so Mr O contacted Lloyds to request a refund. He says he was told by the 
call handler that he was in time to do so and asked for some information that Mr O says he 
sent straight away. 
Lloyds successfully processed the chargeback claim for £135.36. However, Lloyds later 
contacted Mr O to say he was too late to bring the claim for the other payment. But it offered 
him £150 in compensation for the incorrect information he was initially given and for not 
returning calls. Mr O didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought it was fair for Lloyds to say Mr O 
had raised the claim too late. Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He reiterated that 
Lloyds call handler had told him he wasnt too late, so he thinks its unfair he's lost out. And 
he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the relevant card scheme  which in this case is VISA.
It's important for me to highlight that its not this services role to say whether a chargeback 
would have been successful, but we consider whether a card provider has acted fairly or not. 
Where we think it hasnt, we then need to consider whether we think the consumer has lost 
out or not.
VISA sets out in its rules that the chargeback needed to be raised within 120 days from the 
last date the cardholder [Mr O] expected to receive the merchandise or services. Mr O was 
due to return on 21 July 2020, so the chargeback claim needed to be raised by 
19 November 2020. But the first date Ive seen that Mr O contacted Lloyds to raise the 
chargeback was 27 November 2020. 
Mr O has said that he did raise the chargeback in time. He also says he was specifically told 
by Lloyds hed brought it in time. However, I havent seen anything to show he did contact 
Lloyds before 27 November 2020. Lloyds has said that, under the chargeback rules, it would 
have been a valid defence available to S that the claim had been raised too late. So it didnt 
process the claim.
Ultimately, card providers are entitled to think about whether theres a reasonable prospect 
of a chargeback claim succeeding when deciding whether to process the claim or not. In this 
case, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to think there wasnt reasonable prospects 
of success due to the claim being raised too late.
I accept Lloyds call handler may initially have told Mr O that hed brought the claim in time, 
but this was incorrect advice.  However, while he was given incorrect information, I need to 
think about whether Mr O has lost out as a result of this, but I dont think he has. I dont 
dispute it would be upsetting to be told he was in time, only to later find out he was too late. 
What should have happened is that the call handler should have told him at the start that he 
was likely to be too late to bring the claim, but the relevant team would look into it and let him 
know. But, regardless of what he was or should have been told, the situation wouldnt have 
changed as he was still too late to bring the claim under VISAs rules. And nothing Lloyds 
has said or done changes that. So I cant reasonably require Lloyds to refund the £1,681 
Mr O paid.
However, I accept Mr O has suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of whats 
happened. I do think the majority of the distress is down to the fact he hasnt had a refund of 
the £1,681 hed saved to go travelling. And I naturally sympathise with the situation hes 
found himself in. But it seems fault for this rests with S and I cant require Lloyds to 
compensate him for the actions of another party. 
That said, I think Lloyds could have managed Mr Os expectations better when he first called 
to discuss the claim. I also understand Lloyds didnt return some telephone calls. However, it 
has already offered Mr O £150 in compensation and this is in the range of compensation I 
would have awarded. So I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that Lloyds Bank PLCs 
compensation offer of £150 is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. It 
should pay this to Mr O directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman