DRN-4234026
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) handled a 
claim under her car insurance policy which resulted in her car being sold without her 
knowledge. 
What happened
Miss M had a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne covering her car, which had been 
bought using a finance arrangement with a third-party finance company who Ill refer to as 
B. Miss M has made a separate complaint about Bs service.
In early July 2022, Miss Ms car was damaged in an accident and was recovered to a police 
compound. Miss M made a claim from Mulsanne.
Mulsannes repairers werent able to find time to repair her car due to their capacity and it 
thought the car might have been beyond economical repair. 
Miss M was under the impression that the car was going to be repaired. She was supplied 
with a courtesy car by Mulsanne
The car wasnt able to be stored any longer in the compound so B were contacted to have it 
removed. B told Miss M to remove it and she told Mulsanne. 
Mulsanne didnt collect the car, so it was collected by B who then sold it. Miss M was left 
with a balance to pay on her finance agreement which included Bs fees and costs of 
£1,486.56.
Mulsanne found that the car wasnt in the compound on 24 August and Miss M told it on 15 
September that it had been sold.
Miss M made a series of calls to Mulsanne to chase it for information and updates. She also 
chased it by email repeatedly. She raised a complaint to Mulsanne but it didnt provide her 
with its final response.
As she was unhappy, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into Miss Ms complaint and upheld it. She thought Miss M should be put back into the 
position she was in before the car was sold. This meant that Mulsanne should settle Miss 
Ms claim as though the car had been written-off, less the amount received by B. 
She also said Mulsanne should pay for the costs of storing the car in the police compound. 
All the amounts should have interest added at 8% simple. Our investigator also thought 
Mulsanne should pay Miss M £1,000 for her distress and inconvenience, and an additional 
£500 because of the loss of use of her car.
Mulsanne replied to the view and asked a question about the cost of the storage. 
Miss M didnt think the compensation was sufficient given the length of time it has taken 
Mulsanne to deal with her claim and the work shed had to do to chase it up. She thought a 
figure of over £2,500 would be more appropriate. 
She asked for the decision to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider the mater further. This is 
below:
Ive read the file of evidence Ive been provided and I can see that Mulsannes service has 
been very poor throughout Miss Ms claim.
I can see that Miss M contacted a third-party company who provide an accident 
management service to make a claim. This company provided Miss M with a hire car as part 
of its service until it asked for the car back on about 20 September.
But this third-party company wasnt able to arrange the repair and passed the claim back to 
Mulsanne. As far as Miss M was concerned, her car was going to be repaired. But Mulsanne 
didnt arrange this, and didnt recover the car from storage. 
I can see from the file that Mulsanne was aware the car may have been a write-off about two 
weeks after the accident, but it then seemed to do nothing to progress the claim for a further 
six weeks. When it tried to recover the car, it had already been collected and disposed of by 
B.
And I cant say any of that was Miss Ms fault.
From the evidence I have, it seems that Mulsanne hasnt yet settled Miss Ms claim for the 
loss of her car leaving her with a substantial amount outstanding on her finance with B. 
Its my understanding that Miss M has raised a complaint about B. I wont be commenting 
further on this matter here, apart from mentioning that if shes unhappy with its response 
then she can bring her complaint to this service.
Miss M has told this service that she was left without a car, with a young family, and a 
default on her credit file that has meant shes struggled to arrange to borrow money for a 
replacement car. Shes talked about her inconvenience and how shes struggled to get 
around for an extended period of time. Shes talked about her distress about how shes been 
treated by Mulsanne.
Ive thought carefully about the situation Miss M was put in. Her car was disposed of by B 
after Mulsanne failed to understand the situation and handle the cars recovery. 
Part of Mulsannes policy wording says it will pay reasonable storage costs, and the cost of 
recovery. Ive asked Miss M to clarify these costs with B, and she has confirmed that the 
amount outstanding on her credit agreement are the repossession costs, which total 
£1,486.56.
I think its fair to ask Mulsanne to pay these costs. I would normally apply interest at 8% 
simple on this figure, but I can see B has frozen the interest it charges so I wont ask it to pay 
interest in this case.
The policy wording also says how it will pay for claims where the car is declared a total loss. 
In Miss Ms case, this would mean that she receives the market value of the car, as at the 
time of loss. Mulsanne should quickly settle Miss Ms claim by paying her its market value. Im aware that 
Miss M might struggle to find out what the value of her car was in July 2022, but this service 
has an established approach to this, using trade guides. 
So, if Miss M is unhappy with Mulsannes valuation of her car, she is free to complain to it 
and this service in due course if she remains unhappy. 
Its clear to me that Mulsannes service has been poor and Miss Ms distress has been 
significant. Ive thought carefully about the impact on her and her family, and I think a figure 
of £1,000 compensation is appropriate given the extended time shes spent chasing up her 
claim and the confusion it has caused her. I know Miss M has asked for more, but I think this 
figure is in line with this services approach. 
Ive also considered Miss Ms inconvenience which has been considerable. She has 
explained the impact on her family and the default on her credit record which has caused her 
significant issues with buying another vehicle. Taking all this into account, I think a further 
payment of £500 would be appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mulsanne responded and asked 
about whether it would be deducting the salvage value of the vehicle from its settlement 
figure. I responded and said I expect the full market value should be paid to Miss M, subject 
to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Mulsanne didnt respond further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss M accepted my decision and Mulsanne didnt respond further, my final decision and 
reasoning remain the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Settle Miss Ms claim by paying her the market value of her car as at the time of loss, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay £1,486.56 in storage and recovery charges. This can be made to B to clear her 
account, or to Miss M, and I request that the parties liaise to arrange the speedy 
payment of this.
Pay Miss M a total of £1,500 for her distress and inconvenience.
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman