DRN-2953847
The complaint
Mr H, a sole trader trading as H, is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited handled his
claim under his buildings insurance following damage at his commercial premises.
What happened
H (a sole trader), who is a third party in law for the purpose of this case, had buildings 
insurance with Ageas to cover commercial premises. J rented these premises from H  
which J used as a wholesale bathroom showroom. J had business insurance with Ageas 
which, among other things, covered its stock and business interruption. Mr H is a sole 
trader  trading as H  and also the director of J. 
On 19 February 2018, the gutter next to the roof of Hs property, which J rented, was 
damaged causing water to come in. Mr H said he attempted a repair immediately, but 
this wasnt successful. 
The next day, Mr H got a quote for approximately £13,000 to repair the roof.  
On 23 February 2018, Ageass loss adjuster visited the property. The report noted 
several pallets of stock were affected by the water coming in; and that a small amount of 
stock was damaged by water that spread across the floor. While not covered by the 
report, Ageas told us that Mr H agreed to repair the roof (at least temporarily). But Mr H 
said he only speculatively asked about carrying out the restoration works  but he didnt 
offer to repair the roof. He said Ageas agreed the quote hed obtained seemed 
expensive, so the loss adjuster asked him to get others.   
From 27 February 2018, it rained daily until 18 March 2018 causing further water 
damage. 
On 6 and 8 March 2018, Mr H purchased materials to carry out a temporary repair. 
On 7 March 2018, the loss adjuster contacted Mr H. They said they were waiting for 
Ageass decision on liability (to indemnify under Hs and Js business policies) and asked 
for information to support the stock lost and for reinstating the damaged displays.  
On 14 March 2018, Mr H appointed a loss assessor. (In general, loss assessors act for 
policyholders where loss adjusters act for insurers.) On the same day, the loss assessor 
emailed the brokers asking them to contact the loss adjuster to urgently arrange a site 
visit. They also explained they instructed Mr H to move the damaged stock to hired 
containers for inspection, shut down the damaged showroom and set up a temporary 
showroom. 
On 19 March 2018, Mr H chased the loss adjuster by email, saying hed been trying to 
call since last week. He said he needed their agreement to hire containers. 
The same day, the loss adjuster contacted Mr H. They asked for confirmation that a 
temporary repair had been carried out and suggested they didnt object to container hire. 
They again asked for details of the stock loss, so they could arrange a second site visit. 
And they offered a contractor if further drying was needed. 
Between 19 and 21 March 2018, Mr H carried out a temporary repair to the roof, which 
was largely successful. 
From 22 March 2018, Js stock was moved to hired containers. 
In April 2018, Mr H started to strip out the displays and began to dry the property. He 
also submitted quotes to permanently repair the roof. This included a quote for Mr H to 
repair the roof. However, Ageas approved a different contractor. 
In the same month, the loss adjuster requested further information  about the stock, 
financial information for the business-interruption claim, and costs for the strip-out, 
drying-out and reinstatement claim. They also explained that the showroom area is 
categorised under the policy as tenant improvements, which J wasnt covered for. This 
meant the strip-out or re-fitting of studwork, ceilings or electrics wasnt covered. They 
also turned down Mr Hs proposal for a temporary showroom  they believed it would be 
quicker to reinstate the damaged showroom. 
In response, the loss assessor said Mr Hs accountants were preparing the overall stock 
value and financial information. And that, given the damage, it was taking time to detail 
the stock lost. They also believed the showroom was covered under Hs building policy 
and, in general, highlighted Ageass lack of assistance with the claim. 
In May 2018, work continued to strip out plumbing, electrics, internal walls and insulation. 
Around June 2018, the roof was permanently repaired and Mr H withdrew the drying 
equipment on account of the better weather. 
In July 2018, the loss adjuster visited the site again. They noted the stock was moved to 
containers and the units had been stripped out. As the drying wasnt complete, they 
instructed a contractor to look into this. Mr H refused, as his own company was carrying 
out the works. The loss adjuster also confirmed receipt of information about Js stock. 
In the same month, Mr H submitted a scope of work to Ageas. The works had been 
carried out by A, a company Mr H set up which ultimately was part of J. 
Given the increase in reserve (i.e. the sum an insurer estimates for indemnifying a 
claim) and questions over documents, a reservation of rights was issued by Ageas. In 
other words, it had not committed to covering the claim in full or at all. In August 2018, 
those acting for Ageas interviewed Mr H. In summary: 
oMr H explained he only speculatively asked about carrying out the works himself 
during the initial site visit  he denied agreeing to repair the roof. And said that he 
carried out the temporary repair as a last resort  due to construction regulations 
and health and safety, he shouldnt have been on the roof. The interviewer 
referenced Mr Hs quote to carry out a full repair in April 2018  asking why hed 
not done that sooner. Mr H said he wasnt authorised by them to do so. 
oMr H explained he specifically set up A to carry out the works, given Ageass lack 
of action. In September 2018, Ageas asked further questions via email about the initial repairs, As 
invoices, as well as requests for information about Js business interruption. In October 
2018, Mr H responded to this. Around November 2018, a new loss adjuster was 
appointed and Mr Hs loss assessor was told the claim would be covered. 
In January 2019, the loss assessor submitted a bundle to support the claim  including 
details of the stock lost, tender documents, strip-out costs, and the temporary showroom 
costings. Details of Js business interruption claim followed shortly after, further to input 
from Mr Hs accountant. 
Following disagreements over the settlement and Ageass decision not to renew Hs or 
Js policies, Mr H raised a complaint. In February 2019, Ageas responded. It noted how 
the reserve for the claim had significantly increased and that, given this, a surveyor 
would attend the site.  
In April 2019, further to another site visit, Ageas proposed an offer to settle the claim: 
oIt said its ability to assess the claim had been prejudiced because Mr H had 
moved the stock and stripped-out the property. 
oIt offered £51,900 for Hs buildings claim (minus the excess and amounts already 
settled). This excluded what Ageas believed were tenant improvements, which 
werent covered under either policy. 
o£15,000 for Js stock lost. It said this claim was overstated and unsubstantiated  
noting how items were unlikely to have been affected by the path of water, and 
that the nature of the bathroom items meant they couldve been repackaged.
o£31,000 for Js business interruption. This was based on a comparison with the 
previous year from March to November, inclusive. This ignored a negative trend 
in business before the incident and any delays in the restoration works. It also 
included £8,000 for container hire costs. 
oIt wouldnt pay for the temporary showroom, as it wasnt clear how it financially 
benefited the business interruption claim  or whether it was just a temporary 
measure. 
oIt also wouldnt cover £50,000 marketing/advertising costs, as these werent 
substantiated. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H bought Js and Hs complaints to us. In summary: 
oHe considered that Ageass inaction following his notification of the claim is what 
led to both the further damage and the actions he had to take to restore the 
property. He disputed that he agreed to repair the roof and that he didnt mitigate 
H or Js losses. 
oAgeas hasnt substantiated its offer of settlement, whereas he spent time 
substantiating Hs and Js claims. 
oHe considered that the internal structures that Ageas describes as tenant 
improvements should fall under Hs buildings insurance.  oIn relation to Js business interruption claim, Ageas hasnt properly accounted for 
the money he put into the business to keep it running.  
Prior to J and H bringing the complaints to our service, Ageas paid £20,000 in interim 
payments, as well as settling the invoice for the permanent roof repair. During the 
course of our investigation, Ageas has also paid £66,750, which represents the 
outstanding balance under its offer of settlement for Hs and Js claims.  
In July 2021, I sent my provisional findings which didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive 
included these findings in my decision. 
Ageas didnt add anything further by the deadline. Mr H disagreed with my findings  
in summary: 
oIt was a legal error to suggest that despite health and safety regulations, he 
and his employees repair the roof in the rain. 
oMy findings are contradictory  they said Ageas told us that Mr H agreed to 
repair the roof, and it also noted that Mr H attempted a repair immediately. 
oI ignored how Ageas didnt reply to Mr Hs emails at a crucial time  after the 
damage happened while it was still raining. 
oIve supported Ageas offer of settlement. So Ive not carried out my own 
calculations nor have I sought to confirm Mr Hs calculations. In doing so, Ive 
ignored an expert witnesss report, meter readings, and photos on the 
condition of the building and goods. 
oMy findings were different to those of our investigator, and I said I was 
unlikely to reverse my provisional decision. 
oIve not considered how Ageas redacted information from Mr Hs data subject 
access request. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mr Hs response, my decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Thats not to say that my mind couldnt have been changed. But that the response hasnt 
persuaded me that it should be. 
Mr H has asked me to reply to each of his points. Ive considered his responses, alongside 
the file in its entirety, very carefully. But my role as an ombudsman is to reach a decision and 
explain why. So, its not to address every point if I dont think its material to the outcome of 
the complaint.  
I have, however, commented on the key issues in Mr Hs response as I see them: 
mitigation 
Mr H said it wouldve been against health and safety regulations to repair the roof in 
the rain.Im satisfied my provisional findings addressed this point as follows:
I recognise it rained for some time after the damage happened. But there was a clear 
period at the start  and some days with much less rain. Theres also no independent 
evidence to say that a temporary repair couldnt have reasonably been carried out 
sooner, given the rain, to make the premises watertight. 
 
Mr H hasnt presented any specific regulations  only that a contractor must work in a 
manner that secures the health and safety of those involved. I accept that, but this 
still relies on Mr Hs own opinion that what was being asked here  a temporary 
repair  wouldve been contrary to health and safety in these circumstances. As Ive 
explained, he cant be an expert on his own cause. 
And even if I accept Mr Hs point, he still hasnt persuaded me why a temporary 
repair wasnt made during the clear period immediately after the damage happened. 
It follows that theres still no independent evidence to support that the work couldnt 
have been carried out sooner  either as a result of the weather conditions, and/or as 
a result of the time needed to purchase materials and carry out research.  
Mr H also said my provisional findings were contradictory: they said Ageas told us 
Mr H agreed to repair the roof, and they also noted that Mr H attempted a repair 
immediately.
In Mr Hs submissions to us, he said that on the day the damage happened, he 
unsuccessfully attempted to repair the roof. I dont think that means Mr H couldnt 
have offered to repair the roof in his meeting with the loss adjuster a few days later. 
My provisional findings set out why I think thats the case, so I wont repeat this again 
here. 
Mr H also said how Ageas ignored his emails at a crucial time. The evidence Ive 
seen suggests there was around a week, in mid-March, where Mr H was contacting 
the loss adjuster but didnt hear back. I dont think this was a significant delay  nor 
do I think it materially changed Js position. Thats because Im persuaded that Mr H 
had already agreed to carry out a temporary repair. And I note that in the 
communication with the loss adjuster, there wasnt any specific mention that the 
temporary roof repair was outstanding and required input from the insurer. Instead, 
the focus was gaining authorisation for the container hire. So, in all, I dont think the 
insurers communication is to blame for the temporary repair not being sorted out 
sooner. 
settlement for Hs building claim
Mr H said I supported Ageas offer of settlement, without carrying out my own 
calculations, and that I ignored an expert witnesss report, meter readings, and 
photos of the condition of the goods. 
My provisional findings explained why I believed Ageass offer of settlement was fair 
 so Ive reached this decision not despite the evidence, but because of it. 
Mr H said I ignored an expert witnesss report. It seems that Mr H is referring to his 
loss assessor. To be clear, I have considered his input but given that hes acting for Mr H, I dont think this carries the same weight as if it came from an expert who was 
entirely independent. 
Mr H also highlighted the meter readings, photos and videos taken. I accept these 
show damage, but Im not satisfied theyre enough to show that the actions Mr H took 
to repair the damage were necessary. Again, to show that, I wouldve needed to have 
seen independent expert evidence, or that Mr H submitted estimates to Ageas for 
them to review before going ahead with the work, as the policy terms set out. 
other matters 
Mr H has raised concerns with how his data subject access request (DSAR) was 
redacted by Ageas. For the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that Ive enough 
information to reach a fair decision on this complaint  Im not persuaded there is 
further information I needed to see.
Should Mr H wish to raise concerns specifically about how Ageas handled the DSAR, 
then hell need to approach Ageas first, as I cant see thats been raised and 
considered by it yet. 
My provisional findings 
For completeness, Ive included my provisional findings below. 
This provisional decision solely addresses Hs claim under the buildings insurance policy.
Thats necessary given that H is a distinct entity under a separate insurance policy.
However, given that both claims stem from the same event, I have considered both
complaints  and naturally, parts of my findings overlap. I have issued a separate but linked
decision on Js complaint.
mitigation
Ageas said it authorised Mr H to carry out temporary repairs during its initial site visit in
February 2018. Mr H said he speculatively asked about carrying out the work  meaning the
general building reinstatement  and that he never said he would repair the roof. He has
added he was asked to find other quotes to permanently repair it, given the expense of the
first one he got. But otherwise, he wasnt given any direction or offered any help.
The report the loss adjuster prepared is silent on what was discussed about repairs. But both
sides agree some sort of conversation took place. I cant be certain of what was discussed,
but civil disputes like this are only decided on the balance of probabilities. In other words,
whats more likely than not to have happened.
Here, I think its more likely that Mr H gave the impression hed carry out a temporary repair,
and the loss adjuster agreed with his proposal. Thats because:
Mr H bought materials to carry out a temporary repair on 6 and 8 March 2018  so 
after the initial site visit and before he next heard from the loss adjuster. I think its 
unlikely Mr H wouldve done this if it hadnt been discussed during the initial visit.
In an email from the loss adjuster on 19 March 2018, they asked Mr H to confirm hed 
done a temporary repair. Had this not been agreed, Id have expected Mr H or his 
loss assessor to have disputed it at the time. But theres no evidence of that. Instead, 
the temporary repair started that day. This contemporaneous evidence (or lack of) tends to be more persuasive than recollections of a conversation that took place 
months or years ago.
While Mr H and his loss assessor chased the loss adjuster, they didnt specifically 
mention the roof. Given the amount of water coming in, Id have expected this issue 
to have been raised if nothing had been agreed. Instead, the focus was getting 
authorisation to hire containers, to move the stock. 
It seems plausible that Mr H offered to repair. I recognise it wasnt his immediate 
expertise, but it wasnt beyond his capabilities, as evidenced by the eventual 
temporary repair and his offer to carry out the permanent repair (and with a 
guarantee too).
So, having concluded that Mr H gave the impression hed carry out a temporary repair, Ive 
considered whether he did so in a timely manner  to mitigate H and Js losses. I dont think 
he did. Thats because:
Mr H explained the temporary repair wasnt straightforward  it took weeks of 
research, he had to source the materials, and it took several men a few days to carry 
out the repair. But given the weather forecast and the likelihood that failing to take 
any action would cause significant damage, I think this temporary repair ought to 
have taken priority. And theres no independent evidence to persuade me that the 
time taken to research the temporary repair, purchase the materials, and carry it out 
 i.e. four weeks  was unavoidable.
I recognise it rained for some time after the damage happened. But there was a clear 
period at the start  and some days with much less rain. Theres also no independent 
evidence to say that a temporary repair couldnt have reasonably been carried out 
sooner, given the rain, to make the premises watertight.
When Mr H was asked during his interview why he didnt carry out a repair sooner, 
he said, among other things, it was because he wasnt authorised. For the reasons 
Ive explained, I think there was in fact an agreement made about effecting a 
temporary repair. But Ive also not seen any correspondence where Mr H specifically 
sought authorisation to carry out repairs to the roof. If he was waiting for this, I think 
its likely hed have asked at the time. So, this doesnt change my mind.
So, in all, I think its likely Mr H didnt take the action he gave Ageas the impression he would
take in a timely enough manner  and in doing so, I think he didnt adequately mitigate H or
Js losses, potentially prejudicing Ageass position as insurer of both companies.
Ive kept this in mind when Ive considered Ageass offer of settlement.
settlement for Hs building claim
The schedule of work submitted by Mr H and his loss assessor suggests costs in excess of
£400,000 to complete the reinstatement work to the premises. Further to a surveyors visit,
Ageas offered £51,900 to settle the clam.
It seems the significant difference comes down to two things: Ageas declined to cover what it
considered were Js tenant improvements; and it believed that Mr H overstated the damage
and the work needed.
Ive considered the first point. Mr H has acknowledged that J, as a tenant, fitted out the
premises to facilitate the bathroom displays. But hes said he believed he was covered as hispolicy description is quoted as Bathroom Showroom Wholesale.
Ive reviewed Hs policy schedule and terms and conditions. To be clear, the documents
Mr H has referred to are in fact Js policys schedule. Hs schedule refers to the business as 
Property Owners. It lists the premises covered and says its occupied as Furniture storage 
and bathroom showroom. Theres a message to refer to the policy wording for full details of 
the cover, before it explained that H is insured for Buildings. Thats got a particular 
definition in the policy wording:
The buildings at the risk address shown on the schedule and unless otherwise stated, any
item for the insurance of buildings includes:
a outbuildings within the boundaries of the premises
b aerials, satellite dishes, security cameras and lights fixed to the exterior of the buildings
c plant fixed to the exterior of the buildings providing air conditioning or climate control to the
buildings
d solar water heating and solar photovoltaic panels fitted to the buildings
e fuel tanks and septic tanks connected to the buildings
f ducting, pipes, cables, wires and control equipment incorporated in the buildings and
extending to the public mains
g walls, gates and fences around the premises and belonging to them
h swimming pools, car parks, yards, roads, pavements, paths and childrens play areas
i permanently fixed lighting, seating and other external structures within the boundaries of the 
premises
j landlords fixtures and fittings (including fixed flooring other than fitted carpets)
all belonging to you or for which you are responsible but excluding:
i glass, blinds and signs
ii landlords contents
iii contents of common areas.
So while Hs fixtures and fittings are covered (as Js landlord), Im satisfied Js fit-out to
facilitate the bathroom showroom isnt covered under Hs policy. Thats because those
aspects dont belong to H and  as a separate legal entity  its not responsible for them.
And that makes sense  H has no insurable interest in something where it doesnt stand to
lose out from their loss or damage.
Mr H said the schedules description led him to believe thats what H was covered for. But
that only explained what the premises were used for  I dont think it suggests that H, as a
landlord, is covered for anything thats been added in connection with its use. Particularly
when its read in context with the entire schedule, which Im satisfied clearly explained H is
covered for buildings, which has a specific policy definition.
If Mr H was led to believe that Js fit-out was covered, thats a separate matter he can raise
with the broker of the policy. But, in all, Im satisfied Ageas acted fairly when it said there
wasnt cover under Hs policy for Js tenant improvements.
Ive gone on to consider the other key dispute over the settlement, where Ageas stated Mr H
overstated the damage and the loss cant be substantiated. It seems this is based on Mr Hs
decision to entirely strip-out the premises  removing the blockwork, steelwork and uPVC
doors and windows.
To be clear, Mr H used contractors he owned (A, which was part of J) to carry out the work.
Its suggested that was because Ageas didnt help with the claim. Ive seen that the loss
adjuster did offer a contractor to carry out the drying on 19 March 2018 (and it seems this
was offered again later on). And its at least agreed that Mr H asked about carrying out the
work at the first site visit. So I think it was always Mr Hs intention to use his own contractors,
regardless of Ageass conduct.There was nothing wrong in principle with Mr Hs choice to do that. But it did mean Ageas
wouldnt obtain estimates and settle matters directly with the contractors. Instead, it was for
Mr H to provide As estimates  so Ageas had the opportunity to review them before work
went ahead. But here, the schedule of work was submitted in July 2018, when the premises
had already been entirely stripped out, and most of the internal structures thrown way. This
was arguably in breach of the policy terms and conditions (my emphasis):
Replacement service
We have a number of suppliers that can repair your property or replace items lost, stolen or
damaged beyond repair. If one of our suppliers is used you will not need to obtain
estimates and we will settle directly with the supplier. You will be responsible for payment
of any applicable excess. You will be responsible for the payment of the Value Added Tax
(VAT) element if you are VAT registered. You will be invoiced accordingly.
What we will need
If your property is lost, damaged or stolen, to consider the claim we will typically need:
 Proof of ownership i.e. original purchase invoices, bank account statements or other similar
evidence.
 Any available photographs, taken before and after the event, showing the property would be
useful.
If you are not using our replacement service we will also need:
 at least two estimates for the replacement of lost, damaged or stolen items
 if the item cannot be repaired, a letter or a report from an independent expert
confirming this and the cause of the damage.
For some types of claim we may require evidence of:
 bona-fide subcontractors own public liability insurance
 risk assessment and preventative measures in respect of legionellosis.
Insurers can fairly decline to indemnify claims if the policyholder is in breach of contract and
the breach is material to the circumstances of the loss and the insurers potential liability 
see, for example, section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 (my emphasis again):
(1) This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance, other than a
term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to reduce the risk of one or
more of the following
(a) loss of a particular kind,
(b) loss at a particular location,
(c) loss at a particular time.
(2) If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not rely on the
non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the contract for the loss if the
insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3) The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the
term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the
circumstances in which it occurred.
It seems to me that carrying out repair works without giving Ageas an opportunity to review
estimates  or to confirm with independent expert evidence the nature and extent of the loss
 was likely to have prejudiced its position and increased the risk. So I have to bear in mind
when considering the fairness of its settlement that Ageas did not decline indemnity
altogether for breach of condition  but made an offer based on what had been made
available to it by Mr H.
Mr H again has pointed to Ageas lack of assistance with the claim as the reason. As Ive
noted, the loss assessor offered a contractor in March 2018, and Ive also seen they asked
for information about the drying, strip-out and reinstatement costs in April 2018. But theresno evidence that Mr H replied with specific information about the work being undertaken.
Thats in contrast to other areas of the claim, like the hired containers, where Mr H did ask
for authorisation.
So Im not persuaded Ageas had a fair opportunity to challenge the work carried out to the
premises. And, as a matter of common sense, its not clear it was. You wouldnt ordinarily
expect that the premises would need to be stripped out in its entirety  and that nothing
could be dried in situ. Its equally difficult to see how elements such as the uPVC windows
and doors could be totally damaged by water.
In saying this, I do appreciate Mr H and his loss assessors experience with these matters.
But they cant be an independent expert in their own cause. And its now not possible to get
an independent expert to support what theyve said.
Taking this all into account, I dont think the entirety of Hs claim has been substantiated, and
I think Ageass decision to remove such aspects from its settlement was fair and reasonable.
conclusion
So in all, I think the key discrepancies between Hs and Ageass proposed figures are valid 
Im not persuaded theres cover for tenant improvements, nor do I think Hs claim was
entirely substantiated. And bearing in mind my conclusion that Mr H didnt adequately
mitigate Hs losses  making the damage worse than it needed to be  Im satisfied that, in
all the circumstances, Ageas reached a fair settlement to Hs building claim. And Ive not
seen any further arguments or evidence as to why a different settlement should be awarded.
As I said in my linked decision on this matter, I know how disappointing and upsetting this
news will be for Mr H. But I must reach a decision on what both sides have presented. And
having considered this carefully, I think Ageas settled Hs claim fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman