DRN-1800466
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered to settle a subsidence 
claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N made a claim for subsidence after noticing cracking to his bay window. AXA appointed 
a loss adjuster who inspected the damage and arranged for some investigations to be 
carried out. This included surveying the drains and nearby vegetation, as well as carrying out 
soil tests beneath the bay.
AXA accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and covered by the policy. It thought 
the problem had been caused by nearby vegetation drying out the clay soil. It said the 
vegetation should be removed in order to stabilise the bay. 
Mr N took some advice from a building engineer who said the foundation of the bay should 
be made deeper. Mr N asked the loss adjuster if it would pay for this to be done. The loss 
adjuster said it wasnt necessary to make the foundation deeper.
Mr N agreed to remove the vegetation and was later reimbursed the cost of doing this by 
AXA. The loss adjuster also identified some problems with the drainage system and had 
those repaired.
Mr N complained to AXA about the loss adjusters decision not to pay to make the 
foundation deeper. AXA said the foundation was likely fit for purpose when it was built. Tree 
removal and drain repairs had been carried out to deal with the subsidence problem. And it 
wasnt responsible for preventing future damage or rectifying pre-existing problems with the 
property. AXA identified some delays during the claim and paid Mr N £350 compensation.
Mr N referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She 
was satisfied the loss adjusters recommendations would bring about a lasting solution to the 
subsidence problem  without the need to make the foundation deeper. Mr N disagreed and 
made a number of points including:-
The risk of heave following the removal of the vegetation
The depth of the current foundations do not comply with current building standards
Reference to a case study from our website
Points raised by his engineer hadnt been addressed
 As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. Ill 
explain why.
AXA has accepted the bay has been damaged by subsidence and the claim is covered by 
the policy. Its paid for trees and other vegetation to be removed and the drains to be 
repaired. Its also agreed to pay for repairs to the bay to be carried out.
This complaint is essentially about whether AXA should also pay to make the foundation of 
the bay deeper.
When AXA deals with a subsidence claim, I think it should ensure a lasting and effective 
repair of the damage. That means stabilising the building before repairs are carried out.
The policy only covers the cost of repairing the subsidence damage. It doesnt cover the cost 
of improving the foundations. But if I thought the evidence showed that was the only way for 
AXA to stabilise the bay, I may find it fair for AXA to pay for it. So, Ive considered the 
information provided by AXA and Mr N about the stability of the bay.
The loss adjuster has maintained that removing the vegetation is likely to achieve stability. 
They noted the bay stood for around 30 years prior to this damage happening. And they 
hadnt found any signs of previous movement when they inspected the damage. They 
concluded the cause of the subsidence was the exceptionally dry summer of 2018 together 
with the growth of vegetation close to the bay.
The loss adjusters view is that if the foundations of the bay were inadequate, movement 
would have occurred much sooner. And because there were no signs of movement until 
recently, the foundations have been shown to be adequate over an extended period of time. 
With the trees thought to be the cause of the recent subsidence problem removed, the loss 
adjuster expects the subsidence movement to stop and the bay to stabilise.
Mr Ns engineer said the foundation is about 0.8m deep. Both he and the loss adjuster 
accept this was appropriate and in line with relevant guidance at the time it was built.
Prior to the removal of the vegetation, Mr Ns engineer said damage would likely reoccur 
within a short period of time unless the foundation was made deeper. I think the loss adjuster 
effectively agreed with that because they recommended vegetation was removed.
With the vegetation removed, Mr Ns engineer said the foundation should be around 1.2m 
deep. This seems to be based on guidance for improving foundations and complying with 
current building standards, rather than a concern that further subsidence is likely even with 
the vegetation removed.
Whether the foundation complies with current standards isnt what determines whether AXA 
should improve it. The key consideration for me is whether AXA can stabilise the bay in 
order to carry out a lasting and effective repair. If AXA were unable to stop the movement by 
removing trees and had to improve the foundation to achieve stability, then I might expect it 
to take into account current building standards when deciding how to improve the 
foundation.
Given the evidence available, I think the loss adjusters conclusions are reasonable and Im 
persuaded stability will be achieved without the need to make the foundation deeper. The 
bay stood undamaged for a significant length of time except for a recent, intervening cause 
identified as the growth of vegetation. With that removed, theres persuasive expert evidence 
that the situation will return to the way it was before with a stable bay. Because of that I dont 
think AXA is required to pay to make the foundation deeper.Mr N has said heave is a possibility after vegetation is removed. And I can see his engineer 
has mentioned it too. I accept ground movement can be difficult to predict with precision. But 
I havent seen anything which indicates heave  or any other type of ground movement  is 
likely to occur to a degree that means the bay wont stabilise following vegetation removal.
Mr N has referred to case studies on our website which he thinks support his point of view. 
The case studies we provide are for general information and dont set a precedent. We 
consider each case on its own merits. Nonetheless Ive considered the principles set out in 
the case studies as I know Mr N feels theyre relevant to his complaint. I can see why he 
feels that way, because the case studies describe similar circumstances to his  but there 
are important differences.
In the case studies hes referred to, each insurer had agreed further movement was likely 
unless the foundation was made deeper  but had declined to pay to improve the foundation 
for various reasons. Effectively the insurers had accepted they hadnt stabilised the 
buildings. We said that was unfair.
In Mr Ns case, AXA is satisfied movement will cease as a result of removing vegetation. 
And for the reasons I gave above, Im satisfied AXA has shown it can achieve stability 
without making the foundation deeper.
When Mr N made his complaint about the way AXA offered to settle the complaint, AXA also 
considered how the claim had been handled up to that point. It identified some delays and 
paid Mr N compensation as a result.
I think this was the fair thing to do. I can see there were times, particularly in the earlier 
stages of the claim, where there were avoidable delays. There were often unreasonable 
gaps between activities and Mr N wasnt always updated promptly about what was 
happening. And when he first shared his engineers advice about the foundation depth, he 
received some confusing responses.
Overall, I think the service Mr N was offered by AXA during the claim wasnt always 
reasonable and I expect that would have added to the distress and inconvenience of dealing 
with a subsidence claim. Im satisfied the £350 AXA has already paid Mr N is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman