DRN-3463288
The complaint
Miss W wants Vanquis Bank Limited to remove a missed payment marker from her credit 
file.
What happened
On 23 October 2021 Miss W sent a cheque to Vanquis to pay her account. Vanquis didnt 
receive the cheque and so applied a late fee of £12. Miss W rang to find out what had 
happened on 9 November 2021, Vanquis said it would investigate and call back, but failed 
to.
Miss W then raised a complaint on 23 November 2021. Vanquis sent a final response letter 
on 30 November 2021 explaining that it had never received the cheque. It apologised for not 
calling Miss W back and offered £50 in compensation for this, and a refund of the £12 late 
payment fee. However, as Miss W had used the wrong postcode when she mailed the 
cheque it refused to remove the late payment marker.
Our investigator felt Vanquis response was fair and didnt instruct it to take any further 
action. Unhappy with this assessment Miss W asked for an ombudsman to review her case. 
She did not provide any specific reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Vanquis has acknowledged its error when it failed to call Miss W back, and credited her 
account with a reasonable compensation payment of £50 for this service failure. It also 
refunded the late fee  which I would not necessarily have instructed it to do given the 
payment was late.
The available evidence shows the reason for the late payment was an error on Miss Ws 
part. When she called on 9 November 2021 she recalled to Vanquis the postcode she had 
used when she posted her cheque  and it was substantially incorrect. So the failing was on 
her part, not the lenders. It follows the missed payment marker is an accurate reflection of 
her account management and I cannot fairly instruct Vanquis to remove it. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman