DRN-3401126
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited failed to protect him from falling victim to a scam 
and then subsequently closed his account. 
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr B includes his representative. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr B opened a bank account with Starling, sending a series of payments to 
a particular payee (who Ill refer to as O). Then in July 2020, Mr B asked Starling to close 
the account. Later that same year, Mr B contacted Starling about the closed account and 
raised a formal complaint about the payments made to O, citing hed been scammed. 
When investigating this, Starling received insufficient information back from Mr B about how 
exactly this happened. It concluded that the transactions were authorised and were not 
suspicious enough to warrant an intervention. Consequently, Starling didnt refund Mr B. 
In July 2021, Mr B opened a second account with Starling. This was permitted given that     
12 months had passed since his last one was closed. On 17 July 2021, Mr B made a 
number of payments to a payee exactly matching Os name, totalling £1,500. 
Like before, Mr B then raised this as fraud. On this occasion, he claimed to have been 
blackmailed by O, receiving threats of violence, along with being told that personal 
information that O had about him would be leaked online. It was the fear of this that Mr B 
says led him to sending the £1,500. Also, Mr B pointed out that he has a medical condition 
that caused him to be more vulnerable to the scam, together with experiencing a particularly 
difficult time mentally when these threats were being received. 
Mr B asked that Starling refund what was sent to O, because he thought the bank ought to 
have recognised something untoward was happening and stepped in to protect him. Mr B 
was also unhappy that Starling took the decision in August 2021 to close the account down. 
Starling disagreed, questioning Mr Bs version of events and highlighting a number of 
inconsistencies. When Mr B referred the matter to this service, one of our investigators 
agreed that Starling could not reasonably be held liable for Mr Bs loss, and that it had 
followed due process in terms of the account closure. He clarified that this complaint only 
concerned the disputed transactions in 2021 (and not the prior payments the year before). 
Because Mr B does not agree, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, I must bear in mind that Mr B has at times changed his story and there 
are some discrepancies with his version of what happened. 
For instance, during a call shared with Starling just after the payments were sent, Mr B says 
he was approached by someone at the weekend; inferring this contact with O happened 
within the past few days. Indeed, when questioned again by bank staff during this same 
conversation, Mr B reiterated that this all started with O approaching him via social media a 
couple of days ago. Yet, we know Mr B had sent an array of payments to a payee with the 
same name over a year prior. Mr B clearly had a longstanding association with this individual 
and later conceded this during call recordings Ive reviewed. 
We also know that Mr B held accounts with other banks and previously used these to send 
money to O. He had multiple ongoing disputes regarding the same alleged scam when 
concurrently raising the matter with Starling. So, it doesnt quite make sense to me why Mr B 
initially stated that he hadnt ever sent money to this individual before. 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I find more likely than not to 
have happened. In this case, for me to accept Mr Bs side of things and uphold the 
complaint, I would need to place considerable evidential weight on his testimony. But in 
fairness, his statement is self-contradictory and conflicts with the available evidence.
With this in mind, I turn to how the Contingent Reimbursement Model (otherwise known as 
the CRM code) applies to the circumstances of this complaint. The starting principle of the 
CRM code is that a bank should reimburse its consumer should the payments in question fall 
under the scope of the code, with exceptions being clearly set out in the eligibility criteria. 
Mr Bs complaint concerns authorised payments made in 2021  so the CRM code needs to 
be considered and he has raised this within his submissions to this office. However, even if 
Mr Bs most recent account of events is to be believed  that all of the payments were made 
as a result of threats against him by O  then such a scenario would not be covered under 
the provisions of the CRM Code regardless. Thats because such circumstances do not fall 
under either definition of an APP scam according to the code: 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
Mr B maintains that he wasnt tricked into sending money to a different person  he knew the 
money was going to O. Hes said the transactions were made through duress, not deception. 
Therefore, the first definition doesnt apply. The second definition also doesnt apply, as 
payments to a blackmailer cant reasonably be described as legitimate. While the actions of 
the blackmailer would clearly be criminal, they cant be described as fraudulent.
Setting aside the CRM code, there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking 
into account the relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or 
noticed that something wasnt right about the circumstances surrounding a transaction. 
That being so, it can be a reasonable expectation for a bank to double-check payment 
instructions that ought reasonably to trigger concerns as to whether they are unusual or 
uncharacteristic for a consumer. 
Having considered the particular circumstances of this case, I find it would not be reasonable 
to expect Starlings systems to have been triggered by these payments. Given that Mr B had 
only opened this new account a few days prior, theres a lack of persuasive evidence that 
these transactions were significantly unusual or uncharacteristic. Naturally, a new account 
will typically create new payees. Whats more, theres a fair argument that the account was 
simply being credited and debited in its first few days  often the nature of a current account.Mr B has submitted that Starling shouldve paid greater attention to his account movements 
in light of his health. Mr B has provided medical evidence to our service. However, as I 
understand it, Starling was not aware of Mr Bs condition, nor his mental wellbeing at the 
material time. To that end, I cannot fairly factor this into the banks decision making. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not satisfied that Starling ought to have stepped in 
or taken further action before these payments were let go. Besides, even if I was of the view 
that Starling ought to have spoken to Mr B before the payments were made, if what Mr B has 
told us is true  that he paid a blackmailer before reporting this alleged crime  it seems 
highly unlikely that the bank wouldve been provided with the true purpose of the payments 
or been able to dissuade him from making them. 
Finally, turning to the concerns Mr B has raised about Starlings decision to close this 
account. As our investigator explained to Mr B, a bank is under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And as long as it provides 
reasonable notice, it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision. Its common 
ground that Starling provided Mr B with due notice; it sent a closure notification letter, in 
keeping with the account agreement. Accordingly, I cant say that Starling has acted unfairly 
in its closure of the account.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman