DRN-4265428
The complaint
Miss P and Mr B complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) claim 
handling and decision not to repair an electrical issue following an accident claim, under Mr 
Bs motor insurance policy.
Ill refer to Mr B in my decision for ease.    
What happened
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided by the repairer RSA appointed. He says that a 
courtesy car wasnt provided initially. And the garage came across as aggressive and 
pushy from the start. Mr B says that after the accident the cars battery and ability to charge 
was affected. He says this damage is related to their accident and should be included in the 
repairs, but RSA says it isnt.
Mr B says he has sought legal advice and its agreed that a four-year-old car is unlikely to 
coincidently develop this issue at the same time as a collision occurred. He says he was 
asked to pay the policy excess up front by the repairer, and it threatened to involve the 
police when he refused to return its courtesy car. Mr B has two small children and says the 
inconvenience of having no transport is considerable. He also says the main dealer that was 
asked to look at the electrical issue, wont release the car as payment hasnt been provided 
for the investigations it completed. 
In its final complaint response RSA says Mr Bs policy allows it to use a garage of its choice, 
with the payment of an additional £200 excess fee. It says there were some initial delays in 
arranging the repairs due to global supply issues affecting spare car parts. RSA says it paid 
£264 as a loss of use payment because there was delay in providing a courtesy car initially. 
But it says there were no unavoidable delays in the repairs. 
RSA says once the bodywork repair was complete Mr Bs car was delivered to a main dealer 
to investigate an issue with a charge point. It says the main dealer confirmed the issue 
wasnt related to the accident. RSA says the car was left at the main dealer as Mr B was in 
discussions about whether the issue would be repaired under warranty, or if the main dealer 
would pay for further investigations. 
As the charge point repairs werent claim related, and the accident repairs were complete, 
RSA says its repairer correctly asked for the return of its courtesy car. It says Mr B had the 
car for four weeks after the repairs were completed, which is why the police were mentioned. 
RSA says some misleading information was provided by its claims team and it didnt always 
call back as arranged. It provided a copy of the main dealers invoice showing the charging 
issue wasnt accident related. But it acknowledged this wasnt sent when originally requested 
by Mr B. RSA offered £200 compensation. 
Mr B didnt agree to this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She says there was evidence from an independent engineer to show 
the battery charging issue wasnt related to the accident. She thought the compensation paid 
for the delayed courtesy car was fair. But says RSA should pay a further £150 compensation 
for service issues throughout the claim. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I think what our investigator suggested is 
appropriate, so I wont be adding to it. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr 
B, but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The claim records show Mr B contacted RSA to make a claim on 3 November 2022. He was 
told its approved garage would contact them within 24 hours. In mid-November Mr B 
contacted RSA to say his car would no longer charge. This meant it had become 
undriveable. The notes say he didnt know if this was related to the accident, but this issue 
was added to claim to be investigated. 
Around a week later the notes show Mr B raised concerns with RSA that the garage had 
requested payment of his policy excess upfront. It was confirmed that this wasnt RSAs 
accepted process, and the garage was informed of this. On 25 November I can see Mr B 
contacted RSA to chase progress. He says the garage was meant to call him but hadnt. He 
also said hed prefer not to use this garage as they had been quite rude and aggressive on 
the first call. The note refers to a loss of use payment for the time Mr B had been without a 
courtesy car whilst waiting for the garage to collect his vehicle. 
A record dated 29 November 2022 confirms Mr Bs car is now onsite with the body shop 
having arrived yesterday. The note says a payment of £12 per day is to be provided for the 
time Mr B was without a courtesy car. This amounted to £264. This equates to 22 days, 
which covers the period from just after the claim was raised until a courtesy car was 
provided. In the circumstances I think this payment was fair. 
The claim records show Mr Bs car was reported as undriveable from 15 November. It took 
around a month for the garage to start work on his car from the time the claim was logged. 
From the records the onus was on Mr B to chase progress. 
There is little information in the claim records between December 2022 and March 2023. 
The notes in March refer to Mr Bs car having been sent to the main dealer to have the 
charging issue investigated. RSAs garage was only tasked with repairing the bodywork to 
the rear passenger door. It took several months to complete this repair, which is longer than 
Id reasonably expect it to. 
In its final complaint response RSA says there were issues obtaining spare car parts, as an 
explanation for the repair delays. Im aware there has been a global issue affecting the 
supply of spare parts. This has had a significant impact on the industry particularly with 
accident repairs. So, I think this does reasonably explain why the body repairs took so long. 
However, I would expect Mr B to be kept regularly updated. I cant see that this was done 
from the evidence Ive seen. Again, the onus appears to have been on Mr B to contact RSA 
and its garage. I dont think this was fair, and RSA should compensate Mr B for the poor 
standard of communication. Ive thought about Mr Bs comments that the charging issue that developed must be related 
to the accident. I think its reasonable that RSA arranged for the main dealer to investigate 
this fault. Ive read the report it provided. This says:
ISSUE WITH BATTERY CHARGING - BEEN ADVISED TO BOOK IN FOR DIAG BY 
INSURANCE COMPANY VEHICLE RECOVERED IN FROM [garage] TO INVESTIGATE 
CHARGING FAULT FOUND DTC 044819 STORED RESSITANCE CHECKS 
DISCONNECTED WIRES.
And:
WIRING HAS BEEN DISCONNECTED REQUIRES FURTEHR DIAGNOSIS TO FIND OUT 
CHARGING FAULT ENGINE REMOVAL MAY BE REQUIRED. THE SHORT IS BETWEEN 
THE CHARGING POINT AND THE PEC UNIT NO PHYSICAL DAMAGE IS EVIDENT 
IMAGES PROVIDED. We do not believe that this could be related to an accident
The claim records show it was confirmed to Mr B on 13 March 2023 that the charging issue 
wasnt thought to be accident related and wouldnt be included in the claim. I can see that Mr 
B asked to see a copy of the report as hed received differing information when speaking to 
the main dealer. In its complaint response RSA acknowledges that this report wasnt 
provided.
I can understand why Mr B thinks the charging issue must be linked to the accident. But both 
the repairing garage and the main dealer have stated it wasnt. Reference is made in the 
notes to the electrical issue being at the front of the car, whereas the accident damage was 
to a rear door. A record dated 11 May says the main dealer had confirmed Mr B had visited 
and been shown that the charging issue couldnt be accident related.
Im not an expert mechanic and must rely on the opinion of those who are. Based on this 
evidence the charging issue with Mr Bs car isnt related to the accident, and so it isnt RSAs 
responsibility to fix. 
I can see that Mr B returned the courtesy car to the repairing garage on 22 March 2022. 
Prior to this he says he was threatened with insurance cover being removed and the police 
being involved. I can understand why Mr B was frustrated with this situation. But the terms of 
his policy provide for a hire car for the duration of the repairs. This means that once it was 
confirmed that the charging issue wasnt part of the claim repairs, there was no requirement 
under the policy to continue providing a hire car. 
That said, I dont think communication was of a good standard here. And Mr B wasnt 
provided with a report from the main dealer to confirm the damage wasnt claim related. 
RSAs notes indicate it thought Mr B shouldve been kept in a hire car until a report was 
provided from the main dealer. But this didnt happen, and it was Mr B who pushed for 
further information to be provided. 
Having considered all of this I dont think RSA treated Mr B unfairly when declining to fix the 
charging issue for the reasons it gave. I think its fair that it paid £264 for the initial period he 
was without a car due to the garages delay in collecting his vehicle. But I dont think RSA 
treated Mr B fairly given the overall standard of customer service he received from it and its 
garage. Its unfortunate that a fault developed with the cars charging point. But I think this 
couldve been handled and communicated more effectively, particularly when Mr B 
requested a copy of the investigation report. 
I cant see that RSA, or its garage kept Mr B reasonably informed of progress between 
December 2022 and March 2023. I have no reason to doubt Mr Bs recollection of his initial discussion with RSAs garage. Clearly, it shouldnt be the case that its agents behave 
inappropriately or that a customer should feel theyve been spoken to rudely. Its also the 
case that Mr B shouldnt have been asked for his policy excess upfront. For these reasons I 
think RSA should pay him compensation. I agree with our investigator that a total of £350 is 
fair here on top of the loss of use payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
should:
pay Mr B a total of £350 compensation on top of its loss of use payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman