DRN-2898302
The complaint
Mr P complains about wait times he experienced when trying to call Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
On 3 January 2021 Mr P says he waited on hold for around three hours before he was able 
to speak with someone at Barclays.
Mr P says that when he tried to raise a complaint Barclays refused to log it. Mr P was 
subsequently able to raise a formal complaint. Barclays issued a final response and 
apologised that Mr P had found cause to complain. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr P 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has told us he waited on hold for around three hours on 3 January 2021. Barclays has 
provided information from its call systems that logged Mr Ps calls on 3 January 2021. It 
indicates Mr P called four times between 13:11 and 15:55. The systems information shows 
Mr P disconnected after two minutes during his first call, 25 minutes for his second call and 
an hour and 15 minutes on his third call. The information shows Mr Ps fourth call was 
answered after a wait of around 20 minutes. 
I agree that Mr P called several times on 3 January 2021 and had to wait on hold before he 
was able to speak with someone. But I think its fair to note he wasnt on hold for the full 
three hour window. 
Barclays has explained that calls were taking longer to answer because of changes to the 
way it works caused by the pandemic. Branches were only open for limited services which 
increased calls to its telephone banking department. And staff were working remotely which 
also impacted call waiting times. I agree Mr P waited much longer than normal and can 
understand why hes upset. But Im satisfied the delays were caused by issues that were 
largely outside of Barclays control. 
Mr P has told us he wasnt able to raise a complaint when he first asked to log one. Barclays 
has explained that it didnt record Mr Ps initial complaint about call wait times as it was an 
issue affecting lots of its customers and was caused by the pandemic which was outside its 
control. I agree with Mr P that Barclays shouldve recorded a complaint when he first asked 
to raise one. Im pleased he was subsequently able to do so and received Barclays final 
response. 
We cant fine or punish a business for making a mistake and I havent found anything that 
shows Mr P was unreasonably impacted by Barclays initial reluctance to record a complaint. 
As Ive said above, he was subsequently able to complain and received a final response, in 
line with the regulations. 
Mr P has told us he wants Barclays to apologise. Barclays final response does offer 
apologies to Mr P and also offers referral rights to this service. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P 
but Im satisfied Barclays dealt with his complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman