DRN-3210808
The complaint
Miss D says Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss D took out a loan over 60 months from Bamboo on 10 September 2018. It was for 
£5,000 and the monthly repayment was £242.95. The total repayable was £14,577.30. I
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Miss D says Bamboo didnt complete good enough checks for a loan with such a high APR. 
The loan has caused her constant money worries and stress.
Our investigator found that Bamboo lent irresponsibly to Miss D. He found the lenders 
checks were not proportionate, and better checks ought to have led to a different
lending decision as Miss D did not have the level of disposable income the lender had 
calculated.
Bamboo rejected this conclusion. In summary, it said:
Miss D was living with her parents so had no rent and most likely made no 
contribution to grocery bills;
even after including the car finance that wasnt on her credit check the loan remained 
affordable;
there were high levels of discretionary spend on Miss Ds bank statement that she 
could control;
using an overdraft was not necessarily an indicator of financial struggles;
the loan was for debt consolidation so could be used to clear her overdraft;
its more recent credit search shows Miss D isnt using most of her available credit; 
and
there is no evidence its loan caused any detriment to Miss D.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Bamboo lent to Miss D required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bamboo had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss D. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Miss D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss D. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ds loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
- did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Miss D before it approved the loan. It
asked about her income and checked this against payslips and her July 2018 bank 
statement. It also checked Miss Ds credit file to understand her current credit commitments 
and credit history. It made some assumptions about her living expenses based on national 
averages. It asked about the purpose of the loan, which was debt consolidation. From these 
checks combined Bamboo concluded Miss D had monthly disposable income of around 
£590 and so could afford the loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan. Bamboo 
needed to be sure Miss D would be able to afford to sustainably make repayments for five 
years. And there was inconsistency in the data it gathered: the credit check showed Miss D 
only had debt of £609 on a mail order account yet she was applying for a £5,000 loan for 
debt consolidation. So I think the lender should have completed a fuller financial review to 
ensure it understood Miss Ds financial situation. 
Bamboo had Miss Ds bank statement for July 2018 so it could have used this to better 
understand her financial position. I have looked at statements from the three months prior to 
her application to get a more representative view. Im not saying Bamboo had to do this but 
its one way it could have better understood Miss Ds finances. And it is a way for me to look 
back and see what Bamboo would most likely have learnt had it completed better checks.From these I can see Miss Ds average monthly salary was £1,025. She spent on average 
£225 a month on groceries, £165 on insurance, £260 on car finance, £65 on telecoms and 
£115 on petrol/travel and £50 on overdraft fees. So even before taking into account any 
other expenditure, that the lender argues is wholly discretionary, it is clear Miss D did not 
have the disposable income Bamboo had assumed and so the loan would not be affordable.
Even if Miss D used the loan to clear her overdraft and so no longer had those fees she 
would only have £195 of disposable income and so could not afford to take on the £242.95 
loan repayment. Bamboo argues its reasonable to assume Miss D would be paying little or 
nothing towards groceries as she was living at home and the £225 spent in supermarkets 
was discretionary. It has not however supplied any evidence to support this assumption. If it 
was deciding to lend on this basis it ought to be able to evidence that it had checked this 
assumption. I think its equally reasonable to assume Miss D paid for grocery expenses - as 
her statements indicate. 
Bamboo says there is no evidence the loan caused any detriment to Miss D. But her 
testimony contradicts this assumption. And whilst she has largely managed to make the 
repayments on time the lender does not know how she has managed to do this so it doesnt 
change my conclusion.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to give the loan to Miss D.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss D says the interest rate on the loan was so high. I accept the interest rate was relatively 
high, but Miss D had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that 
she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. It was clearly set out in the Pre-contract 
credit information and loan agreement that she signed. I havent seen anything which makes 
me think that Bamboo treated Miss D unfairly or breached industry practice regarding 
interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will be refunded as Ive 
concluded this loan shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It seems Bamboo hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Bamboo is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Miss D made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ds loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Ds loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss D.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to the
loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ds complaint. Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman