DRN-2319227
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt automatically replace 
his existing credit card when it expired and that they subsequently closed the credit card 
account he held with them.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known and understood by all parties 
involved and have been clearly documented by our investigator in the series of views he has 
issued and in various email correspondence. As such, I will not repeat the entire sequence 
of events here but will focus instead on the key points which prompted Mr G to raise this 
complaint against NatWest.
Mr G held a UK credit card account with NatWest. Mr G resides overseas and maintained 
the credit card, with a zero balance, to be used by himself during visits and holidays to the 
UK.
However, Mr G had not used the credit card since 2015. This lack of activity prompted 
NatWest to withhold the issuance of a new card to Mr G when his old card expired, and later 
to issue a letter to Mr G advising him that they were withdrawing Mr Gs credit facility and 
closing the account, which they ultimately did.
Mr G was unhappy that NatWest had chosen to take this course of action, so he a raised a 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr G has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I do not respond in similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. Having done so, Im not going 
to require NatWest to do anything further. I know Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, 
so Ill explain why Ive reached it.
Mr G believes NatWest didnt treat him fairly when they took the decision not to issue a 
replacement card to him automatically. He feels the reasons they have given for this are 
flawed and led to the forced closure of his account.
NatWest have explained that it has a policy that if an account hasnt been used, it wont 
automatically issue a replacement card and will close the account unless the customer asks 
for one. It says the policy is based on security concerns and the risk of potential fraud to the 
account. I know Mr G disagrees there are any risks on this account, but ultimately, its for a 
business to decide whether it will offer, or continue to offer, services to a customer, and on 
what terms. 
If a business chooses to withdraw or close an account, what this service would expect is that 
the actions of the business dont result in the customer being treated unfairly or lead to 
customer detriment. Ive thought about what NatWest have said about why they have this 
policy. Having done so, I dont think that its unreasonable for NatWest to have such a policy, 
or inappropriate that they have applied it in this case. The policy appears to be based on 
legitimate and general concerns. The key question is, has the application of this policy led to 
Mr G being treated unfairly.
So, Ive gone on to consider this. I can understand why such a policy might in some instance 
lead to a customer experiencing inconveniences. But thats why NatWest wrote to Mr G in 
early December to tell him what would be happening at the end of the following month. The 
letter alerted him to the fact that his credit facility would be withdrawn, and the account 
closed, unless he took steps to request a replacement card. 
I dont think that NatWests request that Mr G contact them for a replacement card to stop 
that action being taken was unreasonable or particularly onerous in these circumstances. 
The letter gave Mr G plenty of forewarning. Its also notable that because the account was 
maintained with a zero balance there was no underlying issue of how either credit or debit 
funds would be treated at the time that NatWest closed the account. Because of this, its 
difficult for me to conclude that Mr G has been treated unfairly here.
Finally, I have considered what Mr G has stated about regularly monitoring the account, 
which he believes means that the risk of fraud occurring was mitigated, and that NatWests 
monitoring protocols werent fit for purpose in his instance. The implication here appears to 
be that NatWest should acknowledge this and employ an amended monitoring process for 
Mr Gs account specifically. 
Its beyond the remit of this service to ask a business to amend its internal processes, but I 
will note that I wouldnt consider it unreasonable for a business to decline such a request in 
circumstances such as this, and that a business is under no obligation to provide a service 
that deviates from its standard terms.
So, considering all of the above, its difficult for me to conclude that NatWest have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was 
hoping for, but I hope he can understand why I have reached it. It follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman