DRN-3907723
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society refused his instruction to transfer money to
his girlfriends bank account overseas and the service he received from Nationwide
surrounding that request.
What happened
Mr J instructed Nationwide to send £400 to an overseas bank account belonging to his
girlfriend, who is herself an overseas national. Nationwide were concerned that Mr J might
be the unwitting victim of a romance scam, and asked Mr J to provide evidence to confirm
his relationship with his girlfriend and the legitimacy of the transfer request.
Mr J provided evidence to Nationwide as requested, but Nationwide didnt feel this evidence
was sufficient to reasonably confirm that Mr J wasnt being scammed, and so they declined
to complete the transfer. Mr J wasnt happy about this, or with the service hed received from
Nationwide surrounding his request to send the money overseas, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Js complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr J
in how theyd managed the situation and noted their obligations to protect their customers
from potential scams. Mr J wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it had been reasonable for
Nationwide to not complete the transfer because of the concerns they held, and so they
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2023 as follows:
Businesses such as Nationwide have an obligation to protect their account holders 
money, including where they reasonably believe that an account holder may be in the 
process of falling victim to a scam. And, where businesses hold such concerns  as 
Nationwide did in this instance  the obligations inherent upon them, as explained 
above, mean that the business may decline to complete an instructed transfer until 
its evidenced by their customer that the transfer instruction is legitimate and that a 
scam isnt taking place.
In this instance, Mr J asked Nationwide to send £400 to an overseas bank account to 
enable his girlfriend to pay for a travel visa to come and visit him in the UK. This 
request has all the hallmarks of a well know type of scam called a romance scam, 
whereby a person is convinced to send money overseas to a romantic interest, often 
with the promise that the money will be used by the romantic interest to travel to visit 
the person sending the money, but where no such travel occurs and instead the 
romantic interest either disappears or requests more money. And indeed, its notable 
that in this instance that Mr J had already sent money to his girlfriend overseas but 
her initial visa application had been declined and so Mr J was now being asked to 
send additional money.
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Nationwide to hold the concerns 
about Mr Js transfer request that they did, and to require Mr J to validate his 
request before they would consider completing it.
But while Im satisfied Nationwide werent acting unfairly in having the concerns that 
they did, Ive also considered whether Nationwide acted fairly towards Mr J  and 
provided a reasonable standard of service to him  while acting in line with those 
concerns. To that effect Ive considered the sequence of events that took place here. 
And my understanding of those events is as follows:
Mr J made his initial request to send the £400 overseas on 26 October 2021, when 
he visited a Nationwide branch. The branch staff discussed the matter with Mr J while 
he was there, but Mr J left the branch believing that his instruction to send the £400 
would be completed. However, its evident from Nationwides internal notes that the 
branch staff Mr J spoke with had concerns that this might be a romance scam, and 
so they referred the matter to the relevant Nationwide department for their 
consideration. This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that the branch staff did 
anything wrong by holding those concerns of escalating the matter as they did.
A few hours after leaving the Nationwide branch, Mr J received a call from the branch 
hed recently visited advising that Nationwide had concerns about his request and 
that because of these concerns the transfer hadnt been completed and that his 
account was now restricted until these concerns could be addressed.
Following this conversation, Mr J expected to be contacted by the Nationwide 
department that had implemented the block on his account, but no immediate contact 
from that department was received. Mr J therefore went into branch again a few days 
later, on 29 October 2021, and tried to instruct the transfer again, but was told that 
his account was restricted because of potential scam concerns and that the relevant 
Nationwide department would be in touch with him shortly.
But Nationwide didnt contact Mr J to discuss the unblocking of his account in a 
timely manner, and only contacted Mr J on 9 November 2021  two weeks after Mr 
Js account was initially restricted by Nationwide on 26 October 2021.
When Mr J did speak with Nationwide on 9 October 2021, the agent he spoke with 
had the benefit of internally noted instructions which prompted that agent to ask 
certain things. This included a detailed explanation of Mr Js relationship and history 
with his overseas girlfriend, as well as a specific request to ask Mr J to provide a 
photograph of his girlfriend holding her passport, so that it could be confirmed Mr J 
was asking to send money to the correct person.
Mr J then asked his girlfriend to take a photograph as requested and sent it to 
Nationwide. But a later internal Nationwide note states that the evidence Mr J has 
provided  a photo of a woman holding her passport  doesnt prove that Mr J was in 
a relationship with that person and so wasnt deemed sufficient. And this is despite 
Nationwide specifically asking for the photo approximately a week earlier.This wasnt the end of what happened here, but rather than list in detail the events 
that followed, Ill state simply that it's notable that Mr Js account remained blocked 
for several weeks, during which time he had many conversations with Nationwide 
which its obvious Mr J found to be increasingly frustrating. This ultimately led to Mr J 
choosing to end his relationship with Nationwide.
So, while I feel that it was reasonable for Nationwide to have had the concerns they 
did about Mr Js request to transfer money overseas, and that it was fair for them to 
take the initial action in regard to that transfer that they did  including restricting his 
account and requiring further information from Mr J  I dont feel that Nationwide 
acted fairly towards Mr J in regard to how they managed the situation following the 
blocking of his account.
This is because I dont feel that Nationwide showed a reasonable degree of urgency 
in helping Mr J remove the blocks on his account that Nationwide had put in place. 
And I also feel that Nationwide displayed a clear lack of internal coordination as to 
what was required of Mr J to remove those blocks, which unfairly prolonged this 
matter and understandably exacerbated and frustrated Mr J.
Had Nationwide contacted Mr J shortly after placing the block on his account and 
given him a clear understanding of why the block was in place and what was required 
from him to remove that block, then I wouldnt be provisionally upholding this 
complaint in Mr Js favour.
But because Nationwide didnt do as Ive just described and did act in a way which I 
feel unfairly caused Mr J ongoing distress and inconvenience, I will be provisionally 
upholding this complaint in Mr Js favour and instructing Nationwide to make a 
payment of £250 to him, which I feel provides fair compensation for the frustration 
and upset that Mr J has unreasonably incurred here.
Both Mr J and Nationwide have subsequently confirmed that theyre happy to accept the 
findings of my provisional decision. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Js 
favour on the basis Ive described above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this 
complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £250 to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman