DRN-1094857
Complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she applied 
for a Marks & Spencers account in 1996.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) is now responsible for these sales so Ill be referring to it 
throughout my decision. 
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and said the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Mrs E 
disagreed with this and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es mis-sale complaint.
Mrs E says she doesnt remember asking for or agreeing to the PPI. Ive no doubt shes 
provided her best recollection of events, but they are from over 22 years ago. So I can fully 
understand that she may not be able to remember all the details of the sale. 
I say this because Ive been sent a copy of the type of credit agreement Mrs E would have 
signed when she made her application for the card. I can see there was a section about PPI 
on this and I can see within this there was an option for Mrs E to choose whether or not she 
wanted any PPI. 
The box to have the PPI would have needed to be ticked and she would have also entered 
her name and date of birth as the person to be insured, for the PPI to be added to her new 
account. So I think this shows Mrs E wanted to have the cover. If she didnt want the PPI she 
would have been able to leave the box empty. I therefore think this shows its much more 
likely Mrs E would have been aware at the time that she had asked for PPI and didnt need 
to buy it if she didnt want to.
From the documents Ive seen I dont think this was an advised sale. I think the application 
form was filled out and sent off to be processed without Mrs E being given specific financial 
advice. This means Allianzs duty was limited to providing her with enough information for 
her to decide for herself whether or not she wanted this type of cover.
Overall I think Mrs E had enough information on which to make an informed decision. The 
monthly cost of the policy was 65p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and this was 
shown directly beside where Mrs E was asked to make her choice. The form also referred to 
other information about the PPI cover which was attached. I can see some ways in which the form could have been set out in a better way. But I dont 
think this would have changed what Mrs E went on to do. This is because I think the 
evidence shows she wanted this type of protection. She was also eligible for the PPI and I 
dont think that shed have been caught by any of the exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. 
Mrs E told us she already enjoyed sickness protection with her job, implying she didnt really 
need the PPI. I understand the point being made but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean 
the PPI wasnt of use to her. In the event of a successful claim for example, the PPI could 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding card balance for up to 12 months. In my experience 
this compares favourably to other PPI policies available at the time. 
As a non-advised sale the decision about having PPI was for her to make. I cant say why 
Mrs E chose to buy the policy but I do think the evidence shows she was given a choice 
about buying the cover. 
I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint. And I dont direct Allianz 
Insurance Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman