DRN-1232926
The complaint
This complaint is about changes Barclays Bank UK PLC made to Mr Bs packaged bank 
account (PBA) in May 2016. Mr B says he didnt know he was being charged a fee for the 
insurance and other benefits attached to the account. 
What happened
Mr B opened a PBA account with Barclays in 2009. This had a monthly fee. Mr B hasnt 
complained to Barclays about that account, and Im not looking at it here. 
Mr B did complain that, in May 2016, Barclays changed his bank account to one that 
included a Tech Pack which he had to pay a fee for each month. This cost him £9.50 per 
month rather than the £6.50 he was paying before that. At the point of the change in 2016, 
the main benefits were not much different  both included mobile phone insurance and 
gadget insurance. 
Barclays says it had decided to stop providing the previous packaged bank account, and so 
gave Mr B an account that was almost the same. 
Mr B says he only realised about the charges when Barclays sent him a text message about 
them in 2019. 
Our adjudicator said Barclays had told Mr B about the change before it happened, and also 
when it had just happened. It also gave him information about the charges at intervals 
afterwards. Because of this, the adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree, and so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering the sale of packaged bank accounts on our 
website, which everyone can read. Ive kept that approach in mind when considering Mr Bs 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
First, I should say I dont see this as a sale in May 2016 of a new account. It was instead 
an administrative change, which Barclays was entitled to do. It was an increase in costs, but 
it would have been wrong for it to have simply stopped providing the insurance benefits, that 
account holders of the existing PBA were potentially relying on, until the customer confirmed 
they were happy to add the Tech Pack to their account. That would have been worse than 
just putting the costs up and changing some of the details of the benefits.
It did though need to make proper efforts to warn its customers about this change. 
So Ive looked at the correspondence that Barclays says it sent to Mr B in March 2016. That 
letter, just after Dear [Mr B], says:
Your Current Account Plus will soon become a Barclays Bank Account with Tech 
Pack - offering improved core features at an increased monthly price
This was in large letters and in bold. The letter gave details of the benefits the new PBA 
would provide and how much it would cost each month. It also said what Mr B needed to do, 
if he didnt want the Tech Pack benefits  saying to call a particular number, or to come into 
a branch. 
So I think this was enough to warn Mr B of the changes that were due to take place on his 
account and gave him time to decide whether he wanted to continue with the Tech Pack. 
And the letter, sent in May 2016 to confirm the change, said very near the beginning that the 
fee would be £9.50 each month. Barclays also sent annual statements setting out what fees 
had been paid. The monthly fee would also have appeared on Mr Bs bank statements.
Mr B says he has no recollection of receiving these letters. But the letters were sent to the 
address that Barclays held for Mr B at the time. So I think they, or at least one of them, were 
likely to have been received at his address.
So I do think Barclays acted reasonably and gave Mr B enough notice about the changes 
that were due to take place on his PBA.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman