DRN-4008048
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont reimburse refunds processed
through its card machine after a member of Cs staff committed fraud against it.
Mrs E, a director of C, represents C in its complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and was outlined in 
the provisional decision I issued on 3 February 2023. As such, I shall outline the key points. 
C is a small family run business specialising in commercial catering equipment. Barclays
provides C with merchant services. This means it processes card payments made by, and
refunds made to, customers of C. As part of this service, Barclays issued C with a card
machine.
Over a three-year period, an employee of C (who Ill refer to as D) used the card machine
Barclays supplied to C to process refunds totalling over £75,000 for their own benefit. D
made over 300 refunds during this time with the same card details featuring repeatedly.
Mrs E explained D worked in the accounts administration team but carried out these refunds
without Cs knowledge or authority. She said the payments went undetected because D was
associating the refunds to genuine clients in Cs records and processing amounts equal to
the value of products that C sold.
Mrs E discovered the transactions when conducting a review of Cs accounts in August 2018
and immediately contacted Barclays to make them aware of the issue. The matter was also
investigated by the Police. D was prosecuted and found guilty of fraud by false
representation, resulting in a custodial sentence and almost £2,600 being recovered through
a confiscation order. In January 2020 Mrs E complained to Barclays. She felt the bank had
failed in its duty of care to C because it did not pick up and stop these refunds.
Barclays concluded it was not liable to refund C, so Mrs E referred the complaint to this 
service. Our Investigator considered the matter but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. She was not persuaded that Barclays ought to have been concerned about the ebb 
and flow of refunds through the account. She looked at the number of refunds C made 
between November 2014 and August 2018 and didnt think the volume of refunds or the total 
amount of money refunded was suspicious enough to require contact from Barclays. She 
also thought that because of Ds role within the business, they could have concealed any 
attempt Barclays could have made to intervene. She made no comment as to whether the
transactions had been authorised by C.
Mrs E did not accept the Investigators position. She said Barclays systems and algorithms 
should have detected that refunds were being made to a card not previously used for any 
incoming payment and felt that the total number of refunds, as well as their value against Cs 
monthly turnover, ought to have caused concern to Barclays.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred for an Ombudsmans decision. 
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted both sides with further questions. 
I asked Mrs E about Ds role in the business and also asked her about where the card 
machine and its associated equipment, such as the supervisor card, were stored.
Mrs E responded to say that D had never been given permission to process returns and was
not originally set up to do so in Cs accounts software. She said that Ds role had been
purely administrative. Mrs E suspects D accessed the office managers computer and 
changed settings themselves within the accounts system, but she had no idea how D 
obtained the log in details to do this. Mrs E added that D had never had access to any of Cs 
bank information or emails. She said the card machine was in the middle of the office on its 
own desk between the sales and accounts staff as that desk had its own secure phone line 
in order to take payment from customers over the phone. Mrs E was not persuaded by what 
had been said about it being likely that D could have intercepted any potential intervention
from Barclays and concealed it.
I also had further questions for Barclays. I pointed out there were notes in the banks file 
from when it investigated that appeared to broadly recognise that Cs refund volume was 
high and provided the relevant extract. I asked the bank to comment on why it did not detect 
this behaviour looked very unusual at the time. I explained I felt the disputed refunds 
represented a significant departure from the way the account for a business of this nature 
might typically be expected to run.
Barclays responded and provided a copy of the card machines user guide and explained
that all of the disputed refunded were keyed in as cardholder not present transactions and
would have required the use of a supervisor card. It explained that its system does not check 
to ensure that only refunds matching a credit payment are processed and whilst it does have 
system in place to monitor transactions, it would not be able to specifically check low level 
and low value refunds. It explained that it would not be workable in practice to expect a 
merchant acquirer to review all instances of multiple refunds being made to the same card 
details and gave examples of when it is legitimate that multiple refunds could be made to the 
same cardholder over an extended period of time, such as when a cardholder uses the 
same fashion retail stores and returns items.
It said that C ultimately has to bear responsibility for the use of the equipment and who in the
business has access to use it, and highlighted the tools and instructions that were provided
to C to help with reconciliation.
I then issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think Barclays ought to refund the 
disputed transactions. My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, such as the
Payment Services Regulations which apply to the refunds in dispute (the PSRs), the contract
C has entered into, including the terms and conditions of that agreement and the card
machine operating instructions, as well as regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the relevant time. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on
the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have
happened in the light of the evidence.
There is no question that D utilised funds belonging to C for their own personal gain. But that
alone doesnt mean that Barclays must refund some or all of the loss that C has suffered.
There are two main issues that impact whether Barclays has any responsibility for refundingC. The first being whether the refunds were authorised by C and the second being whether
Barclays ought to have intervened to question the refunds debiting the account, and, if it
should have done, whether that intervention would have made a difference to C. Ill address
these matters below.
Were the refunds authorised by C?
As provider of merchant services to C, Barclays was acting as payment service provider.
The disputed refunds were payment transactions carried out through Cs card machine,
which was a payment instrument.
Both the Payment Service Regulations 2009 and Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which
came into force from January 2018 onwards) are relevant to my consideration of this
complaint. For ease, Ill refer to the relevant regulations as the PSRs as both regulations use
similar wording for the key provisions that apply here.
The PSRs provide as follows:
A payer authorises a payment transaction when they consent to that transaction in
line with the form and procedure agreed with the PSP.
If a payer denies having authorised a payment transaction that has taken place, their
PSP must prove the payment was authenticated.
A payment service user to whom a payment instrument (a card machine, in this case)
has been issued must:
o Use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions
governing its issue and use; and
o Take all reasonable steps to keep its personalised security credentials  i.e.
any passcodes and/or any other PINs safe.
Where a payer did not authorise a payment transaction, the PSP must refund the
payer. But the PSP will not be required to do so  and the payer will be liable for all
losses  where the payer has:
o Acted fraudulently; or
o With intent or gross negligence failed to comply with their duty to keep safe
all payment instruments and personalised security credentials or to use the
payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its
issue and use.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,
payment service providers will be liable for unauthorised payments. If C had authorised D to
make payments on its behalf, it would not be fair to ask Barclays to refund them.
Neither party disputes that D followed the steps required to make the refunds using the card
machine that had been issued to C. This means the transactions have been authenticated
using the form and procedure for making a refund as agreed between C and Barclays in the
terms and conditions that C agreed to when it took merchant services from Barclays. But the
use of the card machine and its associated security processes such as the supervisor card
to process the disputed refunds isnt in and of itself necessarily sufficient to prove that C
authorised a payment or failed to keep its details secure.
I also need to consider whether consent has been given by C for D to have authority to debit
its account. The concept of giving consent to a payment is a formal one. If C permitted D to
use its payment tools, so that it looks to Barclays like the payment transaction has been
authorised by C, the payment can be considered authorised for the purposes of the PSRseven if C didnt ask D to make the payments and did not know anything about them. C does
not have to give its express and explicit permission to D making each specific refund. If D
makes the refunds by following steps that they have been given broad permission by C to
undertake, that could result in the transactions that D went on to put through being
technically authorised by C, even if D went further than C anticipated and in circumstances
that had not been discussed. The question I have to decide is whether when D made the
transactions that are in dispute, they should be treated as acting as Cs agent.
When I contacted Mrs E recently, she explained that D had not been given any permission to
use any of Cs payment tools and that doing so was not part of Ds role. She explained that
D inputted invoices from suppliers and only very rarely took phone orders when other
members of staff were busy. She added that D was not given any access to the supervisor
card as part of their duties and suspects that D had stolen information to be able to override
Cs accounting software.
But when Mrs E first made the complaint, in the complaint form she explained:
We had tried to put procedures in place for safe security and when you read [Barclays
employee] letter he mentions that the tool for end of day readings that cross reference for
reconciliation, this was part of [Ds] job so [they] were never going to bring that up
My role is to determine whether Barclays is entitled to hold C responsible for the disputed
refunds, so I have not currently seen any of the paperwork from the court case that stemmed
from these same events. Neither Barclays nor C has provided specific details of the times
each disputed refund was processed, which makes it harder to build a picture of exactly
what was going on.
If D was undertaking daily reconciliation tasks involving the end of day readings, it seems
their role within C was more extensive and had a greater level of autonomy and
responsibility than what Mrs E has most recently described. For D to have been able to
access the card machine so many times across such a long period of time without arousing
any suspicion, I consider that Ds actions when committing fraud against C must have been
very closely aligned to their genuine duties. It does not seem feasible that D would not have
been challenged at any point if they were repeatedly accessing a card machine kept on its
own desk in an open plan office when they had no legitimate business reason to use it. The
large number of refunds made, and the length of time D went undetected, makes it seem
less likely to me that D was accessing the card machine by stealth.
Theres no question in my mind that D abused the trust that was placed in them. But that
does not automatically mean that the transactions are unauthorised. On balance, I think its
more likely than not that D had been given apparent authority to transact because they were
allowed to use and access Cs payment tools. By giving D access to its payment tools for the
purposes of performing their duties, C has effectively put D in the situation where they can
complete the steps required to transact on Cs behalf. But once D was given access in this
way, any transactions D made would be seen by Barclays as being authorised and treated
as legitimate transactions made on Cs behalf. As such, based on the evidence that
I currently have, I can only fairly conclude that the disputed refunds were technically
authorised by C.
Should Barclays have prevented the refunds from being processed?
I have thought about whether Barclays ought to have allowed all of these refunds to be
processed. I consider it good industry practice to say that Barclays has a duty to protect
businesses like C that use its merchant acquiring services against the risk of fraud and
scams so far is reasonably possible. But I am also mindful that Barclays has to balance that
with the requirement to execute payment instructions without undue delay, especiallyconsidering the many millions of card transactions made each day. It would not be possible
or appropriate for Barclays to individually check each one.
Mrs E has raised concerns that Barclays did not notice that the transactions being made
were well out of line with Cs normal trading patterns and also that Barclays failed to spot the
refunds didnt match a sale for the same amount. Shes suggested that Barclays ought to
have contacted C about this and that doing so would have uncovered what was happening.
I do appreciate why Mrs E feels let down. The pattern developing on Cs account does
display risk factors, in particular the amounts being refunded were increasing in value, the
volume of refunds increased in frequency and funds were being refunded back to the same
card numbers repeatedly.
However, I must also be careful not to apply the rules and standards that we might expect of
a merchant acquirer today to the events of this case, which date back well over five years
now. Im also mindful that merchant acquirers are predominately dealing with business
customers and as such, the tools and techniques that the merchant acquirer uses to prevent
fraud are weighted towards identifying transactional risk factors that may alter the original
level of risk that a merchant represented when they were initially onboarded. I consider this
to be a fair approach for a merchant acquirer to take.
In our experience, merchant terminal fraud is relatively uncommon compared to consumer
scams and a merchant acquirer is typically looking for the risk of abuse by a merchant itself
(rather than a rogue employee). I cannot fairly say that a merchant acquirer is subject to
exactly the same expectations to detect and prevent financial harm as a personal customer
might expect from their retail bank or building society.
Looking back on the way Cs account ran, and with the knowledge of how things ultimately
unfolded, it is possible to spot early signals that could be interpreted as indications that
things were not well. But I dont think it would have been immediately apparent to Barclays
that there was something untoward going on.
Whilst I agree Barclays should have identified changes in the way the account was running
as the fraud developed, (especially by late 2017 and into 2018 when approximately £6,000 a
month was being refunded) and that it ought to have done more to intervene to explore what
was happening at that time, I am not currently persuaded that its intervention would have led
to C uncovering what was really going on.
Even if Barclays had contacted C at the point when the potential risk factors in the way Cs
account was running were more prominent and a much clearer change in expected
behaviour given what Barclays knew about C and its trading history in the time that it had
been a customer, I am mindful that D covered her tracks successfully and evaded detection
for a very long time. This fraud against C was perpetuated for a number of years. C had
been through several annual accounting cycles over its duration and nothing concerning had
been identified. I think C ought reasonably to have been aware that the number of refunds it
was processing had increased significantly compared to what it would typically expect to
refund, especially given what Mrs E said about the amount of expected refunds being
minimal, if any at all, across a trading month. The daily reconciliation information and
monthly statements Barclays made available to C was not onerous for it to access. If C had
scrutinised this information with a critical eye, it ought reasonably to have been aware that
something was amiss. By saying this, I have taken into account that businesses do vary in
size and sophistication and that C is a small, family owned operation. But I dont think it is
disproportionate to Cs size to say that the steps it took to monitor its own transaction activity
did not go far enough to meet the terms and conditions of the agreement it had entered into
with Barclays.So whilst I agree that Barclays ought to have done more than it did, I am not persuaded that
its intervention would have led to C uncovering what was really going on. Had Barclays
contacted C to express concern at the volume of refunds being made, it seems more likely
than not that C would have confirmed that it was undertaking reconciliation and that the
refunds were being made to legitimate clients. There would have been no reason to suspect
D or to distrust any information that D may have provided as D had linked the refunds to
genuine records. Im also mindful that C did not do enough to mitigate the risk of loss.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mrs E. This incident and all that has stemmed from it has
been incredibly unpleasant. Not only has C lost a considerable amount of money, she has
been betrayed by someone that trusted and worked closely with. Its callous that anyone
should have to lose out in that way. But I am only able to consider whether Barclays has any
responsibility to refund the loss. For the reasons I have explained, I am not currently
persuaded that I can fairly conclude it does.
Barclays did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs E, on behalf of C, did not accept my provisional decision. In summary, she said:
Wrongful assumptions had been made and it was concerning that Barclays should 
not be held liable at any point when it is very clear this fraud could have been easily 
stopped.
Barclays terms require a refund to be made on the same card that was used for 
original payment, but this term is pointless in practice because Barclays is not 
validating the transactions. She disagreed that the refunds were small and felt it was 
relevant to consider how these transactions were reconciled, and the level at which 
Barclays algorithms work, as very clear patterns were missed. Mrs E explained that 
most of the payments were over £100 and not smaller amounts like £20. She 
suggested that a smart criminal would never make larger amounts because it would 
be detected easily. 
She said it was surmising to say that if Barclays had contacted C, D would have 
concealed it. Mrs E pointed out that because Barclays never actually flagged it at the 
time, we will never know. Mrs E said the moment the refunds were raised with her, D 
was caught and the matter reported, so this opinion couldnt be further from the truth.
D did not have an extensive level of autonomy and responsibility. The end of day 
readings would have been done by the manager and Ds job was to organise the 
receipts and attach the end of day readings together. D never did reconciliation. She 
added that no-one doubted D enough to question her movements around the office, 
she was very confident and trusted and, as such, no-one would have taken any 
particular notice of what she was doing. Mrs E also pointed out that there were only 
two computers that had specific administrative functions access in the office, but 
there were more computers overall. 
Mrs E stressed that D was never given authorisation to issue refunds and was never 
given the supervisor card. Mrs E felt I had surmised and requested proof that this 
was the case. She felt she was being called a liar. 
Mrs E wanted to know what the rules and standards were and how they differ to now. 
She pointed out C has not been supplied with any updated terms and conditions and 
all of the terms and conditions she had been able to find online were from the same 
era. 
Mrs E felt Barclays were hiding behind its terms and conditions when it should have 
flagged and stopped this fraud by enforcing its own obligations under the agreement. 
She pointed out that Barclays had stopped sending statements and that it was unfair 
that merchants were being expected to adhere to the terms and conditions but 
Barclays were not. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still cant fairy instruct Barclays to refund the disputed transactions. I am 
sorry to have to disappoint Mrs E. This is not a conclusion that I have reached lightly, and 
I am mindful of how bearing a loss of this magnitude will impact C. 
Some of Mrs Es points are matters that I have already considered and addressed in my 
provisional findings. Mrs E is concerned that wrongful assumptions have been made. But in 
cases such as this one, where the events complained about took place many years ago and 
where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I must reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. I have thought carefully about what Mrs E has described about Ds role in the 
business and I have no reason to doubt that what she is saying is what she genuinely 
thought and intended for Ds role to be. But I cannot ignore that this fraud took place over 
several annual accounting periods and was not detected by other members of staff involved 
in reconciliation. I think it is more likely than not that Ds role in C was more extensive for D 
to be able to hide in plain sight and access the payment tools they needed to perpetuate this 
fraud without detection for as long as they did. 
Mrs E is concerned that Barclays algorithms did not pick up on anything at the time. Its 
clear from what shes said in response to my provisional decision that she considers 
Barclays has failed C because she considers it could and should have done more. But as 
I explained in my provisional decision, merchant acquirers are predominately dealing with 
commercial customers and as such, the tools and techniques that the merchant acquirer 
uses to prevent fraud are weighted towards identifying transactional risk factors that may 
alter the original level of risk that a merchant represented when they were initially 
onboarded. 
The terms and conditions of merchant acquiring agreements often contain provisions that 
are intended to prompt merchants to put in their own processes and protections at the front 
end, such as terms requiring a refund to be made on the same card that was used for 
original payment. Merchants are required to carry a lot of risk themselves when entering into 
an agreement to be able to accept card payments. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Es point that this 
could not have happened if Barclays were proactively checking refunds were being made to 
the same card that was used for a payment, the obligations placed on the merchant and the 
obligations of the merchant acquirer are not the same. I have to also be mindful that a lot of 
the checks and balances that are required of merchants under the terms and conditions of 
merchant acquiring agreements are intended to support the merchant to identify for itself 
when there has been a potential problem with a card payment. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, merchant acquirers are not subject to exactly the 
same expectations to detect and prevent financial harm as a personal customer might 
expect from their retail bank or building society. It is not unusual for a merchant acquirer to 
place a higher level of responsibility onto a merchant for establishing and applying security 
systems and processes. Mrs E wanted to know what the rules and standards were and how they differ to now. At the 
time the disputed transactions took place, merchant acquirers like Barclays had to bear in 
mind a number of regulatory initiatives, but it is only in more recent times that those systems 
and processes are likely to impact a merchant acquirers relationship with a smaller 
merchant. It is difficult for me to say that Barclays algorithms were not extensive enough 
when balanced with the commercial realities of the merchant acquiring market, of which Cs 
transactions would only form a negligible proportion of. But I dont feel I need to address 
these points in any great detail because, ultimately, the crux of this complaint is whether any 
intervention from Barclays would have made a difference and prevented the loss.
I do accept that there was a marked change to Cs transactional behaviour, and I do agree 
there was a pattern developing that was out of keeping with what Barclays knew about C 
and the nature of its business. But even if Barclays had identified this and contacted C to 
follow up, which could have been with the intention of protecting Barclays from potential 
financial crime rather than C from financial harm, I am not as sure as I would need to be that 
this intervention would have made a difference. 
From what Mrs E has said, D was masterful at covering their tracks. Nothing that Mrs E has 
said in response to my provisional decision has made me think it is more likely than not that 
Ds actions would have been revealed if Barclays had intervened. Mrs E said that when the 
accounts were prepared, D worked it to her advantage and provided any information 
requested. I am mindful that C did not uncover what was happening for quite some time and 
as a result missed opportunities to mitigate its losses. Its also clear that D was trusted within 
C. I still think it is more likely than not that D would have been able to provide explanations 
confidently and convincingly for any questions that may have been asked.
I know this wasnt the answer Mrs E was hoping for. I can appreciate that it must seem 
deeply unfair given what has happened and I do sympathise with all that she has been 
through. But for the reasons I have explained above, along with the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and reproduced above, I am unable to fairly instruct Barclays to refund 
the remainder of Cs loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman