DRN-3769541
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) reduced his overdraft from 
£10,000 to £2,000 and with the service he received from RBS surrounding the reduction.
What happened
Mr A received a letter from RBS which advising him someone would be in touch about his 
overdraft facility, which was due to be renewed. No one from RBS subsequently contacted 
Mr A, and he later discovered that his £10,000 overdraft facility hadnt been renewed. 
Because Mr A was using a significant portion of the overdraft facility, this meant RBS now 
considered him as owing several thousand pounds to them. Mr A contacted RBS about this, 
but RBS wouldnt renew the overdraft facility. Mr A wasnt happy, so he raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Mr As complaint. They confirmed that a review of Mr As financial position 
meant that they were no longer willing to offer Mr A an overdraft facility of £10,000. Mr A 
continued to liaise with RBS about his complaint and felt that RBS werent calling him to 
discuss the ongoing situation with him as theyd said they would. RBS looked at Mr As 
complaint again and apologised for not contacting him as promised. RBS made a payment 
of £150 to Mr A for any trouble or upset incurred and noted that a £2,000 overdraft facility 
had been agreed moving forwards.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that RBS had acted unfairly 
towards Mr A in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr A might have been upset to learn that RBS were no longer willing to 
offer him the £10,000 overdraft facility hed previously held. However, an overdraft facility 
isnt a right that an account holder has. Rather, its at the discretion of the credit provider  
in this case RBS  as to whether theyve willing to continue to offer such a facility.
In their response to Mr As complaint, RBS explained that because of the detrimental effect 
of the Covid-19 pandemic on many of their customers finances, theyd taken the commercial 
decision to undertake affordability reviews before renewing overdraft facilities. This seems 
reasonable to me, and I must note that it would generally be expected that credit providers 
such as RBS would take steps to ensure that their account holders could continue to afford 
any credit facilities that they held.
It also must be noted that RBS did reach out to Mr A well in advance of the overdraft renewal 
date to discuss his financial position with him. This includes a telephone call made by RBS 
to Mr A on 1 July 2021, which Mr A answered but was unwilling to answer the security 
questions need to proceed, as well as two letters sent to Mr A that same month, both of 
which explained that his overdraft facility was due to expire and that it wouldnt be renewed 
without Mr A speaking with RBS about it.
Mr A has complained that RBS didnt contact him as they said they would do in their letters, 
which meant that he didnt have the opportunity to renew his overdraft. But while its correct 
that the second letter did advise Mr A that RBS would call, the first letter specifically asked 
Mr A to contact RBS himself. And both letters included telephone numbers to enable Mr A to 
contact RBS to discuss his overdraft facility with them.
RBS have acknowledged they didnt call Mr A about his overdraft as they should have done, 
and theyve made a payment of £150 to Mr A as compensation for this. Again, this seems 
reasonable to me, and I feel that it does provide Mr A with a fair level of compensation for 
this point. And this especially the case given that I feel if Mr A did want to renew his overdraft 
facility, and he hadnt received a telephone call from RBS as he was expecting, then in all 
reasonableness he could and should have contacted RBS about the matter himself. 
It also must be noted that even if Mr A had spoken with RBS, I feel that RBSs concerns 
about Mr As financial position would in all likelihood still have led to the same significant 
reduction in the overdraft facility being offered to Mr A that subsequently took place.
This is because, ultimately, as explained above, its at RBSs discretion as to whether they 
wanted to continue to offer an overdraft facility to Mr A. And if RBS did have concerns over 
Mr As ongoing ability to afford the overdraft facility he held, then the obligations on RBS as 
a credit provider mean that it wouldnt be expected that RBS would automatically renew that 
facility and allow it to continue without any form of financial review being undertaken. Indeed, 
if RBS did have such concerns, and didnt act upon them in the manner that they have here, 
I would almost certainly consider them as acting irresponsibly by not doing so.
RBS have subsequently offered Mr A an overdraft facility of £2,000. And while I can 
appreciate that this is lower than Mr A would like, I dont feel that I can reasonably censure 
RBS for only offering a credit facility to Mr A thats in line with their own affordability and 
creditworthiness criteria. 
Finally, having reviewed RBSs contact notes with Mr A following the removal of the £10,000 
overdraft facility, I feel that RBS have acted reasonably in regard to how theyve 
administered the balance that they subsequently considered Mr A as owing to them. This 
includes that RBS asked Mr A on several occasions to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment with them so to better understand what he could reasonably afford to repay. 
And again, it must be reiterated that the obligations inherent on credit providers such as RBS 
means that it wouldnt be expected that RBS would accept a monthly repayment offer 
without first confirming the affordability of such an offer in consideration of a clear 
understanding of their account holders financial position. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A in the manner which he contends here, and this includes that I 
feel RBS have communicated their ongoing intentions clearly to Mr A including the level of 
engagement and information that they required from him. And it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman