DRN-3857371
The complaint
Ms D complains about how MBNA Limited dealt with her request for a refund of her 
cancelled flight booking with a third party.
What happened
In May 2022 Ms D tried to buy two return flights, for herself and another passenger, through 
the website of an online travel agency. Unfortunately, the website refreshed during the 
booking process, and as a result of that the number of passengers was reset to one. Ms D 
didnt notice this until after she completed the booking. She paid for the one return flight with 
her MBNA credit card.
When Ms D realised she had only booked one return flight, she tried to amend the booking 
to add another passenger, but this turned out to be impossible. She contacted the travel 
agency by way of an online chat facility. As a result of what she was told, she asked the 
agency to cancel the original booking, and she made a new booking. She expected the cost 
of the cancelled booking to be fully refunded, but she only received a partial refund, which 
was short of the full price by £421:75. When the travel agency and the airline would not 
refund the rest, she asked MBNA.
MBNA raised a chargeback dispute against the travel agency, which defended the dispute. 
In the meantime, MBNA credited £421:75 to her account, but it re-debited this amount when 
the chargeback was unsuccessful. MBNA then considered whether it was liable to Ms D 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, but it decided that it was not.
Ms D then brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. She 
thought that the travel agency had not actually told Ms D to cancel the original booking; only 
that she should make a second booking for the second passenger. For that reason, she 
thought that MBNA had taken the chargeback dispute as far as it could. She also quoted a 
clause from the travel agencys terms and conditions on the subject of refunds, and said that 
the outbound flight was not refundable. She concluded that all the agency was obliged to do 
was to ask the airline for a refund, which it had done. For the same reasons, she thought 
that MBNA had not been required to refund Ms D under section 75.
Ms D insisted that the agency had told her to cancel the original booking; otherwise she 
would have ended up with three tickets. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint, for slightly different reasons to those given 
by my colleague.
I have seen screenshots which Ms D took of her online chat with the travel agency. After she 
had explained the problem, the agency told her: we regret to inform you that we are unable 
to add passenger we kindly request you to rebook again. Ms Ds response was to ask for 
the original booking to be cancelled, which was done.
Although the agency did not specifically tell Ms D to cancel the original booking, I think that 
the use of the word rebook strongly implies that this is what it meant; at best, it was 
ambiguous. If the agency only meant for Ms D to make a separate booking for the second 
passenger alone, rather than making a new booking for two passengers, it could reasonably 
be expected to have checked with her what she was going to do before following her request 
to cancel the original booking. The fact that it promptly cancelled the booking without further 
ado lends some support to the interpretation of its use of the word rebook as meaning 
cancel and rebook from scratch, rather than make a supplementary booking. So I cannot 
agree that the cancellation was entirely Ms Ds unilateral decision. It was the result of advice 
she was given.
However, whether it was the advice the agency really meant to give is not something I need 
to decide. That is because the agencys refund policy was the same whether Ms D cancelled 
the policy on the agencys advice or not. I wont quote it again here, because it has already 
been shown to her. But I am satisfied that the agencys terms and conditions make it clear 
that there will not be a full refund when a booking is cancelled. (The only exception is when a 
booking is cancelled by the airline.)
Firstly, the agency charges its customers a fee for booking a flight. That service is completed 
as soon as the booking is made. The agency keeps this fee even when a flight is cancelled, 
because it isnt a charge for the flight, its a charge for the booking service.
Secondly, there is another charge (called a handling fee) which the agency charges 
whenever a customer asks the agency to cancel a booking. And thirdly, the agencys terms 
and conditions make it clear that each airline will have its own cancellation policy, which may 
include its own handling fee, a cancellation penalty, or sometimes no refund at all.
I havent seen a breakdown of how much of the £421:75 was kept by the airline and how 
much by the agency. But I am satisfied that there was not enough evidence for MBNAs 
chargeback claim to succeed. MBNA did all it could reasonably be expected to do in that 
regard.
Section 75 makes MBNA liable to Ms D for any breach of contract by the travel agency (but 
not by the airline). But I dont think there is enough evidence to show that the travel agency 
breached its contract with Ms D. 
Neither section 75 nor the chargeback scheme make MBNA liable to Ms D for any unclear 
advice given to her by the travel agency which caused her to cancel a booking. I would have 
upheld this complaint if MBNA had given her advice of that kind, but it wouldnt be fair if 
I held MBNA responsible for advice given by a third party, in the absence of a law making it 
responsible for that.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman