DRN-4429492
The complaint
Mr L complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly declined his 
personal accident claim. 
What happened
Mr L holds a disabling injuries protection plan with AIG. It is a type of personal accident 
policy and in April 2022 Mr L made a claim on it. 
Mr L told AIG that in June 2021 sparks from a barbeque went into his left eye causing his 
retina to detach, and hed since gone on to lose sight in it. AIG began to assess that claim 
and requested supporting medical evidence, but it declined it when an independent medical 
examiner found the detachment was more likely because of previous surgery. AIG said the 
circumstances of Mr Ls claim didnt satisfy the relevant policy terms as a result, and it 
maintained that decline when Mr L complained. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but they didnt recommend Mr Ls 
complaint be upheld. They said it was reasonable of AIG to have relied on the opinion of the 
independent medical examiner, and find that the circumstances of the claim didnt satisfy the 
policy terms. 
Mr L disagreed with that opinion and asked for an ombudsman to decide matters. When 
doing so he reiterated the accident at the barbeque was the cause of his sight loss and said 
hed had no vision problems prior to that. He said the previous surgery being referred to had 
taken place a number of years before his accident, and he had a valid claim on a policy hed 
paid into for many years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will not be upholding this complaint and will explain why below. I am 
however very sorry to learn about the loss of Mr Ls sight and the impact he reports it has 
had on him. 
The policy terms
The cover available to Mr L is set out in full in the policys terms and conditions, and I think it 
is worthwhile drawing attention to section two which sets out the scope of insurance:
If you have an accident on or after the effective date and before your insurance finishes, 
which results in you suffering a bodily injury which solely and independently of any other 
cause and within 12 months of the date of the accident, causes death, permanent 
disability or single or multiple fractures, we will pay the amount shown in the table of 
benefits
To section three which sets out the specific meanings given to certain words:
Accident
A sudden, unexpected and specific incident, external to the body, which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place whilst the policy is in force.
Bodily injury
An identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly and 
solely by an accident, is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from sickness or 
disease.
And to section seven which explains how the policy will take existing medical conditions into 
account:
We will only pay for the bodily injury you have suffered if it is directly as a result of the 
accident. Any existing physical impairment or medical condition you have before the 
accident will be taken into consideration in calculating the amount payable based on the 
difference between your physical impairment or medical condition before and after the 
accident. 
We will ask your doctor (if suitably qualified) or the medical consultant that treated you to 
make these assessments (or an independent medical consultant or other suitably qualified 
person if they are unable or unwilling to do so). The assessment will be converted into a 
percentage and applied to the policy benefit payable.
The medical evidence
Both sides are aware of the medical evidence made available to AIG so I wont repeat it all 
here, but I do note:
A claim form signed by Mr L and dated 27 December 2021 where he described that 
on the 12th June 2021 at (address provided) sparks from BBQ went into my eye. 
A completed doctors statement within the same claim form but dated 13 April 2022, 
where the doctor described Mr L as having suffered a blunt injury to the left eye. 
When asked whether in their opinion their patient would be left with a permanent 
disability solely as a result of this accident the doctor had also selected yes. 
An independent medical report dated 17 February 2023 and provided by a 
Consultant Ophthalmologist which explained:
oA virtual assessment had been completed with Mr L. His GP records and both 
of his hospital records had been reviewed and entries concerning his vision 
were noted. In relation to his previous surgery and post-surgery issues in 
2014 - 2015, the following were noted; left cataract surgery, left cataract 
surgery complicated by posterior capsular tear, corneal sutures removed in 
the left eye and a retinal detachment warning given.
oThe Consultant said there was no medical records indicating when or how the 
injury was sustained and found the accident as described by (Mr L) of a 
spark hitting his left eye is not sufficient force to cause a traumatic retinal 
detachment. It is far more likely than not that the detachment occurred due to 
his previous complicated cataract surgery  
oThe Consultant also said that while Mr L has lost 100% of vision on the left 
eye, in my opinion 0% of this is due to the spark going into the eye as 
described by (Mr L)  I feel that the development of the retinal detachment is coincidental with the spark hitting his left eye.
Why Im not upholding this complaint
AIG has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them 
unreasonably. 
I recognise that Mr L strongly disagrees with the findings of the independent medical report, 
but I dont think it was unreasonable of AIG to be persuaded by it and rely on it as a reason 
to decline this claim. 
I say that because the report was completed by a Consultant Ophthalmologist, so in the 
circumstances of the claim someone who appears to have been suitably qualified. It 
considered all of the background medical evidence that had been made available, which 
here was Mr L GP records, his hospital records, and his eye hospital records. It was 
independent, it made clear findings about the sight loss more likely than not being caused by 
previous cataract surgery. And it found that 0% of the sight loss was caused by the spark 
hitting Mr Ls eye. 
I also understand that Mr L feels he has a valid claim and has paid into his policy for many 
years. That Mr L had both an accident and loss of sight in his left eye isnt disputed. But the 
terms and conditions for the specific plan he holds with AIG require him to demonstrate that 
the accident, solely and independently of any other cause, caused the permanent disability. 
And given what I have already set out above I dont think it was unreasonable of AIG to 
conclude that hadnt been demonstrated here. 
AIG has let Mr L know that he can, if he so wishes, obtain a medical report of his own, which 
itd then review in conjunction with the report considered above. Mr L has not provided his 
own medical report for consideration as far as I understand, but nonetheless I think it was 
fair of AIG to explain this remained an option for him. 
Whilst I have much sympathy for the loss of sight Mr L is now learning to live with, in all the 
circumstances I am unable to conclude that AIG declined this claim unreasonably. It reached 
a reasonable conclusion based on the medical evidence made available to it, and it declined 
the claim in line with the terms of this policy. I will not be interfering with its position as a 
result, and I hope Mr L will understand my reasons for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against American International Group 
UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman