DRN-2077160
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) mis-
sold him a motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr R used an online comparison website to find a motor insurance policy. He 
bought an RSA motor insurance policy, but says that when he received the policy 
documents, he noticed that the No Claims Bonus (NCB) protection was excluded. Mr R was 
unhappy with this, so he called RSA and said he needed this to be a part of his policy. He 
said he was willing to pay the extra premium for the NCB to be protected - even though he 
says his understanding was that it should have been included as part of his policy in the first 
place. 
Mr R says RSA told him that he was not eligible for the NCB protection. And he says that at 
first, they tried to indicate that he took out the policy knowing that the NCB protection wasnt 
included, and that he was trying to cause a fuss about it so that it would be added for free. 
Which, he said, is not something he expected to be accused of, as he says that clearly was 
not the case. So, Mr R told RSA that he intended to cancel the policy once he finds another 
one that provided the necessary cover. At which point, he says that RSA informed him that 
he would have to pay a cancellation fee. Mr R was not happy with this as he said it was not 
his fault that he had been mis-sold this policy.
At this point, he says that he was also concerned that in the interim if anything happened his 
NCB would not have been protected. So, he says that he looked at the different online 
comparison sites and bought another RSA policy, but the same thing happened; when he 
received the policy documents the NCB protection was excluded. This time he says he took 
screenshots of the buying processes and went back to RSA to let them know that this 
happened again. While RSA were investigating this, Mr R went on to another online website, 
as he says he still needed a policy that was suitable for him. He, once again, took out an 
RSA policy and the same thing happened again. But for this policy, he entered a start date a 
week ahead. He says he did this so he wouldnt have to burden RSA with another mis-sold 
policy if it needed to be cancelled again. However, when he called the customer service and 
said that he would like to cancel the policy before it had even started. He was told he would 
still be charged the cancellation fee. So, he escalated the matter to more senior personnel 
who agreed to waive the cancellation fee and apply a refund of the premium. 
Eventually Mr R says that he took out a policy with another provider which did suit his needs. 
The other two RSA policies were eventually cancelled, and Mr R was refunded the 
premiums and the cancellation fees were waived. 
RSA wrote to Mr R in April 2019, saying that having reviewed the file and the screenshots Mr 
R sent to them, they could see that although Mr R was ineligible for the NCB protection with 
RSA, online it was showing that the NCB was included. So, RSA apologised for the 
inconvenience caused and paid Mr R £125 compensation, plus provided him with an £8.06 
policy refund. 
 
Mr R was unhappy with the outcome provided by RSA, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld because she believed RSA 
already have done enough to put things right.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr R says that its not unreasonable for him to expect that when he was transferred to RSAs 
website, during the purchasing process, the specific details he provided would have been 
transferred. And, if there were any irregularities or anomalies, in this case regarding his 
eligibility for NCB protection, RSAs system should have alerted him to this at that point. He 
says this clearly did not happen, because if it did, he would not have purchased the policies 
in question. So, he maintains that the three policies were mis-sold to him.
RSA has not provided us with screenshots of what Mr R wouldve seen when he was 
transferred to their website. But in their correspondence with him, they have acknowledged 
that something was not right because even though he was not eligible for the NCB protection 
 online it was showing as being included in the policy. They also allowed all three of the 
policies to be cancelled, and Mr R was provided with refunds of the premiums and 
cancellation fees were waived. So, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome, as this is 
what I would have expected RSA to do considering these circumstances. 
I understand that Mr R feels that RSA have not compensated him enough for the poor 
experience he had. He has explained in detail the inconvenience he has experienced when 
dealing with this matter. And he says it took a fair amount of reasoning and persuasion on 
his part for RSA to allow him to cancel the policies without any cancellation charges. So, I 
have taken all of this into consideration. I can see that RSA apologised and paid Mr R £125 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. Based on the circumstances of this complaint, I 
believe this is reasonable, as it provides a fair level of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr R has experienced.  
Mr R has also mentioned that for a certain amount of time he wasnt fully covered which left 
him exposed. But Mr R has not suffered a loss because of this. Thus, I cannot comment and take into consideration what might have happened, as we consider each complaint on its 
own merits and based on its own specific set of circumstances. 
While I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R, taking all the 
available evidence into consideration, Im not asking RSA to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman