DRN-4247452
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse him money that he lost to an 
investment scam.
Mr Ss complaint is brought to this service by his appointed representative. However, for 
ease of reference, I will refer solely to Mr S throughout this letter.
What happened
In 2017, Mr S paid £5,000 from his Santander account to what he believed was a legitimate 
investment. In 2021, Mr S became aware that the supposed investment was a scam and that 
his money was unrecoverable. Mr S wasnt happy about this and felt Santander should have 
done more to warn him at the time he made the payment that it might be a scam. So, he 
raised a complaint.
Santander responded to Mr S but didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by following his instructions 
to pay the £5,000 to his intended recipient in 2017. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Santanders 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that if Santander had intervened 
before allowing the £5,000 payment to complete in 2017, and had questioned Mr S about his 
intended investment, that because there was no reasonable indication that the supposed 
investment was a scam at that time that Mr S would most likely still have made the payment. 
Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because they felt that any 
intervention Santander might have made wouldnt have prevented what happened. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr S has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr S for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr S notes that I havent addressed a specific point he raised, it shouldnt 
be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all the submissions provided by both Mr S and Santander. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
In their response to Mr Ss complaint, Santander explained that they were sorry to learn that 
Mr S had been the victim of a scam. However, in their correspondence with this service, 
Santander have questioned whether Mr S was the victim of a scam or whether it should be 
considered that he simply made a bad investment. 
This service takes a linear approach when considering complaints about purported scams. 
And the first step in this approach is to decide whether a scam can be said to have taken 
place or not. 
In this instance, I havent been able to safely conclude whether Mr S was the victim of a 
scam here or not. Importantly though, while I dont feel that I can say for certain that Mr S 
was scammed, if I had concluded that a scam had taken place  and so moved on to the 
next steps of this services approach  I wouldnt have found that Santander should be held 
accountable for Mr Ss loss here. And Ill explain why this is the case. 
After accepting that a scam has taken place, this service then moves to consider whether 
the business being complained about should have recognised that the payment being made 
was unusual and out of character with how their account holder had recently maintained 
their account. And, if it is felt that the payment should have been recognised as unusual, it 
would generally be expected that the business would have intervened and contacted their 
account holder before potentially processing that payment and allowing it to complete.
In this instance, I do feel that Santander should have recognised that the £5,000 payment 
that Mr S instructed was unusual and out of character with how hed recently maintained his 
account. This is because, in the twelve months preceding the payment, Mr S hadnt made 
any payments of a similar size to a new or third-party recipient  the only exception being 
another payment of £5,000 made by Mr S a few days before the payment under 
consideration here, but which I dont feel establishes any normal activity or should mean 
that the slightly later £5,000 payment shouldnt have been flagged by Santander. 
As such, given that I feel that Santander should have recognised that the £5,000 payment 
instructed by Mr S was unusual, it follows that I feel that Santander should have intervened 
and contacted Mr S before allowing that payment to complete. But importantly, I also feel 
that had Santander done so, then Mr S would most likely have been able to answer the 
questions Santander may have asked of him about the payment and that he would have 
confirmed to Santander that he still wanted the £5,000 payment to be made. 
It must be recognised at this point that, in broad terms, when an account holder instructs a 
payment from their account, the starting point in law is that a business is expected to 
process the payment that its customer has authorised - in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their customers account.
Additionally, if a business does intervene before allowing an instructed payment to complete, 
it isnt the case that the business should advise its account holder to cancel that payment. 
Rather, the business is expected to ask questions of the customer to check that the 
customer understands the nature of the payment that theyve instructed and is aware of 
potential scams and the possibility that they might be being scammed. In this instance, I dont feel that any intervention that Santander may have made in 2017 
would have led Mr S to cancel the £5,000 payment to the scammer. And this is because 
there was no indication at that time that the investment Mr S was making could be a scam. 
Instead, at that time, Mr S appeared to be making a payment to a legitimate investment. And 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Mr S to have believed in 2017 that he was making a 
legitimate investment and that he wasnt being scammed. 
Because of this, I feel its highly likely that Mr S would have been able to explain to 
Santander that the instructed payment was for a legitimate investment and that he was 
confident that he wasnt being scammed and that he would have told Santander to process 
that payment as per his instruction. And it must be noted that Mr S didnt become realise that 
something had gone wrong until 2021  several years after he instructed the £5,000 
payment from his Santander account.
This isnt to say that Mr S hasnt been the victim of a scam here, and if he has been then I 
hope he can recover his money from those responsible for his loss. But it is to say that I 
dont feel that Santander should fairly be considered accountable for his loss or instructed to 
reimburse him his £5,000 as he would like. And this is because I dont feel that any 
reasonable scenario can be hypothesised whereby Mr S wouldnt have made the £5,000 
payment in 2017, based on his knowledge and understanding at that time, even if Santander 
had intervened and questioned him about the payment before allowing it to complete. 
 
In short, I dont feel that theres any action that Santander could or should have taken here 
that would in all likelihood have resulted in Mr S not making the £5,000 payment in 2017. 
And because I dont feel that Santander could reasonably have acted such that Mr S didnt 
make the £5,000 payment, I dont feel they should be considered accountable for Mr S 
making that payment of for the loss he subsequently incurred.   
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take 
any further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but I hope 
hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision here that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman