DRN-1601843
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000 through an internet application. Miss W says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) 
mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think Capital One made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI, and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this because 
weve looked in detail at Capitals Ones processes from that time and how it generally sold 
these policies over the internet. And we know from what weve seen that the online 
application required the consumer to either say that they wanted  or didnt want  any PPI, 
before they could go to the next stage of the application. Using this I think Miss W would 
have been able to see she had a choice. I also think its more likely Miss W properly 
consented to the PPI by selecting the yes, rather than the no box, during the online 
application process. 
Capital One also sent us copies of Miss Ws monthly credit card statements. These show 
that she was being regularly charged for PPI and it was described as Payment Protection 
Ins on the statements. I think if shed never asked for the PPI, she would have wanted to 
know what these charges were for. I think all these things point to Miss W agreeing to the 
cover and to being aware it had been set up for her on her credit card account.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss W got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Miss W has said she would have received at least six months sick pay from her employer at 
the time if she was too ill to work. But this policy would cover 10% of the outstanding balance 
of her account for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work or she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any other pay she would receive. So I 
still think the PPI would have been useful.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said but these points dont change my decision.
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman