DRN-3152899
The complaint
J complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) didnt accept a promissory 
note he sent it.
What happened
J took out a loan with Provident in November 2020. Shortly afterwards, J sent Provident a 
promissory note. The note showed that J promised to pay £338.60 towards the balance of 
the loan. J also gave Provident 14 days to respond, otherwise he would assume its 
acceptance of the note as payment.
Provident didnt accept the promissory note as payment. Unhappy with matters, J 
complained. Provident reviewed things but didnt think it had treated J unfairly. It explained 
that a promissory note wasnt a form of legal tender, and therefore not an acceptable form of 
payment in line with the terms of the agreement. 
It did, however, reference that J said hed been told by an adviser that a weeks worth of 
payments would be waived during a call. So, it said it would reduce the balance owing on the 
account by £10.80 in light of this. J remained unhappy with Providents response and 
reiterated it hadnt responded to him within 14 days. He brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think Js complaint should be upheld. 
He explained that a promissory note was just a promise to pay a sum of money at an 
unspecified date. He acknowledged that whilst Provident didnt respond to J within 14 days, 
it also didnt agree to accept the note as payment either.
Provident didnt dispute our investigators findings, but J did, and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J feels strongly about the promissory note and has said Provident should accept it in line 
with the Bills of Exchange Act 1882. Ive taken this into consideration, as well as Js other 
reasoning about why the note should be accepted. However, I dont agree that Provident is 
under any obligation to accept Js promissory note. Ill explain my reasons why.
As our investigator explained, the promissory note J provided isnt actually money. Its a 
promise to pay a sum of money at some point in the future. Provident doesnt have to accept 
this as a form of payment, over any binding agreement it holds with J already. Indeed, its 
explained that the note isnt an acceptable form of payment in line with the terms of the 
agreement, which J signed at the point the loan was given to him.
J said Provident didnt respond to the note within the 14 days specified, therefore he 
considers that Provident accepted the note. But Im afraid I dont agree with J here. I dont 
think the fact that Provident didnt respond within 14 days means it accepted the note. 
Provident explained it was still reviewing matters during that period. And, it has since clearly 
explained it doesnt accept the note as a form of payment and its reasons why. 
I know J feels strongly about this complaint. However, for the reasons outlined above, I dont 
think Provident has treated him unfairly by not accepting the note. And, as I understand it, it 
has clearly explained alternative methods of payment towards his loan which it will accept. In 
doing so, I think it has treated J fairly and it follows that I wont be upholding Js complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman