DRN-3513154
The complaint
Mr W complains that the poor service provided to him by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP), when acting as his financial advisers, meant he lost the opportunity 
to maximise the tax relief available to him on his pension contributions.
What happened
Mr W has, since approximately 1998, been a client of SJP. In 2012 his SJP adviser changed 
to a new partner, who Ill refer to as X.
On 12 November 2012 a financial review meeting occurred between Mr W and X. Mr Ws 
personal and financial circumstances were recorded. The meeting focussed on his 
retirement planning and the following was recorded as his objectives:
[Mr W] has recently changed jobs and is looking to make pension contributions - his 
overall objectives at this time are:
He intends to retire on as much income as possible at age 65
He does not have a target income in mind for retirement but wishes to achieve the 
best possible growth on his pension funds between now and then
He is hoping to achieve the best possible growth between now and selected 
retirement age and believes the St. Jamess Place approach is best placed to help to 
potentially achieve this objective - he is particularly attracted to the Investment 
Committee and external fund manager monitoring offered through our external 
experts, [redacted], which he feels adds value in achieving this objective
The level of charges applied to his pension fund is not a prime concern
He wishes (to) consolidate the majority of [his] pre-retirement pension provision 
within St. Jamess Place
Finally, he is keen to receive regular face-to-face advice and reviews as and when 
required from his chosen pension provider. 
Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as Medium and it was noted that he wished his 
pension to be based on contributions.
Following this meeting X wrote to Mr W on 14 February 2013 with his formal pension 
planning recommendations. In summary this recommended Mr W make monthly 
contributions of £250 (gross) to his SJP Retirement Plan and for his employer to make 
contributions of £312.50 (gross). 
X remained Mr Ws adviser until 2020, when Mr W asked for the management of his SJP 
affairs to be transferred to another SJP adviser. As a result of a review and discussions with 
his new adviser Mr W thought the service hed been provided by X wasnt good enough. So 
he complained to SJP in November 2020. He thought, in summary:
the lack of advice given to him by X over the course of their relationship had placed 
him at a significant tax disadvantage
Had X carried out the appropriate reviews this would have enabled him to obtain 
some sizeable tax relief
The additional monies, had they been available and placed in his pension fund, 
wouldve benefitted from investment growth in line with the plan.
SJP responded to his complaint in May 2021. It offered Mr W £500 compensation as its 
investigation into his complaint had taken too long. But it said it didnt uphold the complaint 
as it was satisfied that X had tried to arrange review meetings with Mr W on a number of 
occasions, both in writing and on the telephone, but these were declined. SJP said it 
understood the that Mr W wished, with hindsight, hed taken alternative action earlier, but 
that didnt mean X didnt offer the opportunity to do so.
Mr W didnt agree and asked SJP to review its outcome. He asked for SJPs records of 
contact between himself and X over the course of their relationship.
SJP provided Mr W the details of Xs contact notes, but it maintained its position that X 
wouldve been happy to provide Mr W with advice on further investment into his retirement 
account had a definitive request to do so been forthcoming.
As Mr W wasnt happy with its response, he referred the complaint to our service.
But our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought that X had 
attempted to arrange reviews in-line with the expectations set out in the November 2012 
meeting and the key facts document setting out the details of the ongoing professional 
relationship. And he thought the £500 SJP had offered Mr W for the delays in answering his 
complaint was reasonable.
But Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view. He thought that the records of the contact 
between himself and X were inaccurate, and gave numerous examples of emails and calls 
which hadnt been logged. This, he thought, called into question the integrity of the evidence 
our investigator had relied upon. Mr W also did not agree that hed received invitations by 
post to have financial reviews in 2014 and 2015. And he didnt think the limited reviews he 
had received, with the only written record being in 2013, supported that this set out the basis 
of the ongoing relationship between himself and X. He thought X needed to continually ask 
about his changing circumstances along with his tax implications.
But this didnt change the opinion of the investigator, so as no agreement could be reached 
the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to address the £500 compensation that has been offered by SJP for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr W by the length of time it took to investigate his complaint. Complaint handling, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, is not a regulated 
activity. So it falls outside of my powers to rule on how SJP has handled their complaints 
procedure, or to require it to pay compensation, if it hasnt already done so, for the delays in 
its issuing its final response. 
Turning to the merits of Mr Ws complaint, and having considered all the evidence, I agree 
with the findings of the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr W doesnt believe X, when acting as his financial adviser 
on behalf of SJP, gave him sufficient advice over the course of their business relationship, to 
take advantage of the tax relief he couldve obtained by increasing his pension contributions.
I can see Mr W and X met at the end of 2012. This meeting is documented and shows that 
Mr W wanted retirement planning advice. His financial objectives were recorded and are as 
shown in the background section of this decision.
A formal documented recommendation, resulting from this meeting, was made to Mr W in 
early 2013. One section of this recommendation that I consider significant, when taking into 
account the nature of Mr Ws complaint, is found under the heading Your Pension 
Contributions. It says the following (my emphasis):
You did not wish to fund for a specific target income but preferred to make 
contributions that you consider to be affordable. The maximum personal 
contributions that can be made into pensions in order for you to obtain tax relief is the 
greater of your relevant UK earnings and £3,600 subject to the Annual Allowance of 
£50,000.
As a general principle, I strongly recommend that you should maximise your 
pension contributions each year to the highest possible level that will remain 
eligible for tax relief. It is however important to ensure your benefits do not exceed 
the Lifetime Allowance when you come to retire. The Lifetime Allowance is £1.5m 
from April 2012. I explained that we should therefore review your funding levels 
on an ongoing basis to increase your contributions in the future when 
affordable.
The first highlighted section shows that the level of pension contributions were most likely 
discussed with Mr W, as it is documented that he preferred to make contributions that he 
considered to be affordable. And it was decided that he would make monthly gross 
contributions of £250 (which under the tax rules at the time meant he only had to contribute 
£200 per month).
Taking the second highlighted section, I can see that X was cognisant of the tax benefits of 
maximising the pension contributions that Mr W made, and explained this to him. So Im 
satisfied that Mr W was most likely aware from receiving this document, of the benefit in him 
making the maximum possible pension contributions. 
And the third highlighted section leads me to believe that Mr W knew that his contributions 
needed to be reviewed and increased when it was affordable to him to do so.
So Im satisfied, that at the time of the recommendation in February 2013, Mr W was aware 
of the tax benefits he could achieve through his pension contributions, and he had decided 
to make the maximum contributions that he could afford at the time. But Im also satisfied 
that he was aware that should he be able to afford it, it was recommended that he increase 
these contributions as much as possible. But despite Mr W being aware of the need to maximise his contributions, X, on behalf of SJP 
had a responsibility to provide the service that had been agreed upon. And to see what this 
agreed level of service probably was, Ive considered the key facts document which was 
provided to Mr W with the financial review in November 2012. This states the following:
We will also provide you with ongoing advice to review your investment and ongoing 
contribution levels, if applicable, to ensure it remains appropriate as set out in the 
Welcome to St. Jamess Place brochure provided by your Partner.
And X spelled out what he would do on an ongoing basis:
I strongly recommend that we conduct a review of your circumstances at regular 
intervals. I will write to you each year on the anniversary of your plan to provide you 
with an annual statement in respect of your funds so that we can arrange for a 
review.
So Im satisfied that Mr W most likely knew that X, on behalf of SJP, would offer at least 
annual financial reviews to consider his investments, and importantly in relation to this 
complaint, his contribution levels.
SJP has provided a copy of the client contact record, detailing the times X spoke to or tried 
to speak to Mr W, or wrote/emailed Mr W between January 2013 and March 2020. Mr W has 
been provided with both an abridged and full version of this document, so I dont propose to 
duplicate it here. But having considered it closely I can see that it shows that X offered Mr W 
a financial review at least once every year. 
Now I am aware that Mr W disputes the accuracy of this document, and both denies being 
offered some of the reviews and asserts at times he actually asked for advice around making 
additional investments, and this advice was not forthcoming. And to support this view he has 
provided evidence of additional emails he sent and received, and his memory of events 
which arent included in the document. 
Whilst considering everything that has been said, I need to focus on the crux of Mr Ws 
complaint. Im not going to comment on the quality of the service X provided, nor am I going 
to compare what X provided and what Mr W has experienced with his new adviser. Im 
focussing on whether the service provided by X was sufficient to meet Mr Ws retirement 
planning objectives. 
But I can only decide what likely happened based on the evidence that has been provided. 
In cases such as this, where there is a dispute, either over recollections of events or the 
veracity of documents, I need to decide, on the balance of probability, what I think is most 
likely to have occurred. And when considering whether the annual reviews were offered by 
X, I find the contact notes provided by SJP to be the most persuasive. These show that 
reviews were offered at least once a year, and the majority of these were either declined or 
not responded to by Mr W. So Im satisfied that on balance, X, on behalf of SJP, provided a 
sufficient service. 
And given that Im satisfied that he knew of the benefit to him personally in maximising his 
pension contributions, I think it more likely than not that had Mr W wished to do so, he would 
have accepted an annual review, or been more proactive in arranging one. So it follows that 
Im satisfied that it would not be fair or reasonable to hold SJP responsible for any lost 
opportunity for Mr W to benefit from the additional tax relief he could have achieved. My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman