DRN-1645227
The complaint
Miss L complains on behalf of a company. Ill call that company S, and throughout this 
decision will refer to Miss Ls submissions as being made by S directly. 
S complain that Health and Protection Solutions Limited (HPS Limited) made errors when 
arranging its group private medical insurance. 
What happened
In 2015, S instructed HPS Limited to transfer its private medical insurance policy over to a 
new provider. Ill call that new provider insurer A. As part of the transfer, S asked for one of 
its members pre-existing medical conditions (PEMC) to be included in the cover. And at a 
later date, S asked for HPS Limited to enrol a dependant onto the policy too. HPS Limited 
told S that both requests had been completed. 
In 2018, S transferred its cover to a different provider. Ill call that provider insurer B. 
HPS Limited was not involved in the transfer to insurer B. But S had concerns about the 
cover that insurer B was providing it with; because insurer B had excluded the members 
PEMC and considered a condition that the dependant had as pre-existing too. And found out 
that the PEMC had previously been excluded with insurer A and the dependant had never 
been enrolled onto insurer As policy either. So S complained to HPS Limited, and said its 
errors had caused S problems with insurer B.
HPS Limited looked at what had happened, but said it didnt know the PEMC had been 
excluded when it arranged the policy. HPS Limited said insurer A had since advised the 
exclusion wouldnt have been disclosed to HPS Limited at the time  rather, it would have 
been listed it on the policy documents that insurer A would have sent to S directly. But 
HSP apologised for what had happened. And it liaised with insurer A, which agreed to 
retrospectively remove the exclusion from Ss previous policy as a gesture of goodwill.
HSP Limited also said itd asked insurer A about enrolling the dependant at the time, but 
said as insurer A had advised there were no additional costs involved in doing that, 
HSP Limited had taken that to mean the dependant was successfully enrolled. HSP Limited 
said it was aware that the dependant had since gone on to be insured with insurer B. But it 
apologised to S for the miscommunication surrounding the enrolment and offered it £200 to 
recognise that.
However, S remained unhappy about what HSP Limited had done and the cover that 
insurer B was now providing it with. So S approached this service and one of our 
investigators looked at what had happened.
Our investigator explained that he could investigate HPS Limiteds actions in relation to the 
arrangement of insurer As policy. But he said hed need to consider insurer Bs cover under 
a separate complaint, and explained that was because; HSP Limited hadnt been involved in 
the sale of insurer Bs policy; all insurers had different approaches to PEMCs, and there was 
no guarantee that insurer B would have provided what insurer A had provided, and; 
insurer Bs decisions about the cover it was prepared to offer S would have been led by its 
own policy terms and underwriting. 
In relation to this complaint, our investigator explained why he thought HSP Limited had 
acted fairly. And in summary, he said:
HPS Limited had apologised for what had happened, had worked with insurer A to 
get the PEMC exclusion removed, and had offered S £200 compensation. 
The dependent hadnt claimed, or attempted to claim, on insurer As policy. So he 
couldnt fairly conclude that HSP Limiteds actions had impacted the dependent in 
relation to insurer A. 
He couldnt comment on whether the issues surrounding the PEMC or the enrolment 
had been detrimental to insurer Bs cover within this complaint  because insurer B 
would have made its own decisions about what risks it was or was not prepared to 
cover.
S disagreed and reiterated its concerns about HSP Limiteds actions. In summary, S said 
that insurer B was refusing to remove the PEMC exclusion despite insurer A having 
retrospectively removed it. S said insurer B was treating a condition that the dependent had 
as pre-existing, and that was because the dependent wasnt originally covered by insurer A. 
And S also said it was concerned that itd paid more to enroll the dependent onto insurer As 
policy. 
Our investigator reminded S that he wasnt commenting on insurer Bs actions or decisions 
within this complaint. But said he would consider insurer B under a separate complaint, and 
that could include considerations about whether HSP Limited had any impact on insurer Bs 
policy. 
In relation to this complaint though, our investigator said the available evidence suggested 
that insurer A hadnt charged S additional costs to enroll a dependent. But S remained 
unhappy and so, as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If or when things go wrong, businesses are expected to look at whats happened and, where 
appropriate to do so, take steps to put things right. 
Ive thought about what HPS Limited did when it realised what had happened with Ss policy. 
And having done so, I am of the opinion that the steps it took were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So I wont be upholding Ss complaint and will explain why.
The excluded PEMC
Both S and HPS Limited were of the impression that the PEMC was included within 
insurer As policy. However, both sides have since learnt that insurer A only 
disclosed the excluded PEMC to S, not to HSP Limited. And S has acknowledged 
that it could have checked the policy documents that insurer A had sent to it directly. When HPS Limited learned about the exclusion, it contacted insurer A and worked 
with it to get the exclusion retrospectively removed. I understand that insurer A has 
said it only removed the PEMC exclusion as a gesture of goodwill, because it felt it 
could have communicated differently with HPS Limited at the time of the 
arrangement. But I am persuaded that the steps HSP Limited took in response to the 
excluded PEMC did, retrospectively, give S the cover that S originally thought it had.
I recognise that S suffered a loss of expectation when it realised what had happened 
with insurer As policy. That must have been frustrating, and Ss frustration must 
have continued whilst it waited to see if the exclusion would be removed. But I cant 
see that S was unfairly penalised or prejudiced because of the issue surrounding the 
excluded PEMC. And I say this because the available evidence in this complaint 
suggests that S made no claim in relation to it under insurer As policy. 
I appreciate that, despite insurer A retrospectively removing the exclusion as a 
gesture of goodwill, S remains unhappy about insurer Bs decision to maintain the 
exclusion. But as our investigator explained, that matter is not something that is 
being considered within this complaint. And so, it is not something that I will be 
commenting on here. 
The dependent
HPS Limited accept that it made an error in failing to enroll the dependent onto Ss 
policy. But again, S has also acknowledged that it too should have looked at the 
policy documents insurer A sent to it directly.
 
Insurer A has confirmed that there would have been no additional charge to add a 
dependent. And the available evidence in this case suggests that S wasnt charged 
anymore at the point it thought the dependent had been enrolled.  
No claim was ever made or attempted for the dependent on insurer As policy. So the 
dependents position with insurer A wasnt prejudiced because of HPS Limiteds 
miscommunication about the enrollment. 
HPS Limited apologised for what had happened and offered S £200 compensation. 
At the time of bringing its complaint to this service, S told our investigator that it had 
yet to receive the compensation. I understand that our investigator has since followed 
this up, but for the avoidance of doubt, I would have expected HPS Limited to have 
paid that compensation by now. 
I appreciate the concerns that S has about the cover that the dependent now has 
with insurer B. But again, this complaint is only looking at the actions of HPS Limited 
in relation to Ss policy with insurer A. Ss concerns about the policy it now has with 
insurer B will be considered under a separate complaint, and so is not something I 
will comment on here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman