DRN-4214829
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to manage the investment 
of his pension savings in an effective manner. And he further complains that Aviva failed to 
act on the written instruction he gave in July 2021 to close his pension plan.
What happened
Mr T holds pension savings with Aviva. His pension savings originated from an arrangement 
set up by a former employer. At its inception, the savings in Mr Ts pension plan were 
invested in a lifestyle arrangement. That arrangement was designed to reduce the risk and 
volatility of Mr Ts pension investments as he approached his retirement date.
Mr Ts pension plan was set up with a retirement date of his 65th birthday, in June 2015. 
Around that time he wrote to Aviva to defer his retirement date by a year. Aviva confirmed 
Mr Ts request, and says it made him aware that the lifestyling approach on his pension 
investments had ended. It says it told him that, from that time, his pension investments 
would be held in two of its available funds - a deposit fund, and a long gilt fund. It suggested 
that Mr T might want to consider his investment choices given the change in his retirement 
date.
The following year, Mr T reached the revised retirement date. But he didnt give any further 
instructions to Aviva. So, in line with its normal approach, Aviva wrote to Mr T to tell him that 
it had extended the retirement date on his plan by a further five years. But it reassured him 
that he could take his pension benefits at any time since he had passed his 55th birthday.
In 2021 Mr T complained to Aviva about a fall in the value of his pension investments. 
Although that complaint isnt what I am dealing with here, the outcome of it led to a new 
complaint from Mr T. Shortly after making the first complaint Aviva wrote to Mr T to tell him 
that it had further extended his retirement date to June 2025  when he reached 75 years of 
age. But it again reminded him that he could take his pension benefits at any time, although 
no further extensions of his retirement date could be made past his 75th birthday.
In response to the 2021 complaint Aviva explained to Mr T how his pension savings were 
invested, and how that had impacted their value. Unhappy with that response Mr T wrote to 
Aviva asking it to Please advise what information you require from myself to progress the 
closure of my account. Following that letter, Aviva arranged for Mr T to speak with one of its 
advisors to start what it calls his retirement journey  that would have allowed him to 
withdraw his pension savings. Aviva says that it gave Mr T some information on the call and 
he ended the conversation in order to make some further enquiries about how any 
withdrawal would be taxed. Aviva says that it heard nothing further around that time from 
Mr T about restarting the retirement process.
The complaint I am dealing with here was made by Mr T to Aviva in June 2022. He 
complained that Aviva had failed to act on his written request from the previous year to close 
his pension account. And he said that the value of his pension savings had fallen still further 
due to Avivas failure to manage his pension plan in a professional manner.
Aviva said that it thought it could have better communicated with Mr T in September 2021 
when it provided a final response to his first complaint by reminding him of its process for 
taking pension benefits. It says it could have checked with Mr T whether he wanted a follow 
up call from its retirement team. But since it was Mr Ts decision to end the initial call, it didnt 
think that it was responsible for any falls in the value of Mr Ts pension investments. 
Unhappy with that response, Mr T referred his complaint to us.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She said that she was 
satisfied that Aviva had managed Mr Ts pension investments appropriately. And she didnt 
think Mr Ts instruction to close his pension account was sufficient for Aviva to proceed  she 
thought he needed to provide further information to Aviva about how his pension benefits 
should be paid. And since Mr T hadnt followed up his initial telephone call with Aviva for 
more than a year, she thought it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr T no longer 
wished to proceed with taking his pension benefits at that time.
Mr T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There are two aspects to Mr Ts complaint  the way in which his pension savings have been 
invested, and what happened when he asked to close his pension account in 2021. I will 
deal with each in turn.
Aviva was not providing Mr T with any advice about his pension savings. So it wasnt 
responsible for ensuring that the way in which those pension savings were invested was 
suitable for Mr Ts circumstances. That was essentially something Mr T needed to decide for 
himself. But Aviva did need to provide Mr T with sufficient information on which he could 
base those decisions.
As I said earlier, at the start of his relationship with Aviva, Mr Ts pension savings were 
invested using a lifestyling approach. That was designed to move Mr Ts pension savings 
into less volatile investments as he approached his selected retirement age in 2015. A 
lifestyling approach will generally assume that pension savings will be used to purchase an 
annuity on retirement. Annuity rates are influenced by gilt prices, so the use of gilt 
investment funds would generally be seen as an appropriate way of managing risk in the run 
up to retirement.Once Mr T passed his selected retirement age in 2015, Aviva told him that its lifestyling 
approach had ended. By that time Mr Ts pension savings were invested in a mix of a 
deposit fund, and a gilt fund. That would seem to me, for the reasons I have explained 
above, an entirely reasonable outcome to the end of the lifestyling journey. But since Mr T 
had decided to not take his pension benefits at that time, it might have been appropriate to 
consider an alternative investment approach  reflecting the additional investment period 
before pension benefits were needed. But that was a decision Mr T needed to make  and 
I have seen that Aviva encouraged him to consider that matter when it wrote to him in 2015.
The investments that Mr T held might not offer the same returns that might be seen from 
alternative approaches. And any investment returns would be reduced by the application of 
the fees and charges that his investments attracted. So it isnt entirely surprising that Mr Ts 
pension savings, in more recent years, have reduced in value. But that doesnt mean that 
Aviva has done something wrong.
I can see that Aviva has sent Mr T regular statements, showing him both the investments 
that he held, and their value. If Mr T thought those investments were unsuitable for his 
circumstances he was able to ask Aviva to change the way in which his pension savings 
were invested. It wasnt for Aviva to suggest alternative approaches, or to make decisions on 
Mr Ts behalf.
So whilst I understand why Mr T would be disappointed with the performance of his pension 
investments over recent years, I dont think any problems are as a result of something that 
Aviva did wrong. Mr T needed to choose how his pension savings were invested, and Aviva 
sent him regular information about those investments.
I have looked carefully at the request Mr T sent to Aviva in July 2021. There is no doubt from 
that request that he wanted to close his pension account. But, given the highly regulated 
nature of pension savings, closing a pension plan isnt as simple as for example closing a 
bank account. 
In order for a pension plan to be closed, Aviva needs to be instructed by Mr T about what to 
do with the money. And the choice that would be made would generally be irreversible and 
potentially have significant income tax consequences for Mr T. The closure of his plan with 
Aviva could be effected by the transfer of his pension savings to another provider. By taking 
that approach Mr T would maintain the tax efficiencies of his pension savings. Or Mr T could 
close his pension plan by putting his pension benefits into payment. But again there are a 
number of choices open to him, such as purchasing an annuity, or taking a cash lump sum.
So I dont think that the instruction Mr T gave Aviva, to simply close his pension account, 
was sufficient to allow Aviva to proceed. Given the risks of incorrect decisions around taking 
pension benefits Aviva has agreed with its regulator that it will follow a set of defined steps 
before pension benefits are paid. Those are designed to ensure that consumers are fully 
informed before making any decision, and to allow consumers to consider whether the 
decision they are making is suitable for their circumstances, both now and for the remainder 
of their lives.Mr T started that process with Aviva during a telephone call on 5 July 2021. I havent been 
provided with a recording of that phone call, but as I will go on to explain, I dont think it is 
necessary for me to listen to what happened. The phone call was only the first stage of the 
retirement process. It was designed to provide Mr T with information about his options, and 
to allow him to seek further information, or clarifications, about taking his pension benefits. 
But in order for the retirement process to complete, Mr T would need to take part in a further 
phone discussion with Aviva, and to receive and complete some paperwork relating to the 
choices he had made.
Aviva says that the first call ended when Mr T wanted to seek some further information from 
HMRC about his income tax situation should he take his pension benefits. So I think the 
onus would have been on Mr T to get back in touch with Aviva when he was ready to 
continue the retirement discussions. It doesnt seem that is something that he did until he 
made his second complaint around a year later.
I have considered that it is possible that Mr T might have thought that the discussions he had 
with Aviva were sufficient to start the process of closing his pension account  as he had 
asked in his earlier email. But I dont think it unreasonable to conclude that Mr T would have 
been aware that he would likely need to complete some paperwork for that account to be 
closed. And I think he would have been expecting the payment of his pension savings, either 
to another pension plan that he had opened, or to him as a cash lump sum less any income 
tax that was due. Since neither happened, and Mr T didnt ask Aviva why no progress had 
been made until almost a year later, Im not persuaded that Mr T believed the retirement 
process had been concluded on the initial call either.
I dont know why Mr T didnt continue his conversations with Aviva. But I also note that since 
his second complaint was made, despite having further discussions with Aviva and it issuing 
him some retirement paperwork, at the time of our investigators assessment of the complaint 
last month Mr T had still not closed his pension plan. So even if I thought that Aviva should 
have got back in touch with Mr T after the call in July 2021, Im not persuaded it would have 
resulted in him taking his pension benefits any sooner.
I understand this part of my decision will also be disappointing for Mr T. But, on balance, Im 
not persuaded that Aviva acted unreasonably by seeking further information and authority 
before it implemented Mr Ts instruction to close his pension plan. So I dont think this part of 
the complaint should be upheld either.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman