DRN-2799628
The complaint
Mr V via a representative complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) hasnt fairly redressed him following a pension transfer in 1990.
What happened
A provisional decision has been issued which set out the background and my provisional 
findings. This is included below and forms part of this decision.
In 1990 Mr V was advised by Prudential to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a 
Personal Pension with Prudential. 
The transfer occurred in three tranches, in line with when the funds were released from the OPS. But 
formed one pension policy with Prudential.
One tranche was made up of non-protected rights. Whereas the other two tranches were made up of 
protected rights that came about from the OPS being contracted out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS).
In 1996, aged 50, Mr V took tax-free cash and an annuity from the non-protected rights tranche. At 
the time benefits couldnt be taken from protected rights until Mr V reached age 65. So the other two 
tranches remained invested with Prudential.
Later in 1999 Prudential wrote to Mr V to invite him to have his pension transfer reviewed under the 
industry wide Pension Review process set up originally by the Securities and Investment Board (SIB 
Review). Mr V accepted this invite and the review was carried out by a professional actuarial firm who 
specialised in Pension Review loss calculations.
In 2001, Prudential sent Mr V a letter with its offer of redress which it said had been carried out 
according to the guidelines set by the regulator in the SIB Review. It enclosed a summary of the loss 
assessment and the key facts and assumptions used. It said if any of this information was incorrect Mr 
V should return the form and let it know. Alternatively, Mr V could accept the offer in full and final 
settlement. Mr V accepted the offer and he was paid a cash lump sum intended to make up for the 
past shortfall in pension benefits compared with what he wouldve received from the OPS. Prudential 
also increased his annuity to account for the additional pension benefits hed lose out on going 
forward.
More recently, Mr Vs representative complained to Prudential about the advice to transfer. Prudential 
explained that it had already considered this matter and paid Mr V redress.
Mr Vs representative then brought the complaint to this service. He said Mr V hadnt been correctly 
redressed following the Pension Review. And that the review contained errors. He said hed got an 
actuary to assess the calculation and theyd found that:
The calculation had been carried out assuming the OPS wouldve allowed early retirement at age 
50. And as a result the scheme benefits had been substantially reduced by 69.5%. But it is 
practically certain that the scheme wouldnt have allowed retirement at this age. 
No allowance for discretionary increases has been made in the calculation. There is no evidence 
that Prudential checked what the increases were in the five years prior to 2001.
Mr Vs representative said that the only fair outcome considering these errors, would be for the loss 
calculation to be re-run but, instead, using the regulators new up-to-date guidance.
Prudential said the OPS would allow early retirement, (and it provided evidence of this), however it 
wasnt clear how this would be restricted to ensure any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) is 
secured. Prudential took the position that, if it was unclear, it would allow in the calculations for full 
cash commutation and allow early retirement combined with a step up (increased) pension at state 
pension age to ensure the GMP was met. It said the alternative would be to check at each birthday 
following retirement if the GMP was met. If it had done this for Mr V the loss wouldve been lower. It 
said it chose the first option as it was thought to be beneficial for customers. And it proved to be the 
case here.
Prudential also provided evidence from the OPS that no discretionary increases would be applied, 
mainly because the scheme was wound up in 1996. It said if Mr Vs representative had evidence to 
the contrary it would happily look into this for him.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the 
review had been done in accordance with the regulators guidance and she couldnt see any grounds 
to say that Prudential should review matters again.
Mr Vs representative didnt agree, he said the investigator had interpreted the regulators guidance 
incorrectly. He said that the calculation in 2001 shouldve been carried out on a prospective loss basis 
under the review guidance, using Mr Vs normal retirement date of 2011 rather than on an actual loss 
basis at the time.
Mr Vs representative argued that the calculation should only be carried out on an actual loss basis if 
hed retired. And taking his benefits from the non-protected tranche didnt mean hed retired for the 
purposes of the SIB Review.
He also said there was no evidence that Prudential had checked, as it was required to do, if re-
instatement into the OPS was an option for Mr V. And that Prudential had not used the correct 
assumptions for future loss regarding the protected rights tranches. He said Prudential had used 
assumptions for future charges of zero which was incorrect.
The investigator responded to say that the SIB Review says that early retirement is a qualifying event 
for actual loss calculations and therefore Prudential was right to do it on this basis. The OPS scheme 
had already been closed prior to the review so re-instatement wasnt an option. And the loss 
assessment did allow for future costs on the protected rights.
Mr Vs representative disagreed with the investigator. He said the fact that Mr V had taken his benefits 
early from his non-protected rights didnt mean hed retired. He re-stated his view that the calculation 
shouldve been done on a prospective loss basis. And therefore, it had been carried out incorrectly 
and now should be done using the new guidance and assumptions.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs representative initially raised a number of issues regarding the calculations that his actuary 
flagged up. As set out above. But Prudential and our investigator provided further evidence and 
explanation that answered these points. For the avoidance of doubt, having considered all the 
evidence, I agree with the investigators view on these points and for the same reasons.
Subsequently, Mr Vs representative explained his point of contention was that the calculation had 
been carried out incorrectly on an actual loss basis rather than a prospective loss basis. And that the 
regulators guidance says it should now be considered under the new assumptions. So as this 
remains in dispute, my decision will focus on this issue. 
What is it I have to decide?Ultimately, the issue for me to decide is whether Prudential has already fairly redressed Mr Vs 
pension transfer. And whether Prudential needs to do anything more to put things right for Mr V.
Mr Vs representative originally complained about the pension transfer. But as Prudential had already 
carried out a loss calculation, in essence, conceding the complaint about suitability, I dont need to 
consider or discuss the suitability of the transfer. 
Both parties already agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this situation. 
So, I dont need to decide that. (For the avoidance of doubt, I think the Pension Review process 
represents fair redress in this case. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances and 
it aimed to put Mr V  as close as was practical  in the position hed have been if not for the poor 
advice, which is the usual approach of the ombudsman service to redress.)
Prudentials position
Prudentials position is that it has already considered Mr Vs transfer in-line with the SIB Pension 
Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business  Statement 
of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators thereafter. Prudential says it 
paid Mr V redress in-line with the SIB Review guidance and it was accepted in full and final 
settlement. And that it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again. 
Mr Vs representatives position
Mr Vs representative says that the review in 2001 wasnt carried out correctly as it was done on an 
actual loss basis rather than a prospective loss basis and therefore is invalid. And should now be re-
done but instead using the new FG17/9 review guidance.
FG17/9  what is its purpose?
The initial SIB Review guidance issued in 1994 included assumptions to be used when calculating the 
potential loss, both in the approach to be adopted and the financial data to be used. The financial data 
was revised regularly by the regulator from 1994 to April 2003 but for many years the approach itself 
remained largely unchanged. 
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time that the 
calculation was carried out and compensation paid. This included where mistakes were discovered in 
the original calculations. 
Most of the reviews were carried out between 1994 and 2003. And in 2003 the regulator stopped 
updating these assumptions.  But the Pension Review methodology continued to be used by the 
industry and this service to assess complaints about the loss of OPS benefits due to advice given by 
firms. So, our service commissioned a firm of actuaries to continue to revise the assumptions for this 
purpose.
More recently the FCA issued new guidance called Finalised Guidance in 2017 or FG17/9. FG17/9 
was pre-dominantly designed for complaints upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 
2016. 
Initially during the FCAs consultation period, any case that fell within the Pension Review period 
(regardless of whether it was reviewed) was planned to be excluded from FG17/9. But after the 
consultation period, FG17/9 introduced some leeway for cases that fell within this period  in 
instances where the firm did not review the relevant pension transaction in accordance with the 
regulatory standards at the time and/or the particular circumstances of the case were not addressed 
by those standards. Mr Vs representative argues that this is the case here, as Prudential carried out 
the review on an incorrect loss basis.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
The original SIB review guidance says in relation to transfers:
Loss assessment - Transfers405 There  are two types  of possible  loss:
(a)Actual  financial  loss:  When  an event  (such  as death  or retirement)  has already  
occurred  giving  rise to benefits  and the benefits  from the personal  pension  are less 
than those  the occupational  scheme  would  have  conferred.
(b)Prospective  financial  loss:  Where  the investor  (or his/her  spouse  or 
dependants)  is exposed  to the probability  of an actual  financial  loss when  an 
event  such  as death  or retirement  occurs  in the future.
406 The reviewer  should  test for either  actual  financial  loss or prospective  financial  loss,  
depending  on whether  or not the investor  has died or retired  at the date of the review.  It should  
not be necessary  to test for both.
Actual  loss (i.e. when  death  or retirement  has already  occurred)
411 When:  Test for loss as at the date of crystallisation  i.e. death  or actual  retirement  - including  
early  retirement  (my emphasis).
Prudential  carried  out the loss assessment  on an actual  loss basis  as Mr V had taken  his benefits  
early  and in advance  of his normal  retirement  date.  
Mr V took his benefits  in 1996  from the non-protected  rights  at age 50. But he was unable  to take 
benefits  from his other  two tranches  (the protected  rights  parts)  as the legislation  in place  at the 
time required  these  to be taken  at age 65.
Prudential  says  during  the review  process  this situation  was common  place   and this was the 
approach  always  taken.  It said when  performing  a loss calculation  where  theres  a partial  vesting  
of the Personal  Pension  the approach  taken  is to take the initial  vesting  date as the assumed  
OPS  retirement  date.
So, for this reason  Prudential  calculated  the actual  loss on the non-protected  rights  tranche  at 
that date.  And for the protected  rights  tranches  it produced  a value  at the date of calculation.  This 
was to be compared  with the benefits  that wouldve  been  available  within  the OPS  at that date.  
Therefore,  providing  a loss at the date of calculation  to be paid to Mr V as compensation  in full 
and final settlement.  And drawing  a line under  the matter  as the Pension  Review  was designed.  
Its not in debate  that Mr V crystallised  part of his pension.  And took his benefits  before  his 
retirement  date on that particular  tranche.  
The SIB review  guidance  says  its not necessary  to test for both actual  and prospective  loss.  As 
Mr V had taken  early  retirement  and crystallised  his benefits  for his non-protected  rights,  as 
stated  in section  411 of the SIB Review  this qualifies  as actual  loss.
Furthermore,  the approach  taken  by Prudential  in the calculation,  is the same  approach  Ive seen  
taken  on many  other  cases  by many  other  firms.  And as previously  stated  these  calculations  
were  carried  out by an outsourced  specialist  actuarial  firm, who were  the experts  in this field.  
They  deemed  this method  to be the correct  way to assess  this type of case.  And these  reviews  
were  subject  to strict  internal  and external  checks.  The regulator  checked  a sample  of cases  from 
firms  to make  sure that they were  carrying  out the review  process  correctly.  And had there  been  
a problem  with a particular  approach  taken  then,  I think  the regulator  wouldve  addressed  this at 
the time.
This is particularly  relevant  here,  as it should  also be kept in mind  that almost  all transfers  from 
defined  benefit  schemes  involved  protected  rights.  And therefore,  anyone  taking  Personal  
Pension  benefits  earlier  than age 65 (or 60 depending  on male  or female  and legislation  changes  
over the time)  wouldnt  have  been  able to draw  on their protected  rights  benefits.
Mr Vs representative  says  that section  405 and 411 (referred  to above)  are not relevant  as Mr V 
had not taken  early  retirement.  But I dont  agree.  Mr Vs representative  argues  that retirement  refers  to the normal  retirement  date of the plan,  for 
Mr V this was age 65 in 2011.  And therefore  a prospective  loss calculation  should  be used.  
However,  actual  loss includes  early  retirement  as stated  in SIB Review  rule 411 quoted  above.
It seems  to me that this is an argument  of semantics  that taking  your benefits  doesnt  qualify  as 
retirement.  But the SIB Review  makes  clear  the date of crystallisation  (taking  benefits)  is the test 
to be applied  here.  And not retirement  as in the more  general  use of the term and/or  the normal  
retirement  date of the plan.  And within  the industry,  taking  your benefits  from a pension  plan prior 
to normal  retirement  is referred  to as (early)  retirement.
To support  his argument  Mr Vs representative  has quoted  page  95 of the SIB Review  which  is 
from the appendices  section  of the SIB Review  guidance  referred  to above.
It says:
Assumptions  for prospective  loss assessment  Appendix  D
Retirement  age:
Use the earlier  of:
Normal  Retirement  Age in the former  scheme;
the earliest  age the member  could  have  retired  without  company/trustee  consent  and be 
guaranteed  not to suffer  a reduction  in accrued  pension  for early  payment.
Do not allow  for:
early  retirement  which  requires  the company's  or trustees'  consent;
early  retirement  which  imposes  an actuarial  reduction  on accrued  benefits  to reflect  early  
payment;
discretionary  early  retirement  policies;
late retirement
However,  this isnt relevant.  As mentioned  above,  this is in the appendices  for assessing  
prospective  loss at the end of the SIB Review  document.  This section  relates  to those  who 
havent  already  crystallised  their benefits.  But prospective  loss isnt what  is being  assessed  here.  
The test in the SIB Review  as to whether  actual  loss or prospective  loss should  be used  is 
described  in rule 405, 406 and 411(quoted  above).
Mr Vs representative  has also quoted  from the FCAs  finalised  guidance  FG17/9,  and provided  
an article  discussing  the Pension  Review  and prospective  loss to support  his argument.  The 
article  refers  to prospective  loss calculations,  which  as Ive explained  isnt relevant  here.
The FG17/9  guidance  isnt relevant  here either,  as in order for me to conclude that a new 
calculation was required, I would expect there to be a reason to firstly say the original calculation 
wasnt in accordance with the SIB Pension Review guidance as it applied at the time. FG17/9 was not 
set up to re-review cases that have already been considered fairly under the SIB Review. 
So, I dont agree with Mr Vs representative that Prudential didnt follow the SIB Review guidance. It 
followed the regulatory standards of the time.  And I think the approach taken by Prudential to do the 
calculation on an actual loss basis was fair and reasonable. The purpose  of the SIB Review  was to 
put customers  back  into the position  they wouldve  been,  had it not been  for the unsuitable  
advice.  The cleanest  way to do this was to re-instate  a customer  into their OPS.  But where  this 
was not possible  (or cost effective),  assumptions  had to be made  in an attempt  to put a customer  
in a comparable  position  in the Personal  Pension  and to draw  a line under  the matter.  
Assumptions  such  as what  date would  the customer  have  taken  their benefits  from the OPS.  The 
approach  set out in the SIB Review  guidance  and the one taken  by Prudential  here  was that 
where  benefits  had been  crystallised  in the Personal  Pension,  this date would  be used  for the 
purpose  of valuing  the OPS  benefits  given  up. I dont  think  this is unreasonable.
Provisional conclusions As I consider that the review has already been carried out in line with the standards applicable at the 
time and it was settled in full and final settlement then, I can see no fair or reasonable reason, nor any 
reason under the relevant guidance (the SIB Review) or FG17/9 to say that Prudential needs to do 
more here.
That said, I do understand why Mr V and his representative are unhappy with the situation. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the SIB Review havent mirrored reality. Since the calculations 
were carried out, investment returns have generally been lower than assumed. And annuity rates 
have fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact on the benefits provided by 
Personal Pensions.
So, although it was thought the compensation plus the existing value of the pension would be high 
enough to match the OPS at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for some of those assessed 
under the SIB Review. But the fact that the assumptions havent been met, is not reason to say that 
Prudential did anything wrong or treated Mr V unfairly. Prudential addressed the issues at the time, 
following good practice at the time. It was entitled to consider the matter closed. Taking everything 
into account, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Prudential to carry out the loss calculation 
again now.
Mr Vs representative didnt agree with my decision. Initially he made the point that in 
Prudentials calculations from the time, the document had an error warning that said CA9 
actual loss is prospective. Mr Vs representative felt this was further evidence that the loss 
shouldve been a prospective loss.
Prudential in response told us: 
 C codes are defined in RECAL software manual as calculation warning codes generated 
to indicate that an item calculated (as opposed to input) may need to be investigated 
further. The HCAS technical manual takes this further to say they do not necessarily 
indicate an error but may need further explanation.
The CA9 code is fully defined as Actual Loss is prospective (use redress figure for loss). 
It has been generated as a fund value has been input for (former) protected rights retained 
on personal pension at calculation date. It warns that the redress calculated at calculation 
date (24/11/2001) should be used as opposed to the loss calculated at retirement date 
(vesting date of 24/07/1996). At the date of assessment all warning / error messages are 
checked by the case-reviewer and where appropriate disclosed / dealt with, in this 
instance no further action was deemed necessary. You will see from the case modelling 
notes this warning code was specifically covered.
Later Mr Vs representative submitted a barristers report setting out why more needed to be 
done to provide Mr V with fair redress. In summary the report said:
Mr V took the benefits from the non-protected rights in 1996 and bought an annuity. 
He did not retire from his occupation until age 63 in 2009
Mr V took these benefits in the belief that the pension available was at least 
equivalent to what he couldve got from the OPS  because of the advice given to 
him by Prudential.
The Pension Review offer said the calculation date for the loss used by Prudential 
was 24 July 1996, described in the loss calculations as Mr Vs date of retirement. 
Mr V was invited to check the offer but the details of the offer would be beyond 
anyone other than an actuarys competence to comprehend.
The issue at hand is whether redress ought to have been assessed prospectively 
looking to Mr Vs actual or normal retirement date and not the date of partial vesting 
of benefits. The ombudsman had agreed provisionally with Prudentials standpoint that the SIB Review is clear that taking benefits qualifies as retirement and therefore 
falls under actual loss.
To consider this issue and the correct implementation of SIB specification and what 
is meant by retirement in this context, requires an exercise of contractual 
interpretation.
The report quotes case law Investors Compensation Scheme v West Bromwich 
Building Society [1998] 1 WLR 896 HL at 913E and Antaios Compania Naviera SA v 
Salem Rederiema AB [1985] AC 191 at 201; which said language used needed to 
consider what a reasonable person with all the background knowledge would have 
understood it to mean. Words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning
The report set out that the redress already paid to Mr V didnt meet compensatory 
principles with reference to case law.  In summary that any redress should take into 
account what the claimant wouldve done had they been given advice by a 
competent adviser. The loss suffered should reflect the effects of not receiving that 
good advice. And that it is impossible to conclude the claimant would comprehend 
their loss until they appreciate the actual loss they have suffered and how the 
negligent advice had caused that loss. To do so requires an understanding of what 
good advice wouldve looked like and what position they then wouldve been in.
The barrister concluded this point by saying that properly read the SIB specification is 
consistent with this approach.
If Mr V had been given proper advice he wouldve retained the benefits in his OPS. 
He took his benefits in 1996 believing that he would be no worse off doing so than he 
wouldve been taking benefits from the OPS.
Had Mr V not been given the incorrect advice, and instead been advised to retain his 
benefits in the OPS, he wouldve known the longer he left the benefits the better. And 
he wouldnt have taken his benefits until his retirement from employment.
The flaw in the current position that Prudential and the ombudsman have taken is not 
considering the position that Mr V wouldve been in had he been given correct 
advice. In that situation he would never have taken his benefits early.
The correct position for redress, should be to redress Mr V against the benefits of the 
OPS at normal retirement date or actual retirement date with a deduction for the 
benefits already received.
The SIB specification says its aims are to provide proper redress without recourse to 
courts. And therefore its clear the methodology was expected to replicate the 
outcome that a court would reach.
Therefore the SIB specifications should not be interpreted in a way that delivers its 
own autonomous regime with its own definitions which in turn can lead to results 
other than that which a court would reach.
The report then moved on to what the SIB specification said in part II which refers to 
the compliance assessment. The report points out that this section clearly refers to 
retirement in the conventional sense rather than taking benefits.
Whereas Prudential and the ombudsman have relied upon partial vesting of benefits 
qualifying as an event of retirement- and therefore this fits the actual loss definition. 
Consistency of definition demands that retirement should have the same meaning 
wherever it is used in the specification.
There is nothing to say that an event of partial vesting should automatically equal that 
of retirement. This depends on the facts of an individual case  it may or may not 
equate to the investors decision to take retirement. 
The approach taken by Prudential and the ombudsman does not answer the 
question: what loss did the non-compliant advice cause? Without proper investigation of the facts, this approach will lead to a disconnect between the loss (against a value 
which competent advice would have delivered) and the actual error or mistake made 
by the adviser which led to the need for compensation.
Bad advice can have more than one consequence. A foreseeable consequence of 
the bad advice was that Mr V might choose to take out an annuity at any age from 50 
onwards - without understanding that he wouldve been better off leaving his benefits 
within the OPS until actual or normal retirement. It is this loss that common law 
principles indicate that Mr V should be compensated for. And this very loss is 
deprived by the approach Prudential and the ombudsman have taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I have to decide?
I have to decide whether Prudential has already fairly redressed Mr Vs pension transfer. 
The barristers report summarised above made numerous points. Ive not provided a detailed 
response to all the arguments raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an informal service for 
resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. Ive considered all the 
points raised and Ill answer the relevant points within my findings but not necessarily 
specifically and point by point. My findings will concentrate on what I think is relevant and at 
the heart of this complaint. 
Having considered all the evidence afresh, I am not persuaded to change my decision. I am 
satisfied that Prudential carried out the review in line with the regulatory guidance and that 
this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint back in 2001. Ill explain in more 
detail why my decision has not changed and with reference to the further arguments made.
Does taking benefits/crystallising a pension equate to retirement under the Pension Review 
guidance?
In the barristers report prepared on behalf of Mr V  it is argued my interpretation of the 
following parts of the SIB specification is incorrect: 
405 There  are two types  of possible  loss:
(a)Actual  financial  loss:  When  an event  (such  as death  or retirement)  has already  
occurred  giving  rise to benefits  and the benefits  from the personal  pension  are less 
than those  the occupational  scheme  would  have  conferred.
and
Actual  loss (i.e. when  death  or retirement  has already  occurred)
411 When:  Test for loss as at the date of crystallisation  i.e. death  or actual  retirement  - including  
early  retirement
The barristers report argues that where the SIB specification refers to retirement in actual 
loss cases, Mr V taking benefits from the personal pension ought not to be considered 
retirement or early retirement. The initial SIB guidance and the later updates (as Ill evidence later in the decision) make 
numerous references to retirement and early retirement equating to benefit crystallisation 
and taking benefits. I think it is clear that this use of the word retirement is referring to the 
industry term of retirement  to take benefits from a pension. And not retirement in the sense 
of occupational retirement (to retire from all work). 
Further, the way Ive interpreted this is the way that the expert actuarial firms such as Hazell 
Carr who were setup specifically to carry out these calculations (and carried out this 
calculation) interpreted it. And in my experience, this is how other firms within the industry 
interpreted it as well. Furthermore, the various regulatory bodies carried out checks 
throughout the lifespan of the Pension Review (and these circumstances are not 
uncommon), yet no guidance was issued to the contrary about this method. In fact as Ill 
show later, additional guidance supports that partially taking benefits should be treated as 
retirement and the assumption can be made that benefits wouldve been taken under the 
OPS at that date.
The barrister argues to consider what retirement means or should mean in this context - and 
the correct implementation of the SIB specification  we need to take into account 
contractual interpretation and what a court would say. And then goes further to say this 
would result in retirement having its common meaning  to stop working. 
However, I dont think this is correct. The SIB specification and the later guidance is not a 
contract between businesses and customers. It is guidance to be used by the regulatory 
bodies (and was subsequently adopted by the Personal Investment Authority  PIA) and was 
subject to monitoring by them.
As set out in R. v Securities and Investments Board Ex p. Independent Financial Advisers 
Association [1995] Pens. L.R. 123:
Under the Financial Services Act 1986, no person was to conduct investment 
business unless he/she was an authorised person.  There were three ways to 
become an authorised person: (a) authorisation by the Secretary of State; (b) 
membership of a recognised self-regulating organisation (SRO) (recognised by the 
Securities and Investments Board, which had the power to revoke recognition 
(SIB)); and (c) membership of a recognised professional body (RPB) (again, 
recognised by the SIB).  The SROs were the front-line regulators, with the SIB as the 
overall regulator.   
SIB had the power to issue statements of principle in relation to the conduct expected of 
authorised persons. The SIB Review was guidance for the SROs, as well as the 75 directly 
authorised firms. Prudential was regulated by the PIA at the time it carried out Mr Vs review. 
It was therefore expected to follow the guidance SIB and subsequently PIA issued.
Therefore, I think the proper approach to interpretation for the SIB guidance is the approach 
to statutory interpretation, which is as follows: 
The starting point is the ordinary meaning of the word, in the relevant context, but 
if the word has a technical meaning (e.g in a business context), it should be 
interpreted using that meaning in that context.  
If this approach produces an absurd result, or a result which is inconsistent with 
the rest of the statute, the word can be modified to avoid the absurdity or 
inconsistency. 
If the wording is ambiguous, the court will take the rationale for the statute into 
account and consider the previous legislation, the defect in it, the remedy which was being implemented, and the purpose of the remedy.  
The relevant meaning is the one as at the time the statute was passed.
I think its clear from a statutory interpretation point that retirement in SIB and the further 
guidance doesnt relate to retirement as in cessation of work. It has a technical meaning to 
take benefits/crystallisation of a pension. 
For example, looking at the test for actual loss. If we remove the word retirement (used as 
an example of the event) and focus on what the specification actually says: 
405 There  are two types  of possible  loss:
(a)Actual  financial  loss:  When  an eventhas  already  occurred  giving  rise to benefits  
and the benefits  from the personal  pension  are less than those  the occupational  
scheme  would  have  conferred.
I think  this makes  clear  that actual  loss refers  to taking  benefits  from a personal  pension  
and not retirement.  If retirement  were  to mean  cessation  of work  here  then there  
would  be a complete  disconnect  between  that and the rest of the 405 specification.  
Retirement  in an industry  sense  is to take benefits.  That definition  fits with the rest of the 
specification.  Retirement  as cessation  of work,  doesnt.
The barrister has referred to the SIB specification part 21 which says A central question is 
whether the investor would have made a different decision if there had been no material 
compliance fault. And has made the point that here retirement clearly refers to retirement in 
the sense of cessation of work.
However, this is relevant to the compliance section  i.e helping the business to decide 
whether the case should be deemed non-compliant and upheld. It is not relevant to the loss 
or redress section. Prudential accepted non-compliance and went straight to assessing loss 
and therefore this point isnt relevant.
Looking  at the test for actual  loss it wouldnt  make  sense  if retirement  was to mean  
cessation  of work.  Ill explain  why:
411 When:  Test for loss as at the date of crystallisation  i.e. death  or actual  retirement  - 
including  early  retirement
The test is at date of crystallisation  including actual retirement or early retirement. If 
retirement were to mean cessation of work  this doesnt bring about a date of crystallisation 
of personal pension benefits. As retiring from work and taking benefits from a personal 
pension (crystallisation) are not necessarily linked. But taking retirement from a personal 
pension does bring about an event of crystallisation, both at the set retirement date of the 
pension (actual retirement) and early retirement. 
In conclusion on this point, the SIB guidance is not a contract between businesses and 
customers, so statutory interpretation is the correct approach. And as Ive set out above (and 
in my provisional findings), retirement and crystallisation are industry terms to mean taking 
benefits as opposed to meaning to stop working. And I think a court is likely to interpret the 
guidance to be consistent with this.
Does redress under the Pension Review have to reflect what a court would award?
The over-riding point made in the barristers report is that the redress under the Pension 
Review shouldve reflected the compensation which Mr V would have received if he had gone to court. And if Mr V had gone to court, the court would have awarded redress on the 
basis that, if Mr V had been given competent advice, he would have kept his OPS. And he 
wouldnt have taken benefits early as he would get a better pension the longer he deferred 
taking it.
However, I dont agree that the aim of the Pension Review was to exactly replicate a court 
decision. And the guidance in terms of redressing the situation, does not ask a business to 
consider what a customer wouldve done had they been given best advice. Rather it 
requests that firms make assumptions. 
Particularly relevant here is the PIA Guidance for Review of Past Business - Transfers (July 
1995) Guidance on Technical Matters - Actual Loss Assessment part 5 pg 120.
Investor Options: Where the investor has exercised an option e.g. to retire early or to 
commute part of his pension for cash at retirement and equivalent options were available 
under the occupational scheme it should be assumed that the investor would have taken 
equivalent action to satisfy the same needs had he not transferred.  
The guidance therefore asks firms to make an assumption rather than asking the firm to 
consider what the consumer might have done if given proper advice. The assumption is that 
the consumer would have taken their benefits at the same date under the OPS  which as Ill 
explain later in more detail, is what Prudential did.
In reaching a fair and reasonable decision on this case, I have to consider the context of the 
Pension Review, the guidance issued through time and as this complaint relates to a 
historical event, what our predecessor scheme wouldve said. Rather than, as Mr Vs 
representative and barrister are suggesting, to view the situation without this context and 
come to a new conclusion based on different tests.
Our rules state:
DISP 3.6.5G: Where the Ombudsman is determining what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a relevant new complaint, the Ombudsman Transitional Order,  
make[s] provision for him to take into account what determination the former Ombudsman 
might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint dealt with under 
the former scheme in question immediately before the relevant order came into effect.
Relevant new complaint: (in accordance with the Ombudsman Transitional Order) a 
complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service after commencement [1 December 
2001] which relates to an act or omission occurring before commencement [1 December 
2001] if:
(a) the act or omission is that of a person who was, immediately before 
commencement, subject to a former scheme;
(b) the act or omission occurred in the carrying on by that person of an activity to 
which that former scheme applied; and
(c) the complainant is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under the 
new scheme;
Our predecessor scheme the Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau (PIAOB) 
issued the following statement in 1996: 
Statement by the PIA OmbudsmanMembers are aware that, following the review of past business in connection with 
Pension Transfers and Optouts published by the Securities and Investments Board in 
October 1994, the Personal Investment Authority published its Statement of Policy on 
the same subject in February 1995. This was followed by its detailed Guidance in 
three sections issued in April, July and August 1995, and further Notes dated 
December 1995. 
The Ombudsman's Terms of Reference require him to have regard to, among other 
things, such guidance as was relevant to a PIA Member's business at the time of the 
events which gave rise to the subject matter of the complaint, and any relevant 
standards of redress as issued by PIA. He has therefore considered the Statement of 
Policy, Guidance and Notes with the assistance of his independent legal and 
actuarial advisers. He feels that it would be helpful to publish this statement of his 
broad approach. 
The Ombudsman must consider every case on its individual merits and in 
accordance with his Terms of Reference. Having said that, he has concluded, in the 
light of the advice he has received, that the documents published by PIA referred to 
above constitute an appropriate basis for the settlement of most cases. He will 
normally decide disputes in accordance with the principles and guidance laid down in 
those documents, unless the circumstances of a particular case lead him to the 
conclusion that a different outcome is more appropriate.
News from the Ombudsman Bureau, June 1999, states on page 2: 
oWe are aware of criticism of some aspects of the Pension Review redress 
guidance.  
oIt may be that from time to time individuals may get redress offers under the 
Review process which might be less than they could obtain if they went to 
court. We can only say might because so far there have not been any court 
decisions in Pension Review cases. Under our Terms of Reference we are 
obliged to apply any legal rule or principle if it gives a better outcome for the 
complainant than applying relevant redress guidance. This could mean us 
unpicking the Review Guidance in any particular case and second guessing 
what the courts might do. That would not, in our view, be in the general 
interests of complainants as a whole given that in unpicking the Guidance, 
other issues could well come to light which were to the detriment of the 
complainant, such as limitation issues. 
oWe do not think, therefore, that this unpicking of the Guidance would be 
appropriate. The Pension Review, and continued public confidence in it, is, as 
we have said, in the public interest. That interest is not served by this Bureau 
using its resources to question the Guidance, except where those questions 
arise from criticisms raised by complainants to the effect that the guidance 
has not addressed their own singular circumstances.
oThe Ombudsmen and the Bureaus Council feel that it is appropriate for this 
Bureau to adhere to the Guidance issued by PIA and FSA and, accordingly, 
our Terms of Reference have been amended, with effect from 1 April 1999, 
by the insertion of a new paragraph 5.2a which we set out below:
If, in respect of a complaint relating to a pension transaction, the 
Ombudsman is satisfied that the firm in question has made an offer 
which complies with the PIAs standards of redress then he shall make no award or recommendation unless he is of the opinion that the 
particular circumstances of the case are not addressed by the 
standards.
Also relevant here is: SIB Pension Transfers and Opt Outs: Review of Past Business Part 1: 
Statement of Policy.
Past transactions must be judged against the regulatory requirements applicable 
when the advice was given and against the assumptions which were reasonably 
made at the time; there should be no retrospective imposition of later, more exacting, 
requirements. In this way it is intended that neither the investment firm nor the 
personal pension policyholder should be given any reason to litigate to achieve a 
more favourable outcome. 
Although one of the aims of the Pension Review was that neither the investment firm nor 
the personal pension policyholder should be given any reason to litigate to achieve a more 
favourable outcome, the guidance on calculating redress involved a number of 
assumptions, some of which might result in an outcome which differed from the award which 
a court might make, depending on the circumstances. I think this is inevitable in a review 
process such as this, where the firm needed to remediate a large number of cases.  I think it 
is therefore an overstatement to say that the Pension Review aimed to replicate the outcome 
which the court wouldve reached.  As set out above by the PIAOB in June 1999, the 
Pension Review might not yield the same result as court proceedings.  
Its therefore my view that the PIAOBs approach was that it wouldnt have ordered 
Prudential to pay any further redress to Mr V, provided it was satisfied that Prudential had 
followed the Pension Review guidance and that his circumstances were not outside the 
scope of the guidance. 
Did Prudential follow the Pension Review Guidance?
Ive already explained in my provisional findings (which forms part of this decision) why I 
think Actual Loss (according to how it was described in the original SIB specification) was 
the correct method to use.  I wont repeat those arguments here. And Ive already set out 
that I think retirement in this context refers to taking benefits or benefit crystallisation.
Mr Vs representative and his barrister have argued that Mr V taking the non-protected rights 
benefits from his pension early in 1996 shouldnt have been considered under actual loss. 
Nor should it equate to early retirement under the OPS.
The SIB guidance in 1994 set out the initial review process and guidance. But as Ive 
discussed earlier in the decision, PIA continued to work on and update the guidance and 
through Pension Review bulletins that it issued periodically. 
The PIA Guidance for Review of Past Business Transfers (July 1995) says (p119-121):
Guidance on Technical Matters - Actual Loss Assessment
3. Date of Crystallisation
Where the event is retirement, the date of crystallisation is the date with effect from 
which the pension first commenced from the personal pension. The date of 
crystallisation is used to determine the benefits valued in the loss assessment
In some cases, there could be both Actual and Prospective loss. This is most 
likely to occur where the investor has retired before state pension age and there are protected rights. Where this applies, it will normally be appropriate to 
undertake the loss assessment as at the date of the review (my emphasis). Any 
shortfall in actual benefits should be accumulated at bank base rates to the date of 
the review. Bank base rates from 29 April 1988 to July 1995 are shown in Annex 
E(B).

5. Investor Options
Where the investor has exercised an option e.g. to retire early or to commute part of 
his pension for cash at retirement and equivalent options were available under the 
occupational scheme it should be assumed that the investor would have taken 
equivalent action to satisfy the same needs had he not transferred.
In the case of early retirement at an age not normally allowed by the scheme 
trustees, the value used should be the value of occupational scheme benefits that 
would have been available had the investor not transferred. Alternatively, a fair 
approximation to the benefits the scheme might have allowed on early retirement 
may be used.
So its important to acknowledge here that the way the PIA described a situation like Mr Vs 
was somewhat different to how the SIB described it. SIB referred to it as actual loss in the 
original specification  and in fact said 'it should  not be necessary  to test for both [actual  
and prospective  loss] '. Whereas PIA clarified that whilst the test is still done on one date 
(the date of the review) it did in fact involve part actual loss and part prospective loss (on the 
protected rights).
Importantly this wasnt saying that the whole calculation should be done as a prospective 
loss  i.e. assuming that Mr V didnt take benefits from his OPS at all until normal retirement 
age. So whilst it helpfully clarifies the matter it doesnt change the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Mr V had taken his benefits before state pension age and there were protected rights. This 
was a situation that at the time of the original SIB specification was described as an actual 
loss  which is how I referred to it in my provisional decision  and in the PIA technical 
guidance as both an actual and prospective loss. And Prudential carried out the loss 
assessment as at the date of review. This shows that Prudentials approach was in line with 
the regulatory guidance at the time. It seems to me that this situation is also precisely what 
the warning CA9 actual loss is prospective in Prudentials calculation conveyed.
As stated above, the Pension Review guidance directs firms to assume the equivalent action 
taken in the personal pension wouldve been taken under the OPS. So again here I think 
Prudential (or the actuarial firm carrying out the calculations on their behalf) followed the 
guidelines in assessing Mr Vs loss.
Mr Vs representative has questioned the fairness in using age 50 as the retirement age and 
the early retirement factor used. And said Prudential had wrongly assumed that he wouldve 
been able to retire from the OPS. However, as stated above the guidance allowed 
assumptions and I think the assumptions made were fair.
Prudential provided evidence that early retirement at 50 was allowed under the scheme with 
consent of the trustees. It should be noted at the time of review the scheme had been 
closed. The date of closure and winding up was however after Mr V had taken benefits from 
the personal pension. In any case, it was believed by the actuaries that it was unlikely Mr V wouldve been allowed to retire at age 50 from the OPS because of the cost of providing his 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension which wouldve become payable at age 65. 
Unfortunately the scheme documentation that Prudential had received, didnt show what the 
early retirement deduction factor wouldve been at 50. The earliest shown was at age 55  
which had a factor of 56%. The actuaries carrying out the calculation thought it very unlikely 
the scheme wouldve applied the same factor for someone retiring 4 years and 10 months 
earlier (the date when Mr V took his personal pension benefits). It therefore made an 
extrapolation using the evidence it did have to determine the early retirement factor here of 
69%. I dont think thats an unreasonable assumption.
However, importantly, Prudential say that this calculation method was generously in favour 
of Mr V. It carried out the calculation assuming the scheme wouldve allowed retirement at 
50. This essentially means that the scheme would pay the lower level of pension available at 
that age, but still step up to the same GMP amount that Mr V would always have received 
from age 65. In other words, Mr Vs GMP wasnt reduced by the assumption that hed retired 
early from the OPS.  
So, even with the substantial early retirement factor in place this produced a higher loss than 
calculating at later ages  when he might well have been able to retire under the OPS. 
Prudential tested retirement at every age from 51 to age 56 and the loss reduced going 
forward (56 was the first age where the cost of the GMP would be covered at early 
retirement). At 56 the loss was 8,805.71 compared to the date Mr V took his benefits at 50 
and 2 months of 10,472.46. 
Therefore, I think Prudential (or the actuaries doing the assessment) made fair assumptions 
and seemingly gave Mr V the most favourable outcome that realistically met the 
circumstances.
The guidance also said this in PIA Regulatory Update 46 issued on 11 March 1999: 
Where the personal pension has been vested prior to scheme retirement age and it 
is assumed that the investor would have retired early under the scheme at the same 
date, the redress offer letter must clearly explain the approach adopted and confirm 
the overall actuarial reduction factor that has been applied.
PIA firmly believes that offer letters need to be drafted so they can be clearly 
understood by the investor. Adopting a similar approach to that used in drafting 
reason why letters can help to achieve this aim. In general, where there is doubt 
about how best to proceed, a particular case may often be addressed without 
delay by making a reasonable assumption and explaining the approach to the 
investor (my emphasis). 
In particular, the investors attention should be drawn to all of the key assumptions 
made, for example, in the absence of complete or up-to-date data, or of an indication 
of what the investor would have done if he or she had not left the scheme. The 
investor should be advised to consider the assumptions carefully and invited to 
comment before taking any further action, as the amount of redress may be 
significantly affected. A more detailed explanation may be offered on request, rather 
than providing detailed explanations in the initial letter.
In Prudentials offer letter to Mr V it set out amongst other things, You would have retired 
from your employer's scheme on 24 July 1996. This is the date on which you retired from 
your personal pension.  So I think Prudential met their responsibilities under the guidance here as well when making 
the offer to Mr V. I appreciate from the arguments made that his representative may consider 
Mr V was ill equipped to engage with Prudential on this point. But it was open to him to take 
his own advice on the adequacy of Prudentials offer  or question the assumptions made 
before he accepted it.
In conclusion of this point, I think the Pension Review addressed Mr Vs circumstances and 
Prudential redressed Mr V in line with the Pension Review guidelines. And that leads me to 
the conclusion that the PIAOB wouldnt have upheld Mr Vs complaint. Whilst Ive considered 
what our predecessor scheme wouldve done when considering this complaint, I dont think 
under our current rules there is any reason to reach a different result to that of the PIAOB.
Is the redress which Mr V has already received a fair and reasonable outcome?
Ive established that Mr V was redressed in line with the Pension Review guidelines, but I 
also need to consider again, whether this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
One of the central points the barrister made, is that but for the advice Prudential gave Mr V, 
he wouldnt have retired early. And that therefore the review outcome is unfair. The barrister 
says that because of the non-compliant advice Mr V wouldnt have known that taking his 
benefits early would cause him to suffer a loss  when compared to the benefits he couldve 
had at a later date.
However, I think it unlikely that Mr V wouldnt have known that hed get a higher annuity from 
his personal pension if he deferred taking it until he was older. He wouldve received annual 
statements illustrating the potential benefits at his normal retirement age. But he chose to 
take early retirement, thus reducing the annuity he would receive quite substantially.
This suggests he wanted or needed the money in 1996 and so it isnt an unreasonable 
starting point that he might have sought to take benefits from the OPS had he remained 
within it, at the same time or as soon as he was permitted to do so. I think this supports the 
position that it was fair to equate taking his personal pension benefits with taking benefits 
from the OPS. We can never be completely sure what Mr V might have done, if he was in a 
different position of having an OPS instead of a personal pension. I accept his representative 
has a strongly held view that he wouldve acted differently. Its possible that he would have 
done so. But this very possibility was something addressed by the Pensions Review in 
allowing Prudential to make an assumption. And in that light, I think that the review produced 
a fair and reasonable outcome.
Furthermore, when Mr V received the Pension Review offer in 2001 from Prudential it set out 
to him clearly that the offer was made on the assumption that You would have retired from 
your employer's scheme on 24 July 1996. This is the date on which you retired from your 
personal pension.  Whilst I understand the review process is a complex one  that particular 
statement is not difficult to understand for the layman. It was made clear then in 2001 to Mr 
V that the calculation had been carried out on the basis he wouldve retired from his OPS. 
So if Mr V disagreed with this, he had the chance to challenge this then  and Prudential 
gave instructions of how to do so at the time. But Mr V signed in full and final settlement 
accepting the offer on the basis set out. So I think considering this, it would be unfair to say 
decades later that Prudential should offer new redress on a new basis. And when the 
original offer met the guidelines of the time.
Before I conclude this decision, I suspect from the information we have from Prudential that 
its possible that there is no loss in terms of comparing the approach Prudential actually took 
 to do an actual and prospective Loss at the date of the review - with a full prospective Loss approach to Mr Vs normal retirement date. Its important to clarify that Ive not relied on this 
point in making my decision and my decision would be the same regardless.
As I explained earlier, Prudential has shown us that moving the retirement date back each 
year until 56  had the result of the loss reducing. Prudential explained that this was due to 
the fact that Mr V had commuted some of the pension as tax-free cash  therefore lowering 
the value of the annuity  when compared to the increase needed when the GMP became 
payable. Using a later retirement date decreases the past loss part of the calculation. So it 
seems possible and plausible that doing a full prospective loss calculation would not only 
have been contrary to the guidance Prudential was expected to follow but would also have 
resulted in less redress for Mr V. 
Conclusions
I do not uphold this complaint for all the reasons explained in my provisional findings and the 
findings within this decision. A summary of the key points why Ive reached this decision:
I think that the Pension Review was the correct method to redress Mr V in 2001
Prudential carried out the review in line with the Pension Review guidance and it 
addressed Mr Vs circumstances 
Our predecessor scheme the PIAOB likely wouldnt have told Prudential to do 
anything more if the ombudsman was satisfied the offer was made in line with the 
relevant guidance and addressed the circumstances. I think the offer did both
Retirement in the guidance refers to taking benefits and not its more general use
What the SIB described as actual loss (and the PIA described in its technical 
guidance as a combined actual and prospective loss) was the correct method to use 
in these circumstances to calculate the loss
I think it was both right under the Pension Review and fair and reasonable to equate 
Mr Vs taking of personal pension benefits to taking benefits from the OPS
Prudential appear to have used a generous assumption in favour of Mr V when 
carrying out the calculation. And this is in line with the guidance which allows for such 
assumptions.
I think the offer made in 2001 represents a fair and reasonable settlement to the 
complaint 
Mr V accepted the offer in full and final settlement  and the offer letter complied with 
the relevant guidance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman