DRN-3283368
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), have reported 
a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M opened a Virgin credit account and made a balance transfer to it of £10,000 in June 
2019. Over the next three months, Mr M made payments totalling £10,150 to the account, 
which he believed cleared the balance outstanding on the account to zero  although this 
wasnt in fact the case.
Around the same time, Mr M separated from his wife and moved out of the marital home. 
When Mr Ms account fell into arrears, Virgin sent letters for Mr M to this address, but these 
letters werent passed on to him. It wasnt until over a year later that Mr M became aware 
that he hadnt in fact cleared the full balance on this account, by which time the account had 
already been defaulted for non-payment by Virgin.
Mr M contacted Virgin and asked them to remove the default from his credit file, but Virgin 
were unwilling to do so. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Virgin 
looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they felt that they had followed a fair collections process and 
that the default had been applied reasonably to the account. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this account. But while they sympathised with the difficult 
personal circumstances Mr M had experienced, they didnt feel that Virgin had acted unfairly 
in how they managed the arrears on Mr Ms account, including that Virgin had defaulted the 
account for non-payment. Because of this, they also didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its only natural to sympathise with the difficult personal circumstances that Mr M was 
experiencing around the time that he opened this Virgin credit account, which ultimately led 
to Mr M having to move out of the marital home.
However, its notable that the July 2019 statement, which was the first statement sent to Mr 
M following the £10,000 balance transfer in June 2019, clearly showed the £10,000 transfer 
as well as a £400 money transfer fee, for a total outstanding balance at that time of £10,400.
Its therefore difficult to understand why Mr M believed that repayments totalling £10,150 
would have been sufficient to clear the outstanding balance on the account. And while I can 
appreciate how Mr Ms personal circumstances at that time may have led to his not realising 
the amount that he was required to pay to clear the account balance in full here, I cant fairly 
or reasonably say that Virgin have done anything wrong that has materially led to Mr M 
holding this incorrect belief of to him making a lower total payment than was required.
It's also notable that Virgin did try to contact Mr M about the balance that was outstanding on 
his account and the developing arrears when monthly payments from Mr M stopped being 
received. This included that Virgin wrote to the address they held on file for Mr M, as well as 
emailed Mr M and tried to contact him by telephone.
And while I can appreciate that the letters that were received from Virgin to the marital home 
werent passed on to Mr M so that he could read them, Mr M has confirmed that he did 
receive the emails from Virgin, but that he didnt read them as he believed the account 
balance had been cleared in full.
Mr M has stated that he feels Virgin should have made greater efforts to contact him about 
the account. But given that Virgin did make efforts to contact Mr M via several channels, as 
explained above, its difficult to censure Virgin for this or to rationalise what more Virgin 
should have reasonably done.
Ultimately, regardless of his difficult personal circumstances at that time, the responsibility 
for managing the credit account and ensuring that the contractual repayments on the 
account were met, rested with Mr M. And while its correct that Virgin themselves had an 
obligation to try to contact Mr M to make Mr M aware that his account had fallen into arrears, 
Im satisfied that Virgin met those obligations to the degree that would be reasonably 
required of them in this instance. 
All of which means that, while I sympathise with the difficult personal position that Mr M 
found himself in at the time that the arrears on this account first occurred, I dont feel that 
Virgin have acted unfairly towards Mr M in how they managed the arrears on his account, 
including how Virgin eventually defaulted the account when the arrears remained unpaid for 
a significant length of time.
Im aware that Mr M feels that the default on his account is a disproportionately harsh result 
in light of his ability to repay the balance that was outstanding on the account  which I note 
that Mr M did at the first opportunity having been made aware of it. But credit providers such 
as Virgin have an obligation to make accurate reports as to how an individual manages their 
credit commitments, and in this instance, unfortunately, Im satisfied that the reporting of the 
default is a fair and accurate report of how Mr M managed the Virgin account at that time.
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Virgin to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was 
wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman