DRN-3424249
The complaint
Mr M complains that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited (Compass) 
enabled him to transfer his existing pensions before it had given him its 
recommendation and suitability report. And, when it did later send its report, it 
advised Mr M against transferring.
What happened
Mr M, an experienced financial adviser, contacted Compass to discuss potentially 
transferring his two final salary pensions (OPS) and a defined contribution (DC) 
pension. Apparently, at the point that he got in touch with Compass, Mr M had already 
received a transfer value (which was only guaranteed for a specific amount of time) for 
at least one of his OPS and had contacted a couple of other firms, but hadnt received 
advice.
According to Compass notes, Mr M was a personal friend and former colleague of a 
senior employee at Compass who then put him in touch with one of its specialist 
pension advisers. Compass said it would treat Mr M as a retail client, otherwise if it 
treated him as a professional client, hed lose certain protections given to retail clients.
In an online fact find, Mr M confirmed:
he was age 44;
he was separated and had three financial dependants;
he had an annual income of £80,000 a year and received a regular bonus of
£20,000;
his monthly net income was around £4,700 and his expenditure around £4,000;
hed like to retire at age 55, but he may decide to work beyond that age or 
work part time.
He also:
owned his own property valued at £200,000;
had savings of £25,000;
had various in service benefits including death cover of £960,000 and critical 
illness cover of £100,000.
Compass noted that Mr M had the following pensions with a total combined transfer value of 
£466,033.08, broken down as follows:
two final salary pensions with transfer values of £217,827 and £85,497 
respectively.
a defined contribution (money purchase) pension with a transfer value of
£162,709.08 (made up of a credit and investment account).
Attached to an email dated 22 October 2015, Compass sent Mr M discharge forms to 
complete to transfer his final salary pension with a provider Ill refer to as S. (The 
transfer value was only guaranteed until 4 November 2015). Compass said a 
recommendations report will follow in due course but due to S timescales, the transfer 
process needed to be started as soon as possible. Compass managed to secure the 
guaranteed transfer value by the deadline. A new personal pension took effect from 27 
November 2015.
Compass also arranged the transfer of two of Mr Ms other pensions, the funds from 
which were deposited into his new personal pension in March and April 2016 
respectively.
Mr M and Compass had an email exchange on 6 April 2016 primarily aimed at 
discussing fees. However, Mr M also said I do agree that I will manage the investments 
going forward.
In an email dated 22 April 2016, the adviser confirmed that the final pension transfer 
was complete. She added that the report was with Compass compliance team and 
would be sent to Mr M once it has passed. She also pointed out that Mr M should 
have received the execution only letter along with forms relating to structured 
products.
In May 2016 (once the transfers had already been completed) Compass noted further 
details about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives:
he wanted to consolidate his existing plans and manage the investments himself;
he felt the death benefits under a personal pension represented much better value;
it was very important for him to retire at age 60 as was avoiding taxes;
hed be looking to withdraw money from his investments in 11 years or more.
When describing his attitude to risk, Mr M said that if he were to lose on his investment 
while I wouldnt be pleased, I do not rely on this money for my current household 
expenses and it would not have a significant effect on my overall finances. Out of a 
range of potential portfolios, Mr M indicated he was most suited to one that potentially 
had higher losses and gains. And he indicated that he understood investments can 
have occasional negative annual returns. In which case he said hed stick with his 
investments as hed have a higher chance of reaching his investment goals.
In an internal email dated 18 May 2016, Compass indicated it was not in a position to 
advise Mr M about the pension transfers under self-management.
Compass prepared a pensions recommendations report dated 23 May 2016, which it 
sent to Mr M on 6 June 2016 (around one/two months after the last of his pensions had 
been transferred). Amongst Mr Ms objectives, Compass noted that he wanted to transfer 
his final salary pensions to a personal pension. So, he wanted a pensions specialist to 
review these and carry out the transaction. Compass also noted that Mr M then wanted 
to select and manage his own investment funds. Ultimately, Compass concluded that it 
couldnt recommend Mr M transfer his pensions. It felt the critical yield probably was 
achievable with the aid of active management. But, as Mr M had some time before 
retirement, it felt it more sensible for him to wait as he had no pressing need to transfer at 
that point. Another factor in its recommendation not to transfer was because Compass 
couldnt say how achievable the critical yield would be if Mr M managed his own funds.
The adviser told Mr M that in the end she was happy to recommend a pension 
transfer, but Compass compliance team werent happy that Mr M would be making his 
own investment decisions. So, Compass felt it had to complete the report on an 
insistent client basis. It asked Mr M to send it a handwritten letter indicating hed 
wanted to transfer his pensions in any event.
Mr M responded and said he was a bit confused. He said that in the email the adviser mentioned she was happy to recommend a transfer but in the report said things like we 
feel that it would be sensible to postpone a transfer until nearer that time, as you have 
no pressing need for a transfer at this time. Mr M described the situation as a bit of a 
mess really. He said hed been sent the suitability report about six months after the first 
transfer. And he should have had Compass recommendations before the transfers went 
ahead.
The adviser apologised for any confusion caused. She added that Compass wouldn't 
normally process things in this way but did so on that occasion because Mr M was 
friends with one of Compass senior employees.
Compass chased Mr M for his insistent client letter during June 2016. Despite 
indicating that hed draft the letter, Compass continued to chase him for it until at least 
the end of July 2016.
Mr M later complained to Compass about the advice hed received. It didnt uphold 
the complaint. Amongst its reasons for saying so, Compass said:
Mr M was an experienced financial adviser and held the G60 qualification (Mr 
M has since confirmed he didnt hold that qualification);
it felt he had a good working knowledge of pensions and had been 
involved in pension transfers for his own clients;
Mr M was already of the mind to commence transferring his pension benefits 
and therefore gave the go ahead to proceed, especially as the transfer value 
quoted was only valid until 4 November 2015;
Mr M would have been aware of the process and the complexities involved 
including the potential risks and implications associated with defined benefit 
pension transfers. Yet he didnt query at any point why the transfers were 
going ahead without the suitability report having been issued. Although it noted 
that Mr M never anticipated the possibility that the recommendation would be 
not to transfer.
Mr M wasnt happy with Compass response so he complained to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it because she didnt think 
Compass advice was suitable.
Mr M accepted the investigators assessment, but Compass didnt. It provided 
extensive comments, some of which were similar to those it made directly to Mr M. 
Amongst other things it also said:
it could have refused to proceed with the transfers until such time as it 
produced a suitability report. However, it said this would likely have been at a 
cost to Mr M due to the possibility of lower transfer values being received if the 
transfers hadnt gone ahead when they did;
it felt there was sufficient evidence in Mr Ms case to support the decision to 
proceed;
Mr Ms personal pension had performed well in the circumstances and had 
given him more flexibility concerning his ongoing financial needs and in line 
with his financial objectives.
Compass asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman. So, its been passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional findings
I sent Mr M and Compass my provisional findings on 30 March 2022. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below:Having done so, Im also intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
What was Compass required to do?
The regulator places important obligations on firms. Those include the overarching 
principles for businesses, which include:
Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 - skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers 
interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care.
A firms specific responsibilities will, to a certain extent, depend on the type of service its 
giving the client. So, for instance, in an execution only situation, the client will normally 
give the business a specific instruction and wont expect to receive advice. But therell 
be other things that the business is still required to do such as making sure that the 
client understands the features of a product hes likely to invest in and any risks 
involved.
The Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out specific obligations when giving 
advice. Those include (but are not limited to) making it clear that firms like Compass are 
required to take reasonable steps to ensure any personal recommendations are suitable 
for their client. That means theyre typically required to find out about their knowledge 
and experience (relevant to the specific type of investment); their financial situation and 
investment objectives.
As well, businesses should gather enough information to ensure the recommendation 
meets the customers objectives; the customer can bear the risks involved; and has the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks.
But there are other requirements when advising a client about potentially transferring out 
of a defined benefit (often final salary) OPS (these are set out in more detail in COBs 
19.1.6G). Thats because those types of pensions typically come with various valuable 
and guaranteed benefits. The regulator says that when advising retail clients about 
transferring out of a defined benefit OPS, the firm should start from the position of 
assuming it wont be suitable unless it can clearly demonstrate whether its in their best 
interests overall.
On top of that, the regulators made it clear that a firm shouldnt be giving advice unless 
its also able to comment on the suitability of the underlying investments.
Given the quite different approaches and expectations set by the regulator, its important 
that the firm understands the level of service a client is seeking. And that its clear about 
whether thats the kind of service it can offer. And if it cant, the firm is within its rights to 
say that it cant help and walk away.
Did Compass give Mr M suitable advice?
In short, no I dont think it did. I think its worth saying here that had Compass 
given Mr M its suitability report in advance of the transfers happening, Id likely 
have agreed with some of what it said. For instance, I too could see no compelling 
reason for Mr M to transfer his pensions at the points he did  he was age 44 at 
the time, in good health and in a good overall financial position. So, Id agree that 
leaving his pensions where they were seemed to be the right advice as he had no 
pressing need to change anything. That said, I also realise that, on the basis 
Compass wouldnt have been able to vouch for the suitability of the underlying 
investments (because Mr M wanted to manage them himself) its possible it would 
have said, at the time, that it couldnt help Mr M. Or it might have insisted that it 
needed to give him advice on the investments too.But the fact of the matter is that Compass did enable Mr M to transfer three existing 
pensions with a combined transfer value of over £460,000 without giving him clear 
advice or a recommendation. At times it almost seemed that Compass was confused 
about whether it was treating Mr M as an execution only client. And I think thats borne 
out in some of the language it used too.
But Im satisfied from everything Ive seen that Mr M was expecting to receive advice  
and I think Compass itself accepts that position too. So, that being the case, I cant fairly 
say that Compass did what was expected by taking proper account of Mr Ms 
circumstances or demonstrating that it was acting in his best interests. But the fact that it 
also wasnt able to comment on the underlying investments meant that it didnt satisfy 
the regulators requirements in that respect either. And whilst I accept that it did 
eventually give a recommendation with some reasoning (albeit not in terms of the 
underlying investments and after the event) that effectively becomes immaterial if the 
transfer has already happened.
Compass has since made a number of detailed points to demonstrate why it thought it 
was reasonable for it to advise Mr M in the way it did - to press ahead without being 
given a suitability report. Those include that there would probably otherwise have been 
a detriment to Mr M in terms of the transfer values potentially reducing. In the same 
way that Mr M was clearly enticed by a transfer value hed received in relation to at 
least one of his OPS, it seems Compass became enticed by the prospect of securing 
that value for him.
But Im not persuaded by its argument here. I think Compass ought to have known that 
when advising on a potential pension transfer, it was required to understand all of Mr Ms 
needs and aims. Those included (but were not limited to) why he was looking to invest; 
his income needs in retirement and, importantly, whether his needs could be met through 
his existing pension arrangements. And all of this needed to happen before the transfer 
took place. So, the risk of not securing a preferential transfer value isnt a compelling 
reason to go ahead in these circumstances. I say that especially as until it fully explored 
what Mr M wanted to do, I dont think Compass would even have known if it was 
something it could help with. And, as the evidence shows, that problem did in fact 
materialise when Compass eventually looked into things as it should have done at the 
outset.
Im not sure that the fact Mr M was a personal friend and former colleague of a senior 
employee at Compass holds much weight overall either. Its certainly possible that the 
process Compass followed was less formal because of Mr Ms position. And Mr M may 
have been fairly comfortable with that whilst he believed Compass would be 
recommending a transfer. But I can certainly appreciate why not receiving a report 
became more pertinent as soon as Mr M realised that Compass wasnt recommending a 
transfer. But, as far as I understand things, the adviser wasnt previously known to Mr M. 
So, I think she had the same professional responsibility to do the right thing and 
demonstrate that shed acted in Mr Ms best interests as she would for any other client. 
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im not satisfied that Compass did that.
Compass has also argued that, as an experienced financial adviser, Mr M ought to have 
known of the risks of transferring out of defined benefit pensions to a personal pension. 
It also makes the point that he had more than a basic understanding of pensions. As an 
experienced financial adviser, albeit not a pensions specialist, I accept that its entirely 
possible Mr M had more of an understanding of pensions than an average retail client. 
But an important point to note here is that Compass told Mr M it would treat him as a 
retail client. So, regardless of any financial experience that he had, I think Mr M was 
entitled to rely on Compass to give him suitable advice. Especially as he was paying 
Compass for that service. And, in addition, by referring Mr M to a pensions specialist (as opposed to a different type of financial adviser) I think Compass had already accepted 
that Mr M would need advice. So, I dont find its arguments here persuasive either. And, 
in these circumstances it was for Compass to give Mr M suitable advice, at the 
appropriate time, that took account of his personal circumstances and investment aims.
Another point that Compass has made is that Mr Ms investments have actually 
performed well and have probably given him the flexibility he was looking for. Whilst it 
might be the case that his investments have performed well, Im well aware that the 
position could quite easily change. But in any event, that alone wouldnt make an 
unsuitable advice process and recommendation suddenly become suitable. And the fact 
remains that by transferring his OPS in particular, Mr M will likely have lost various 
guaranteed and valuable benefits. And the impact of that is yet to be seen.
The upshot of its approach is that Compass gave Mr M the impression that it was willing 
to support pension transfers. So, Mr M went ahead on the strength of what Compass led 
him to believe. But hes since found out that Compass didnt recommend the transfers 
after all. And Compass has since tried to treat Mr M as an insistent client retrospectively. 
The definition of an insistent client is one who, having received clear advice not to 
transfer, goes against the advice. But thats not what happened here. So, I dont agree 
with Compass approach in these particular circumstances either.
Would Mr M have gone ahead anyway?
A key consideration in a case like this is whether Mr M would have gone ahead 
with a transfer even if hed been given suitable advice at the right time.
Ive thought very carefully about this. And, on balance, I dont think he would.
I accept that Mr M had already requested at least one transfer value and approached 
two other firms before he contacted Compass. So, Id probably be inclined to agree 
that, initially at least, Mr M was of the mind to transfer his pensions. But theres a world 
of difference between being of the mind to do something and making an informed 
decision once suitable advice is received.
And the fact that Mr M had approached other firms and not taken things further might 
even be indicative of the fact that, having considered what Mr M wanted to do, those 
firms didnt feel able to support him. Its entirely possible that had Compass acted in a 
similar way, Mr M might not have done anything more about this.
But the fact remains that, Mr M paid Compass for specific pensions advice and it didnt 
do what it was required to do. Mr M clearly understands the importance of a suitability 
report in an advice process. And hes gone as far as saying that the suitability report is 
considered decisive when understanding if a transfer should go ahead. So, I think its 
reasonable to assume that, if hed had any cause to think that Compass would be 
advising against transferring, hed have insisted on seeing the suitability report first. And 
Compass itself seems to recognise that Mr M couldnt have been expected to foresee 
that it would later say, after the event, that it didnt recommend transferring. Taking 
account of Mr Ms circumstances at the time; his profession; and the fact that most 
people whove approached an expert for specialist advice would be willing to listen, on 
balance, I think Mr M would have followed Compass advice if it had told him in clear 
terms, at the right time, that it didnt recommend pension transfers.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
OPS transfers
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider 
he would have remained in the occupational schemes. Compass must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in it s Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance 
for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Compass may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the 
date Compass receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 
days, that it takes Compass to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
DC pension transfer
In addition to the above, Mr M transferred out of a defined contribution pension plan. So, 
Ive set out below what I think Compass needs to do to put things right in respect of that.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he 
would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have remained with his previous provider, however I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Compass do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Compass must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with the notional value if it 
had remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than 
the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Compass should add interest as set out below:
Compass should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Compass is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim 
any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age, which is 
assumed to be 20%.
However, if Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
This matter has clearly been a source of concern for Mr M. So, to recognise 
that, I think Compass should pay him £250 compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Compass deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Compass should give Mr 
M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
DC transfer Still exists Notional Date of Date of my 8% simple
portion of the and liquid value from investment final decision per year on
portfolio with previous any loss from
T provider the end date
to the date of
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr M's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the  
end date. Compass should request that the previous provider calculate this value.Any withdrawal from the plan should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, Ill accept if Compass totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Compass will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr M's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the 
notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I 
consider the measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited should provide 
details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
My provisional decision
Im intending to uphold this complaint.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business 
to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend 
the business pay the balance.
Determination and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as 
set out above. My decision is that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited 
should pay Mr M the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest 
on the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited pays Mr M the balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited. It is unlikely that Mr M can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Compass said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M accepted my provisional decision and Compass had no additional points to make, I 
see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited now needs to settle the complaint as I 
set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman