DRN-2417836
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) removed their excess 
waiver and increased their premiums by an unreasonable amount.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had buildings and contents insurance with Hiscox. The policy was in joint 
names but because she dealt with the complaint, and for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs C 
throughout my decision.
Mrs C had home insurance with Hiscox for many years and at her policy renewal in 2017 it 
gave her an excess waiver in recognition of her loyalty. She made a claim in that policy year, 
which Hiscox settled. The excess waiver continued at the next renewal and Mrs C made 
another claim, which Hiscox settled. At the next renewal, in 2019, she saw that Hiscox had 
reinstated an excess and increased her premiums significantly.
Mrs C complained to Hiscox because she had understood the waiver would remain on her 
policy indefinitely. She thought it had penalised her for the two low value claims by 
increasing her premium more than it wouldve done for other customers. Hiscox explained 
why it removed the waiver and said it would look into adjusting the premium if Mrs C wanted 
to increase or decrease the excess on her policy. Mrs C remained unhappy.
Our investigator didnt think Hiscox had done anything wrong. She looked at the reasons 
Hiscox gave for reinstating the waiver, and she thought it had given a fair explanation for its 
decision. Our investigator also looked into the premiums over the years Mrs C had the policy 
and found changes in her circumstances warranted an increase.
Mrs C didnt agree, and she asked for a comparison of premium increases with other Hiscox 
customers and other insurers.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain.
There are two key issues here  the excess waiver and the increase in premiums.
Excess Waiver
Mrs C understood the waiver would remain in place as long as she remained a loyal 
customer. Hiscox said it removed the waiver because of Mrs Cs claims history.
Hiscox first introduced the excess waiver at Mrs Cs policy renewal, stating:
As a thank you for being one of our most loyal customers, we will remove your excess on 
buildings and contents cover as of your renewal date. So, should you need to make a claim 
related to these covers after your renewal date, you will no longer pay an excess.
While Hiscox doesnt say when or if it will remove the waiver, theres nothing in the letter to 
suggest that its a permanent offer. 
Mrs C made a small value accidental damage claim during that policy year and Hiscox left 
the excess waiver in place at the following renewal. Mrs C then made a second small value 
accidental damage claim in the next policy year. At renewal, Hiscox reintroduced the excess. 
Mrs C says Hiscox didnt warn her that it would remove the waiver, or why, leaving her no 
time to arrange a different policy. Ive looked at the policy renewal letter, issued 16 days 
before the policy start date, and I can see that Hiscox said:
Your excess has changed
We have made some changes to your excess, (which is the first amount you pay for any one 
claim). This change has been made [due] to your recent claims experience. Please review 
your schedule carefully to familiarise yourself with the excess that applies to each section of 
cover.
Mrs C was aware of the claims shed made, and the renewal letter was issued with time to 
look for alternative cover. So, I cant agree that Hiscox didnt tell her it was removing the 
excess waiver and why.
Increase in Premiums
Mrs C thinks Hiscox increased her premium more than it shouldve done and more than it 
had for other customers. Both Hiscox and Mrs C are aware of the policy premium for the 
years leading up to the complaint, so I wont list them again here. In summary, the premium 
almost doubled over ten years. However, during that time, the premium reduced on one 
occasion and on other occasions Mrs C increased her cover. So, the premium increased 
partly with a change in circumstances. 
I can see that Mrs C engaged with Hiscox at each renewal, negotiating a price reduction 
when she could. And I can see that Hiscox reminded her at each renewal that other insurers 
may offer cover which better suits her needs. So, I dont think Hiscox increased the 
premiums unfairly or without drawing Mrs Cs attention to the increases.
While Mrs C asked for a comparison with other Hiscox customers and other insurers, my 
remit is to look at what happened with her policy and how Hiscox handled it. Premiums are 
set based on individual risk so a direct comparison with other customers or insurers wont 
generally be appropriate.
Overall, I think Hiscox provided Mrs C with a reasonable amount of information so that she 
could make an informed decision at each renewal, and I havent seen any evidence to 
indicate that it unfairly increased her premiums and removed the excess waiver.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman