DRN-3721468
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Coutts & Company has refused to remove him from a joint mortgage 
account. Mr M is also unhappy that Coutts granted a payment holiday and a new interest 
rate product on the account without his consent.
To settle the complaint, Mr M wants Coutts to remove him from the mortgage, amend his 
credit file and pay him compensation.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over a thousand pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Furthermore, the history of the matter is set out in correspondence between the parties, and 
in the investigators letter dated 14 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there 
is no need for me to repeat the entire history here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2011 Mr M took out a mortgage with Coutts, jointly with his wife, Mrs M, from whom he is 
now divorced. In 2017, as part of their divorce, Mr M was ordered to transfer all his legal and 
beneficial interest in the property to Mrs M, subject to the mortgage. He was also ordered to 
indemnify Mrs M for the monthly mortgage payments until such time as certain other 
conditions ordered by the court had been fulfilled. (I do not know if those conditions have 
been met, but nothing turns on this in relation to this complaint.)
In 2018 Mr M was declared bankrupt, and was discharged from his bankruptcy in 2019. The 
Trustee in bankruptcy has confirmed that, because the court had ordered the transfer of the 
property prior to Mr Ms bankruptcy, it didnt form part of his bankrupt estate. In March 2021 
the court suspended Mr Ms obligation to indemnify Mrs M for the mortgage payments.
Mr Ms complaint to Coutts is that:
the bank refuses to remove him from the mortgage account;
a COVID payment holiday was agreed with Mrs M without his consent;
a new interest rate product was taken out by Mrs M, again without his consent.
Coutts didnt uphold the complaint. Although the bank acknowledges Mr M isnt liable for the 
mortgage, the bank says it is under no obligation to remove him from the account. In relation 
to the payment holiday and new product, Coutts said it was reasonable to take this action.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. She was satisfied that it was reasonable for Coutts to have granted the payment 
holiday and to apply a new interest rate product to the account, because neither of these had 
caused any detriment to Mr M.
However, she thought Coutts should remove Mr M from the mortgage account, because he 
has no liability for it and so it is unfair for this to still show on his credit file. The investigator 
also asked Coutts to pay Mr M compensation of £350.
Neither party agreed with the investigators outcome, so it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Removal of Mr M from the mortgage: 
Coutts has accepted the Mr M has no liability for the mortgage. The title to the property is in 
the sole name of Mrs M.
The right to enforce the security in the event of discharge from bankruptcy is preserved by 
section 281(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986. However, section 281(1) says that where a 
bankrupt is discharged, the discharge releases him from all the bankruptcy debts.. At the 
time of his bankruptcy, Mr M had no beneficial interest in the property, and he no longer has 
any liability for the mortgage debt.
Given this, I find it is unfair and unreasonable for Coutts to refuse to remove Mr M from the 
mortgage account. Hes not liable for the repayments or any shortfall debt should Mrs M 
default, and so keeping him on the mortgage account is of no benefit to Coutts. But it is of 
considerable detriment to Mr M, as this mortgage still shows on his credit file. In all the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Coutts should remove Mr M from the mortgage account. 
Any legal issues arising from their divorce about whether or not Mr M should indemnify 
Mrs M for the mortgage repayments are, of course, between them, and dont involve either 
Coutts or this service.
I also think its unreasonable, given what I have said above, for Coutts to continue reporting 
data about this mortgage on Mr Ms credit file. Mr Ms credit file should show the mortgage 
as defaulted on the date of the bankruptcy and settled on the date of the discharge.
Payment holiday: I find it was reasonable for Coutts to grant a payment holiday on the 
account, due to the pandemic. I cant see that Mr M has been caused any detriment by this, 
as it wasnt reported on his credit file (as per guidance from the regulator), and it is Mrs M, 
not Mr M, who is responsible for making the payments in any event. I dont uphold this part 
of the complaint.New interest rate product: In October 2021 a new mortgage product was taken out, which 
resulted in reduced payments on the account. There was no fee added, and the new product 
is not subject to any early repayment charge. Therefore the overall debt has not increased. 
I find there was no detriment to Mr M in Coutts offering this product to Mrs M, but Coutts 
cant have it both ways  if Mr M is on the account he should be informed of what is going 
on. Coutts should have told Mr M what was happening in relation to the new product, given 
that the bank still considers him to be an account holder.
I think Mr M has been caused trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience by Coutts actions, 
and so a payment of compensation is appropriate. I endorse the investigators 
recommendation of £350, as I think this is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the 
circumstances. Ive noted what Mr M has said about the difficulties hes been caused 
because the mortgage is on his credit file. But Im not persuaded that this is the only reason 
why Mr M hasnt been able to make certain financial arrangements. In the circumstances, 
Im not ordering any increased compensation for trouble and upset.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I direct Coutts to do the following:
remove Mr M from the mortgage account;
amend Mr Ms credit file to show the mortgage as defaulted at the date of his bankruptcy 
and settled at the date of discharge;
pay compensation of £350 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Coutts & Company to settle the complaint as directed above. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman