DRN-2645152
The complaint
Mr A complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans failed to tell him 
about its decision to default his loan. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr A took out a loan with Likely Loans. After a couple of months, payments 
were returned unpaid and arrears began to build. Mr A and Likely Loans agreed a number of 
payment arrangements over the following months but the arrears increased after payments 
were missed. 
At the beginning of November 2019 Mr A made two payments, partially reducing the arrears 
on the loan. But no further payments were made and Likely Loans says it sent Mr A a default 
notice on 24 December 2019, explaining it would close and default the loan if he didnt repay 
the arrears. Mr A has explained he didnt receive the default notice. 
In early January 2020 Mr A agreed a new payment arrangement with Likely Loans but says 
he wasnt told about the default notice sent previously. Mr A agreed to pay £250 a month 
from 31 January 2020. Likely Loans received the first payment on 3 February 2020 and the 
next payment was due on 29 February 2020 but wasnt received. 
Likely Loans says that as the payment due on 29 February 2020 wasnt made the 
arrangement failed. As a result, it took the decision to close and default the loan account on 
5 March 2020. 
On 9 March 2020 Mr A called Likely Loans and said he had made a manual payment that 
day. A payment arrangement was discussed but Mr A made a payment to clear the 
remaining arrears. At the end of the call, the advisor said Mr As loan had been defaulted on 
5 May 2020. 
On 11 March 2020 Mr A spoke with Likely Loans again. During this call Likely Loans made it 
clear that the loan had defaulted on 5 March 2020. Mr A complained and explained he 
wasnt aware of the default notice send in December 2019.
Likely Loans didnt agree that it had made an error when it defaulted Mr As loan. 
Over the months that followed, Mr A discussed partial settlements with Likely Loans and 
agreed a figure in August 2020. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Likely Loans decision to default the loan was reasonable and that it had dealt with Mr As 
complaint fairly. Mr A asked to appeal and said Likely Loans had made an error as he hadnt 
received the default notice it sent in December 2019. Mr A also said he had subsequently 
agreed a payment arrangement but hadnt been told about the default notice. Mr A has told 
us theres no evidence the default notice was sent to him. 
Mr A also said he had made the first payment due in under the January 2020 payment 
arrangement on time and that, in February 2020, he had received a Notice of Sums in 
Arrears which was confusing. Mr A also said Likely Loans continued to apply interest and 
charges to his debt after the loan was terminated and defaulted. Mr A also said he felt forced 
to agree a partial settlement with Likely Loans despite the original term ending in April 2021. 
Mr A sent us a detailed email requesting an appeal and also discussed his concerns with the 
investigator at length. 
As Mr A asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr A for the level of detail hes given in his submissions. Ive read and 
considered everything Mr A and Likely Loans have sent us in relation to this complaint, 
including Mr As responses to the investigator. Ive also listened to Mr As calls with both 
Likely Loans and the investigator. I can see Mr A has made lots of detailed points about his 
case. Im going to focus on what I feel are the key issues regarding the outcome of Mr As 
complaint. If I dont specifically comment on something Mr A or Likely Loans has said it isnt 
because I havent considered it. I hope Mr A wont take this as a discourtesy, my approach 
reflects the informal nature of this service. 
One of Mr As key concerns is that he wasnt aware Likely Loans sent him a default notice 
on 24 December 2019. Mr A says theres nothing to show the default notice was sent. But 
Likely Loans, in turn, has provided a copy of the letter it sent Mr A and a copy of its system 
notes that shows it was sent to him on 24 December 2019. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened between the parties concerned, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
based on all the available information. 
In this case, I dont agree with Mr A that theres nothing to show Likely Loans sent him a 
default notice. We have a copy of the default notice dated 24 December 2019 that is 
correctly addressed. We also have systems information that shows a default notice was sent 
to Mr A on 24 December 2019. I also think its reasonable to note that it was sent after a 
payment arrangement Mr A agreed in October 2019 failed because the payment due at the 
beginning of December 2019 wasnt made. The arrears on the account at this stage was 
significant and at a level where Likely Loans was able to take the decision to end the 
agreement. 
Taking all of the above information into account, I think its more likely that Likely Loans did 
take the decision to default Mr As loan and wrote to him on 24 December 2019 with the 
relevant notice. So whilst I understand Mr A has told us the default notice wasnt received, 
Im satisfied, on balance, Likely Loans did send it to him as claimed. I havent found that 
Likely Loans failed to send Mr A the default notice as its required to do. 
Mr A says he wasnt told about the default notice on 8 January 2020 when he called to agree 
a payment arrangement. Ive listened to the call and agree the default notice wasnt 
discussed. But, I wouldnt expect the call handler to have specifically talked about the default 
notice as Mr A said he wanted to agree a payment arrangement to repay the outstanding 
arrears. Likely Loans went on to set up a payment plan and Mr A agreed to make payments 
of £250 each month from that point. The first payment due under the arrangement was received by Likely Loans, but the second 
payment, due on 29 February 2020, was not. As the payment due under the payment 
arrangement for 29 February 2020 wasnt made on time, Likely Loans says it took the 
decision to close and default the loan account on 5 March 2020. Given the level of arrears 
on the account at this stage and that the second payment due under the payment 
arrangement wasnt made as agreed, I think the decision to close the account and report a 
default was reasonable. 
During Mr As call with Likely Loans on 9 March 2020 he advised a payment of £474 had 
been made that day, but it wasnt showing as being received at that point. Mr A went on to 
repay the remaining arrears over the phone. I understand Mr A is concerned that the 
payment of £474 took some time to credit his loan because it was made by transfer. But by 
this point the decision to close and default the loan had already been taken. I havent found 
that a delay in receiving Mr As transfer of £474 impacted Likely Loans actions in this case. 
I think the call handler on 9 March 2020 couldve made the situation clearer to Mr A. During 
the call, she discussed other arrangements and Mr A made a substantial payment to clear 
his arrears. It was only at the end of the call that the handler mentioned the account was in 
default. And she gave the date as 5 May 2020, not March. 
When Mr A spoke with Likely Loans on 11 March 2020 it explained the loan was closed and 
defaulted. I appreciate Mr A was upset at Likely Loans decision and has told us he intended 
to clear the arrears and repay the loan at this point. But, Im satisfied Likely Loans explained 
the position during this call. 
Ive reviewed a screen shot that indicates Mr A had funds available on 2 March 2020 to clear 
the arrears. But, by this point, the payment arrangement had already failed. And Mr A didnt 
contact Likely Loans to make a payment or clear the arrears until 9 March 2020 by which 
time the loan had already been closed and defaulted. 
Mr A has said he received a Notice of Sum in Arrears in February 2020 which caused further 
confusion. The letter was sent on 1 February 2020 because, at this point, Mr As payment 
due on 31 January 2020 hadnt been received. Lenders have to send these letters when 
accounts are in arrears. When Mr As payment was received by Likely Loans on 3 February 
2020, it meant the payment arrangement continued. Mr A also says he didnt receive a letter 
to say the default had been registered. But Im satisfied Likely Loans sent Mr A the default 
notice on 24 December 2019, as required under the rules. 
Mr A says Likely Loans continued to apply interest and charges to his account after the loan 
was terminated. But Ive looked at the loan statement and no further interest or charges were 
applied after 5 March 2020. 
Mr A has told us he felt pressured into agreeing a partial settlement with Likely Loans and 
that he wasnt due to repay the balance in full until April 2021. Once the loan was 
terminated, the original agreement and term ceased to apply. That meant the end date was 
no longer April 2021. Ive listened to Mr As calls available and looked at the contact notes 
during which the partial settlement was discussed but didnt find he was unfairly pressurised. 
I can see a number of settlement quotes were discussed with Mr A from April 2020 onwards 
and I understand the complaint response was outstanding. But Likely Loans final response 
was issued at the beginning of June 2020 and Mr A settled the balance towards the end of 
August 2020. I havent been persuaded the settlement was delayed by Likely Loans. And I 
can see Likely Loans agreed to accept a partial settlement, waiving around £1,300 of 
interest. I dont agree Likely Loans treated Mr A unfairly when considering the partial 
settlement of his loan. When consumers are in financial difficulties businesses should treat them positively and 
sympathetically. In this case, I think Likely Loans did that. Several payment arrangements 
were agreed and not kept to. The decision to send a default notice was taken after 
significant arrears had built on the account and no payment had been received for several 
weeks. Likely Loans agreed a final payment arrangement but it was broken because the 
payment due on 29 February 2020 wasnt made in time. I think the decision to terminate the 
loan agreement at this point was fair given the account history. 
I agree that Likely Loans took longer than normal to respond to Mr As complaint and that 
some of the information given by its advisors couldve been clearer. In addition, Likely Loans 
accepts it failed to call Mr A back as promised and has apologised. Whilst there were some 
issues Likely Loans couldve handled better, I dont think they impacted the point at which 
the loan was closed and defaulted or Mr As overall position. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But as Im 
satisfied Likely Loans decision to default his loan was reasonable and that it dealt with Mr 
As complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman