DRN-3703620
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around November 2015, Mr and Mrs G were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs G decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In January 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Gs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs G to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments and 
electricity cost savings; and
the cost of the system would break-even within seven years; and
the FIT payments would be received on a monthly basis.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response, so the CMC referred Mr and Mrs Gs complaint to 
this service to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator thought that the FIT payments and 
electricity cost savings generated were significantly lower than those estimated by P. And as 
a consequence, thought that P had misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs G. Our 
investigator thought that as section 75 of the Act applied, Shawbrook should recalculate Mr 
and Mrs Gs original loan to ensure the cost of the system installed would be cost neutral 
over the 15-year term of the loan.
Shawbrook responded to our investigators findings. They said:
They would ask P to inspect the system installed but suggest Mr and Mrs G had 
never previously raised concerns about underperformance with P; and
Mrs and Mrs Gs original complaint to P  states they thought the FIT payments would 
cover or contribute and in some cases pay extra, which is contrary to their 
argument they were told it would be self-funding.
it is equally likely (and if not more likely) Mr and Mrs G were told that their FIT 
payments would contribute towards their monthly repayments as this is supported by 
the sales documentation.
The CMC didnt formally respond to our investigators view but did provide the following 
further comments:
Our clients would like to include that their latest FIT payment was £39.65 which is 
less than half a months finance payment, and although this is a winter payment it still 
falls well short of what they were told would be a self-funding scheme; and
our clientbelieves they were pressured into buying finance with the solar panels as 
a mere vehicle for the finance.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs G could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs G and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
Where theres a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC. These include the credit 
agreement and solar quote, entitled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, 
along with Mr and Mrs Gs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The Solar Quote
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs G, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Ive also noted that the CMCs letter of complaint to Shawbrook appears to support that the 
quote formed a central part of the sales process. The letter of complaint says:
Our clients were left with a Personal Solar Quotation...
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and Mrs 
Gs version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. It also clearly 
sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were told that the cost of the system was £8,150. 
The quote sets this out clearly. This is supported by the credit agreement, although this sets 
out that the cash price of the system was £8,100. I dont consider the small difference to be 
material in this case. The monthly payment was £89.98. The total amount of credit was 
£8,100 and it goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £15,835.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Gs recollections, Im satisfied they 
were told there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear and is 
set out in a table on page 10 of the quote under the heading Repayments. Overall, Im 
satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that 
although the cost of the system to be financed was £8,100, it would cost Mr and Mrs G more 
than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Self-funding
Ive considered whether P told Mr and Mrs G that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table entitled Repayments on page 10 of the solar quote which sets out the 
estimated average monthly income from the system, and the effect on that income when 
subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to 
understand and on balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the 
meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson didnt make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs G were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the systems performance over 20 years. This 
suggests that the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs G could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement by the early part of year 16. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs G that the system would pay for 
itself early in year 16. And this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that 
were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter 
into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
System performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs G. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,339 kWh a year. Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Gs FIT 
statements and can see that their system, on average, has generated 2,547 kWh a year. 
This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im persuaded that the 
system doesnt appear to be performing as expected.
When our investigator highlighted this to Shawbrook, they undertook to arrange for P to 
inspect the system in order to establish why it wasnt performing as intended. The CMC 
subsequently confirmed that the system was inspected on 15 July 2022. But despite further 
requests, Shawbrook havent responded with the findings from that inspection.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
persuaded that the system installed at Mr and Mrs Gs home isnt performing at the level 
suggested by P in their sales presentation and as detailed within the solar quote. And as this 
amounts to a misrepresentation, I believe that any redress should reflect this.
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from Mr and Mrs Gs home. Rather, I 
think the fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs G in a position where the panels are self-
funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs G to keep the panels, I am 
satisfied that they will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going 
forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has finished). 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were misled into thinking that the solar panels would 
ultimately be self-funding and so on that basis I need to decide fair compensation. When 
thinking about that question, I think its fair to take account of the electricity generated by the 
solar panel units. 
On the one hand Mr and Mrs G have to pay their loan and for any electricity used in addition 
to that generated by the system. And on the other, they can off-set those payments by the 
FIT payments and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the system. It 
would be unfair to ignore the electricity generated and used by Mr and Mrs G when 
calculating fair compensation. 
Shawbrook have previously submitted a methodology to this service to calculate the total 
benefits of the system. Its based upon the actual performance and estimated future 
performance of Mr and Mrs Gs system. The proposed approach to put things right for Mr 
and Mrs G is to make the system self-funding over the original term of the loan.  Once the 
loan has been repaid, Mr and Mrs G are highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the 
system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. In addition, Mr and Mrs G have 
the flexibility to be paid a lump sum to cover any overpayments together with interest.
By making the system self-funding, Mr and Mrs Gs monthly repayments will reduce, 
meaning that they wouldve previously been paying more each month, resulting in an 
overpayment. And as Mr and Mrs G would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment I 
would expect Shawbrook to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. 
In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs G have the 
following selection of options as to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
(a) any overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) any overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they pay a 
new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) any overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs G and they continue to make their current 
monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or(d) any overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs G and they pay a new, lower monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs G 
first contacted Shawbrook that means that their claim should have been upheld. The fact 
that this did not happen undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset and consequently Ill 
make an award of £100 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a) allow Mr and Mrs G to keep the solar panels; and
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr and Mrs G from the panels over 
the 15-year term of the loan and rework it so they pay no more than this. Where 
possible, it should use Mr and Mrs Gs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this; 
and
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement; and 
(d) allow Mr and Mrs G to decide, using the four options given above, how their 
overpayments should be used; and
(e) pay Mr and Mrs G £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much itss taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman