DRN-3607964
Complaint
Ms B has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Ms B with a first loan for £1,200.00 in July 2016. This loan 
had an APR of 106.8% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £2,403.36, including interest, fees and charges of £1,203.36, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just over £100. 
Everyday Loans then provided Ms B with a second loan for £1,500.00 in February 2021. 
This loan had an APR of 99.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £2,766.96, including interest, fees and charges of £1,266.96, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £115. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Bs complaint and she thought Everyday Loans didnt 
do anything wrong when providing loan 1. But she also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Ms B with loan 2. So she thought that Ms Bs 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment but Everyday Loans disagreed with 
the outcome on loan 2. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As 
the parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 1, this decision on 
only looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Ms B with loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Bs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
It isnt in dispute that Ms B got into difficulty repaying loan 1 and that she ended up in a debt 
management plan. This resulted in Ms B not settling loan 1 until 2020 even though this loan 
was only supposed to have run for 2 years. In these circumstances, I would have expected 
Everyday Loans to have kept this difficulty in repaying loan 1 in mind from a creditworthiness 
point of view, let alone an affordability one, when it was deciding whether to provide loan 2 to 
Ms B. 
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 2 was provided. The results of which showed that Ms B had once again 
accumulated a significant amount of existing debt  despite it not being that long since she 
left her debt management plan. And while theres some suggestion this loan might have 
been for debt consolidation, the amount didnt correspond to what Ms B owed. 
Its therefore unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially 
how this was going to improve Ms Bs financial position  especially bearing in mind this loan 
had a much higher interest rate than some of Ms Bs existing debts. Im also mindful that 
Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Ms Bs living expenses. This 
is despite the fact that her credit file showed she didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ms B has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Ms Bs financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Ms Bs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Bs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that, bearing in mind what had happened on loan 1, reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt 
have provided loan 2 to Ms B. As Everyday Loans provided Ms B with loan 2, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms B lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms B paid on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms B to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Bs credit file as a result of loan 2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman