DRN-2984587
The complaint
Mr S complains Esure Services Limited (Esure) mis-sold him a home emergency policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events. 
Mr S took out an Esure home emergency policy in 2019. 
In September 2020 his boiler stopped working and made a claim under the home 
emergency cover. This was investigated and subsequently declined as he was told 
the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER)  meaning the repair cost was more 
than the value of the boiler.
A complaint about this claim was subject to a separate decision by our service. 
Within my final decision, I instructed the insurer to pay £500 towards the cost of a 
new boiler, and to pay £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S says Esure mis-sold the policy as it never highlighted that boilers of a certain 
age would not be covered by the policy  which he had specifically asked about and 
not been told. And he said the service offered was a 24 hour service but the reality 
when making a claim was a repair took between one to five days. 
Esure considered the complaint and said it hadnt mis-sold the policy. And it said the 
policy documentation made clear what cover was available.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said within the 
call recordings of the 2019 sale and 2020 renewal no discussion of the age of the 
boiler took place. And the policy at those times had no exclusion in place (although a 
term related to boiler age was since introduced in early 2021). The investigator said 
the policy documentation was clear and Esure had met its obligations.
Mr S disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Mr S has said the policy was mis-sold. 
And specifically hes mentioned Esure failed to highlight to him that the age of his boiler 
would factor into the cover he received. 
The policy terms do not specify any particular age limit on boilers that the insurer will or will 
not cover. So, Ive looked at the policy definition for BER which says:
 
 where We estimate that the cost of repairing Your primary heating and/or hot 
water system would be more than its current value, or, that We are unable to obtain 
spare parts to repair it. There are conditions and exclusions, listed below. Please 
read them carefully to ensure this cover meets Your needs. We do not wish You to 
discover after an Emergency has occurred that it is not covered under this section of 
the policy.
The policy also says it will not cover Repair or replacement of boilers that have been 
declared as Beyond Economical Repair by Our Authorised Contractors
Im satisfied these terms are clear. And that boilers may be determined as BER by the 
insurers authorised contractors for a range of reasons. In practice, I think its 
understandable the age of the boiler would be a practical factor when considering whether 
parts are available. 
Ive considered whether this was made clear to Mr S. He hasnt disputed he received a copy 
of the schedule or policy book that contain these terms. But hes said he was mis-led about 
the exclusion in a phone call before this, having taken out the cover on the phone after 
finding the policy on a comparison site. 
So, Ive listened to this sales call. Mr S told us he specifically asked within this call if the age 
of his boiler would impact cover. However, I dont agree this topic was ever discussed. Nor 
was this an exclusion at this time anyway. I also note the adviser explains the policy book 
and paperwork will be sent across shortly after the call and asks him to please read them - 
which Mr S agreed to. It follows I dont agree Esure mis-led Mr S as he alleged or provided 
any unclear information about this exclusion. 
Mr S has also suggested the home emergency cover would never have served a benefit to 
him as the boiler wouldnt be covered. But Mr S did receive a financial benefit from the 
policy, to a sum of £500 which Ive referenced above. So even if I agreed the policy 
exclusions shouldve been made clearer to him  which I dont  it wouldnt change my mind.
Mr S has also mentioned that despite being sold as 24 hour home emergency cover the 
service he received when making a claim was slow. This service has already considered a 
complaint about the claim itself. This means I wont be commenting or going over any 
ground about how the claim was handled  this includes how long it took  as this has 
already been decided. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman