DRN-3432625
The complaint
Mr N complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo) has 
unfairly charged him for a missing service history and for damage to a car that he acquired 
under a hire purchase agreement (agreement).
What happened
In October 2016 Mr N entered into an agreement with Motonovo for the acquisition of a used 
car costing £9,300. Everything else being equal Mr N undertook to pay Motonovo 59 monthly 
payments of £231.54 and 1 monthly payment of £390.54 totalling £14,051.40.
Under the agreement Mr N had the right  in certain circumstances  to return the car to 
Motonovo before the end of the agreement, and this is what he did.
After the car had been returned the following charges were noted in an inspection report that 
was undertaken on Motonovos behalf.
missing service history £300 
damage to the right corner of the front bumper £58
damage to the left front alloy wheel (LF) £45
damage to the left rear alloy wheel (LR) £45
total £448
Mr N disputed the above. And unhappy with Motonovos response to his complaint in respect 
of the same, he referred matters to our service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. Having reviewed what both parties 
had said and submitted (including the inspection report provided by Motonovo), he 
concluded that Motonovo was entitled to charge Mr N for the missing service history and 
damages.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators conclusion and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to point out Im only considering in this decision whether Motonovo is 
entitled to charge Mr N (whether ultimately it has or hasnt done so) for the missing service 
history and damages, nothing else. I say this because:
Mr N says he wishes  in due course  to complain about the total sum Motonovo is 
now seeking from him under the terms of the agreement.
Its unclear how much of the £448, if any of it, Motonovo is now seeking to recover 
from Mr N under the terms of the agreement.
I would also like to point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The agreement gives Motonovo, on the car being returned, the right to charge for 
missing/incomplete documents and for damage to the car that is deemed not to be 
reasonable wear and tear.
When considering what constitutes fair wear and tear we have regard to the standards 
published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association. 
In respect of paintwork, vehicle body, bumpers and trim the standard is:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
The inspection report in this case shows that there is a scratch on the righthand side of the 
front bumper thats more than 25 mm long with the primer showing. Therefore, I find that 
Motonovo is entitled to charge for this and a charge of £58 is/would be reasonable.
 In respect of tyres and wheels the standard is:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
The inspection report in this case shows that there are scuffs on both alloy wheels (LF and 
LR) exceeding 50mm. Therefore, I find that Motonovo is entitled to charge for this and a 
charge of £90 (£45 x 2) is/would be reasonable.
In respect of maintenance, servicing and repairs the standard is:
The vehicle must have been serviced and looked after according to the manufacturers 
servicing/maintenance schedule. The service book, if originally supplied with the vehicle, 
must be present and date stamped by the repairer or workshop as evidence that the service 
have taken place.
It's not in dispute that the car was returned with the service book. What Motonovo has 
submitted is that this service book wasnt date stamped in respect of every service that was 
undertaken on the car or that should have been undertaken on the car.
Now I accept that neither party has provided our service with the relevant service book 
pages showing that they had been or hadnt been stamped. But having considered what 
both parties have said and submitted I find, on the balance of probabilities, that the car 
wasnt returned with a complete service history. Had it been, I might have expected Mr N to have provided photographs of the relevant 
stamped pages given he was able to supply photographs of the front cover. I might have 
also expected Mr N to have provided confirmation from the garage or garages that 
undertook each and every service that the same were indeed undertaken.
Therefore, I find that Motonovo is entitled to charge for this and a charge of £300 is/would be 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that in respect of charges totalling £448 
FirstRand Bank Limited  trading as Motonovo Finance has done nothing wrong.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman