DRN-3799551
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that they were unable to draw additional borrowing on their mortgage 
with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) due to an IT error. They ask that Halifax allows 
them to take out the additional borrowing at the same interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I successfully applied for additional borrowing in September 2021. They were 
told they could draw the funds by signing into the online borrowing hub at any time before 28 
February 2022. When they tried to draw the funds in early February 2022 they were unable 
to do so. They received an email from Halifax suggesting there was a problem with the 
property valuation and asking them to get in contact.
Halifax said the application had been amended by Mr and Mrs I, which put it back to the pre- 
offer stage. Halifax said Mr and Mrs I needed to correct the information in the application, 
which would return it to full offer status, or re-apply online or via an advised process. Halifax 
said as this was an execution only application staff members cant access it or intervene to 
release funds.
Mr and Mrs I said they hadnt changed the application and the system wouldnt have allowed 
it even if theyd wanted to. Mr I said once the application was submitted the boxes were all 
inactive other than the request funds box. This also meant they couldnt have made a 
keying error.
Mr I said he shouldnt have to spend time re-applying and wouldnt get the same rate for the 
borrowing. Mr and Mrs I said theyd had to borrow from a relative, but need to repay this.
We asked Halifax to look into the matter again. After doing so, it said the problem could be a 
system issue or an applicant change. However, it said there was no evidence Mr I had 
amended the application when he went in to request funds. It said the problem was with the 
loan amount  something it said an applicant cant change after the offer is issued. Halifax 
apologised for having given inaccurate information previously.
I issued a provisional decision, which was substantially along the same lines as below. The 
parties agreed how the complaint should be resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs I received an offer of additional borrowing in September 2021. Mr I called Halifax 
in early February 2022 after trying to draw the funds. Hed received an email saying he 
needed to contact Halifax and suggesting there was a problem with the valuation (although 
as Mr I says the email didnt make sense). Halifax didnt know what had gone wrong. Halifax 
said Mr I would have to review and correct the application  which the system didnt allow 
him to do  or start a new application. It suggested the problems were caused by Mr I 
making changes to the application after the offer.
Halifax has apologised for providing incorrect information previously. It cant provide a 
complete explanation for what happened.
Based on the available evidence, I think the error that prevented Mr and Mrs I drawing the 
loan was most likely due to an error in Halifaxs system. Halifax says the problem was due to 
a change in the loan amount. It said that applicants cant change a loan amount once an 
offer is generated. And Mr I has told us he couldnt have made changes as the boxes are 
inactive other than those used to request the funds.
Mr and Mrs I werent able to draw the loan funds. They say they had to borrow money from 
family members, which they need to repay. Mr I asked that Halifax honours the loan offer, 
without them having to re-apply and at the same interest rate. Or if they have to make a new 
application it should compensate them for the time spent and apply the agreed rate.
I think Mr Is request is reasonable. It wasnt Mr and Mrs Is fault that they couldnt draw 
down the loan funds in February 2022, or that its taken until now for the matter to be sorted 
out. While they could have made a new application in February 2022 they wouldnt have 
secured the same interest rate product.
I said in my provisional decision that I couldnt fairly require Halifax to provide a loan  which 
will be secured on Mr and Mrs Is home  without carrying out affordability checks. There 
could have been a change in their circumstances since they applied for the loan in 2021. I 
said Mr and Mrs I would need to complete an application, and this should be done with an 
adviser, to ensure the matter progresses smoothly.
However, Mr and Mrs I have recently completed an application. They asked that Halifax 
applies the product rate to this application, which Halifax agreed to do. In order to do this, 
the parties will need to take the following steps:
1. Mr and Mrs I will drawdown the funds via their most recent online application (this has a 
higher product rate attached).
2. Halifax will apply the product rate set out in the offer dated 30 September 2021 to the 
borrowing and backdate this to the date the funds were drawn. It will adjust the account 
accordingly  for instance to remove any additional interest accrued while the higher rate 
applied and refund any overpayments. Halifax says it will need up to two weeks to do 
this.
3. After completing step 2, Halifax will write to Mr and Mrs I to confirm the product is in 
place and their monthly payments.
This matter will have caused upset and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs I. Mr I called Halifax 
several times and it couldnt explain or sort out the problem. They had to borrow money from 
family members, which likely caused some embarrassment and further inconvenience. Mr I 
had to persist with a complaint before Halifax investigated the matter properly. And Mr and 
Mrs I have spent time making a new application. I think for this inconvenience Halifax should 
pay compensation of £500.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman