DRN-3843318
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF), has dealt with her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of a new kitchen.
What happened
In August 2021 Ms S entered into a five year, zero-interest loan with BPF to pay for the 
supply (but not installation) of a new kitchen. The kitchen was supplied later that year, and 
was installed by Ms Ss own contractors. (She says her original contractor was a fraudster, 
and she had to replace him with a new contractor, who finished the installation.)
In or around February 2022, Ms S complained to the supplier about a number of issues with 
the kitchen. The supplier told her that some of these issues were to do with how the kitchen 
had been installed, and that she would have to take those matters up with her own 
contractors. The supplier did make an offer in relation to the other issues, but Ms S was not 
satisfied with that offer, because she wanted the supplier to take responsibility for 
everything. Once an impasse was reached, she asked BPF to require the supplier to fix 
everything for her, or refund all her money, citing section 75. And in May 2022 Ms S referred 
this complaint to our service, about BPFs handling of her section 75 claim. Since then, she 
has complained about how long it was taking BPF to resolve her claim, and has also 
complained about BPFs interim conclusions and offers.
BPF accepted that under section 75 it was responsible for any breach of contract by the 
supplier. But one of its case handlers mistakenly thought that Ms S had raised a complaint 
with another ombudsman service, and closed her claim. BPF subsequently re-opened her 
claim once it realised that Ms S had referred her complaint to our service. (In its initial 
response to our service, BPF challenged our jurisdiction to consider a section 75 claim which 
is still open; I have dealt with that argument in a separate decision. This decision is about the 
merits of her case.)
In its substantive response to Ms Ss claim, BPF adopted the suppliers position that some of 
the issues Ms S had complained about were not its responsibility, being matters to do with 
installation, when Ms Ss contract with the supplier had been only to supply the kitchen, not 
to install it. It has made offers to resolve some other issues, either because it accepts 
responsibility for them or as gestures of good will, but Ms S has not accepted those offers 
because she insists that the supplier (and therefore BPF) is responsible for all of the issues 
she has raised.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said that 
as the supplier had offered to carry out some repairs, but Ms S had rejected its offer, the 
supplier had done enough, as it was reasonable to give the supplier an opportunity to 
resolve those issues before allowing Ms S to reject the kitchen. The investigator also noted 
that BPF hadnt closed Ms Ss claim yet, and was still waiting for further information from 
Ms S before proceeding. The investigator recommended that Ms S provide that information 
so that BPF could review her claim further.
Ms S did not accept that opinion. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
BPFs decision to close Ms Ss section 75 claim in May 2022 was certainly a mistake. 
I appreciate that it must have been concerning for Ms S at the time, and her frustration at 
this setback comes across in her emails to BPF. But when she complained about it, BPF re-
opened her claim and carried on investigating it. This error was soon resolved  the claim 
was closed for 12 days  and it did not affect the outcome of Ms Ss claim. So I dont think 
that mistake is serious enough to merit an award of compensation.
The claim concerns eight topics. I will deal with each of them in turn.
1. The two doors to the boiler cabinet are asymmetrical. This is evident in a photo. It 
has been alleged that this was agreed to in the plan for the kitchen, but I cant see 
that it was. However, as a gesture of good will the supplier has now agreed to either 
refund this item in full (£285.99), or replace the doors with one door, at Ms Ss 
election. I think that is a fair resolution to this part of the claim, so I will not require 
BPF to do anything more about that.
2. Ms S says that the magic corner cupboard does not extend outwards as far as it 
should. This is disputed by the supplier, who says it is working properly. I have seen 
a photo of this cupboard on the suppliers website, and two videos of it being 
operated, one recorded by Ms S and one on YouTube at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nPHpBw9YZl4. Based on all of this evidence, 
I am satisfied that the cupboard is operating correctly.
3. Mrs S reports that some of the cupboard door hinges are coming loose, and that the 
doors do not close softly the way they should. The supplier and BPF do not dispute 
that this is true, but they say that this is not a breach of contract, because the 
contract was not for the installation of the kitchen but only to supply it. The hinges 
were supplied as part of the kitchen, but were fitted by Ms Ss own contractors, so 
they say that this is a matter between Ms S and her contractors.
This has been a serious bone of contention for Ms S throughout the history of this 
matter, because she insists that the supplier must be responsible for everything that 
has gone wrong with the kitchen. However, I am afraid that I cannot agree with that. 
The sales paperwork clearly sets out that the supplier was only going to supply the 
kitchen and that Ms S would have to arrange for a third party to install it. (I think she 
must have known that at the time, because she did get her own installers.) So I am 
unable to conclude that this issue is a breach of contract by the supplier, or that BPF 
is liable for it.
4. The cupboard door under the sink has come off, and a hinge is missing. It isnt clear 
why that happened, but it seems likely to me that this is because the hinges were not 
fitted properly, so I think the same thing about this issue as I do about issue 3. 
However, Im pleased to see that the supplier has agreed to supply a new hinge.
5. Ms S says that the drawers are squeaky. This was not part of her original section 75 
claim, but is a later development. The supplier insists that this is another installation issue, rather than a defect with the materials supplied. I have seen no evidence to 
contradict that, so I cant require BPF to do anything about it.
6. Ms S says that cracks have appeared in some of the cabinets, around the holes 
which were pre-drilled for attaching shelves. She has provided photographs, but 
I cant see the cracks. The supplier has asked her for more evidence, which I think is 
a reasonable response. As this issue is still being investigated by the supplier, I do 
not propose to make any further findings about this issue, except to say that I do not 
think that I have seen enough evidence to hold BPF liable for that.
7. A worktop has been damaged by excessive polishing, which has stripped away the 
surface in two patches. That is not in dispute. The supplier says this damage cannot 
be repaired, and so the worktop has to be replaced. The supplier offered to replace it 
at no cost to Ms S, but she did not accept that offer. The supplier has since offered to 
pay for the reasonable cost of her own contractor replacing the worktop, if she 
provides it with an invoice. I am satisfied that both of these offers by the supplier are 
entirely reasonable, and so it would not be fair to require BPF to do anything else.
8. The sink collapsed, apparently because it was not adequately supported underneath. 
In the process of collapsing, it caused some further damage nearby. The supplier 
says this is another installation issue for which it is not responsible. It isnt clear to me 
from the evidence Ive seen whether that is correct or whether the sink should have 
been supplied with (or was supplied with) materials for supporting it underneath, so 
I will not make a finding about that here. It follows that I cant say that BPF should 
have upheld Ms Ss claim about that.
I now turn to how long BPF took to resolve Ms Ss section 75 claim. Ms S raised her claim 
with BPF on 5 May 2022, and referred this complaint to our service on 18 May. BPF closed 
her claim on 19 May and re-opened it on 31 May. Our investigator issued her decision on 2 
September, and on 6 September BPF wrote to Ms S with its final response to her claim and 
told her it was closing her claim. So overall, BPF took four months to investigate and resolve 
her claim. BPFs response was to endorse the suppliers earlier offer, which was to uphold 
points 1 and 7 on my list above, and also to offer to pay Ms S £50 for the magic corner 
cupboard not meeting her expectations. (In other words, BPF went further than I would have 
required it to do if it had offered nothing.)
I dont think that is an unreasonable timescale, and so I do not uphold that complaint point.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman