DRN-3860549
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd didnt allow her to make a 
withdrawal from her ISA because a fee in another account was outstanding. 
What happened
Mrs K had an ISA account and a pension account with Vanguard. She says she wanted to 
withdraw the cash held in her ISA and transfer it to a third-party provider. She says 
Vanguard wouldnt allow her to make the withdrawal.
Vanguard said it sent Mrs K a notification on 21 October 2022 to tell her its fees were due in 
her pension account. On 24 October, Mrs K asked how to make a withdrawal from her ISA. It 
said that, as a fee was outstanding and there wasnt enough cash in the pension account to 
cover it, Mrs K wasnt able to make a withdrawal from her ISA. An interest payment was 
credited to the pension account on 1 November which allowed the fee to be charged and the 
ISA withdrawal was completed on 3 November.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Vanguard had acted in line with its agreed terms and conditions. And that it acted quickly to 
progress the withdrawal once the fee had been paid.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Her pension account was valued at around £15,000 which was more than enough to 
meet the £5.83 fee. The agreement says that Vanguard will sell assets if theres not 
enough cash to pay the fee.
Theres nothing in the terms and conditions to say the pension fee will be taken from the 
ISA account, so the withdrawal should have gone ahead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K was made aware that a fee was payable in her pension account and she should 
reasonably have been aware that there wasnt enough cash in that account to pay it. She 
knew she couldve transferred in enough cash to meet the fee. However, shortly after the fee 
became payable, interest was received in the account which covered it.
Mrs K gave instructions on 24 October 2022 to withdraw the cash in her ISA. She was told 
this could take up to five business days. But she needed to give Vanguard her bank account 
details, and this needed to be verified. She sent Vanguard a copy of her bank statement on 
the same day. Vanguard acknowledged this and told her it could take up to 10 business 
days to complete its verification process. Whilst Vanguard was able to complete verification 
sooner than that, it didnt complete the withdrawal until 3 November, because of the 
outstanding fee due in the pension account. 
I dont find the terms and conditions include information about the specific circumstances 
here. I cant see that it covers using the cash in an account to pay the fee due in another 
account. But, taking into account that the withdrawal was completed within 10 business 
days, which was within the internal timescale for verifying Mrs Ks bank account, I dont find 
this to be unreasonable. Overall, and on balance, the withdrawal was processed in a 
reasonably timely manner, I dont find Mrs K was unduly disadvantaged and in the 
circumstances I dont make any award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman