The complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited renewed her contents 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss V is represented in this complaint by her mother Mrs J, who I understand makes the 
payments for the policy. For the sake of simplicity, I have largely referred to Miss V only in 
this decision even where referring to an action or representation of Mrs J.
The policy itself is underwritten by a third party, but Endsleigh is responsible for the 
administration of the policy - including arranging its renewal. It is paid for, via a finance 
agreement with a further third party, on a monthly basis.
Miss V took the policy out in 2017. As well as the standard contents cover, Miss V included 
the additional option of mobile phone insurance. Miss V was provided with various 
documents that confirmed the policy would automatically renew for a further year. For 
example, the statement of insurance said:
"By agreeing to pay monthly, You consent to the automatic renewal of Your Policy at 
its expiry for a further 12 month period of cover with either Your current insurer or an 
alternative insurer. We will write to You beforehand with details of your renewal 
premium and cover and tell you what you need to do should you choose not to 
proceed."
Miss V also had an online account, where she could log in and view her policy documents. 
In 2018, Miss V was initially sent a letter advising her that the policy was due to 
automatically renew the following month. The policy then automatically renewed and she 
was sent similar documents to those in 2017 - including the statement of insurance with the 
above wording. And a confirmation email, at the end of the day of the renewal, confirming 
that the policy documents were available online.
At time of the 2018 renewal Miss V was also sent a further email, asking her to log on to 
complete the renewal process. This email was sent to her two days after the policy had 
actually renewed. 
In March 2019, Miss V was apparently sent a similar letter advising that the policy was due 
to renew. And then the policy renewed in April 2019, with Miss V again apparently being sent 
the policy documents and confirmation email. She's said she did not received a similar 
'request to complete' email to that in 2018. 
DRN-1121219The policy wording confirmed that the policy could be cancelled. But that customers would 
be charged a cancellation fee and that the refund of any premium paid would be reduced by 
the time on risk. It also said that there would be no refund for any premium of the mobile 
phone additional cover, which had to be paid in full. 
Miss V complained to Endsleigh in June 2019, saying that she had not wanted to renew the 
policy, and that she had not received any of the renewal documentation. She was unhappy 
at having to pay a cancellation charge, and she did not feel she should have to pay any of 
the premiums either as she had not wanted to renew.
Endsleigh responded, saying that Miss V had been sent the notification letter in March and 
the renewal letter in April, along with an email. So it did not consider it had acted 
inappropriately in cancelling the policy. And the mobile phone cover was non-refundable and 
the cancellation charges had been applied in accordance with the policy documents.
Miss V remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator noted 
that the policy would automatically renew and thought that the renewal letters were most 
likely sent to Miss V. So she felt Endsleigh has acted reasonably in renewing the policy. She 
also considered that the premiums and cancellation fee had been applied correctly. So she 
did not recommend Miss V's complaint be upheld.
Miss V said that in previous years an email had been sent which required her to complete 
the renewal online and this hadn't been sent. She also maintained that she had not received 
any letters and said there was no evidence they had actually been sent. Her complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision. 
Miss V also raised a separate, but closely linked, complaint with Endsleigh. This focussed on 
the calculation of the pro-rate refund for the policy premium. In responding to this complaint 
point, which itself does not form part of this decision, Endsleigh offered to pay Miss V a pro-
rata refund of the premium for the mobile phone insurance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a couple of key questions that this decision will focus on. These are whether it 
was fair and reasonable for the policy to renew in the manner it did and whether the costs of 
cancelling the policy were fair and reasonable. I shall deal with these in turn.
The wording in the policy documents, including that in the statement of fact set out above, 
make it clear that the policy can and will automatically renew for a further year at the end of 
its term. Such a mechanism is common to many policies, and is in line with current industry 
practice. It would not be fair or reasonable of me to say, in the circumstances of this case, 
that Endsleigh has acted inappropriately by renewing this policy automatically. 
Miss V was also aware that the policy would renew automatically. It had previously done so 
in 2018, and so it is reasonable that she could expect the same to happen the following 
year. 
I do note that Miss V has questioned the 'request to complete' email she received in 2018 
and why a similar process was not involved in 2019. However, this particular email was sent 
by the third party who provided Miss V with the credit agreement to pay for the policy. 
Endsleigh has said that customers who pay for their policy on a monthly basis are not asked by Endsleigh to complete the renewal process online. And I am not able to hold 
Endsleigh responsible for an email that a third party did or did not send in 2019. 
The process Endsleigh set out for renewals, and which was followed in 2018 and 2019, 
required Endsleigh to write to Miss V prior to the renewal with details of the premium and 
cover, and to include details of what she needed to do if she did not want to proceed. 
Endsleigh has provided a copy of a letter dated in March 2019, and addressed to the 
address it held for Miss V. And when Miss V did not respond to this, the policy renewed in 
line with the process.
Miss V has said that this letter was not received, and has questioned the evidence that it 
was sent. It is not possible for me to be completely sure that any letter was sent. The letter 
was not posted by recorded delivery, but then I would not expect such a letter to have been 
posted in this way. So, my role here is to determine whether, on the balance of probabilities, 
I consider the letter was most likely sent. Endsleigh has been able to provide a screen shot 
of its document archive for 2018 and 2019, which strongly suggests the letters were 
generated on the relevant dates. The entries for both years are the same, except for the 
dates. And given the 2018 letter was sent and received, there is nothing to suggest the 2019 
letter was not also sent. Having considered the evidence, I am persuaded that Endsleigh 
most likely sent Miss V the letter in March 2019.
Endsleigh's responsibility here was only to send the letter. It could not reasonably guarantee 
delivery. So whilst I accept that Miss V may not have received this letter, I am unable to 
conclude Endsleigh did not meet its requirements. I also note that Miss V had a shared post 
box at the entrance to her building, rather than a specific letter box. Rather than Endsleigh 
failing to send the letter, I consider it more likely in these circumstances that there was an 
issue either with the postal service to the building itself or that the shared post box facility led 
to Miss V not receiving the letter. It would not be fair or reasonable to hold Endsleigh 
responsible for such issues.
Additionally, given the automatic renewal of the policy that took place in 2018, it is 
reasonable that Miss V could expect a similar renewal to occur in 2019. She also would have 
been aware of the end date of her policy. So it would have been possible for her to either 
contact Endsleigh when she had not heard from them, or to log in to the online portal and 
view her renewal documents there.
I appreciate Miss V did not intend to renew the policy. This is made clear not only by the 
cancellation, but also because Miss V had apparently changed her mobile phone handset, 
but not updated the cover. However, I am unable to fairly and reasonably conclude that 
Endsleigh acted inappropriately in renewing the policy. 
Miss V is also unhappy about the cost of cancelling the policy. This complaint is against 
Endsleigh, rather than the underwriter of the policy. So I will only be considering the cost of 
cancellation applied by Endsleigh, rather than any costs or charges applied by the 
underwriter. I also note that the refund of part of the premium for the main section of the 
policy has been dealt with separately and does not form part of this decision. And that the 
premium for the mobile phone cover has also now been refunded on a pro-rata basis. So I 
do not intend to comment on these aspects. 
The cancellation fee applied by Endsleigh was £30. This fee was set out in the policy 
documents sent to Miss V (in each year of her cover). And has been applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. As the policy renewed in line with the correct process, it 
needed to be cancelled by Miss V. And the correct charge for this was applied.I also don't consider this to be an inappropriate level of cancellation fee. Customers can only 
be charged an administration fee which is proportionate to the service provided. But a £30 
fee is what I would expect for providing the service of administering a policy cancellation. It is 
also in line with the cancellation fees charged by comparable businesses across the 
industry. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman