DRN-3497166
The complaint
Ms P complains that Santander UK Plc has been unable to locate savings after she found an 
old passbook. 
What happened
Ms P had a savings account with Santander that she accessed via a passbook. The last 
entry in the passbook said there was around £12,000 saved in May 1988. Ms P has 
explained the passbook was left with family members around this time. 
Santander carried out searches for Ms Ps account but were unable to find a record of it. Mrs 
P complained but Santander didnt agree it had made mistakes or that it had lost her money. 
An investigator at this service looked into Ms Ps complaint but thought Santander had dealt 
with it fairly. Ms P asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Finding a previously lost passbook doesnt automatically mean the account is still open. 
Where theres been no contact with the account holder for an extended period a business 
can take the step of closing it. The account details, including the amount it held when closed, 
would then be recorded on the business dormant account register. That means, if Ms Ps 
account had either remained open or was closed on the basis it was dormant there would be 
a record at Santander. 
Santanders provided evidence of the searches it completed when trying to trace Ms Ps 
account. The systems searches include details of Ms Ps personal information like name and 
address. The systems searches also include evidence Santander checked its dormant 
account register. I can confirm the information Ive seen shows no trace of an open account 
in Ms Ps name was located. 
Looking at the passbook, the last transaction was carried out in 1988. I understand Ms P left 
the passbook with family members around this time for safekeeping. I think its fair to note 
that accounts could still be operated without the physical passbook. So even though Ms P 
has found the passbook in question, Im satisfied the account could still have been used in 
its absence. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that the money in the account was withdrawn or 
transferred by Ms P and then closed. I appreciate theres no direct record, but Im satisfied 
the passage of time means the information that wouldve shown how Ms Ps account was 
closed is no longer available. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman