DRN-2391554
The complaint
Mr N complains Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London):
- removed the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) on increases to contributions to his 
personal pension plan in 1994 without consultation;
- didnt tell him, or his financial adviser, about the changes to the GAR that would be 
applied to his pension pot;
- invited him to increase his pension contributions each year, but didnt explain that 
any increase in contributions wouldn't benefit from the GAR; and
- issued statements from 1995 onwards that didn't show which part of his pension pot 
benefited from a GAR and which part didn't.
What happened
Mr N took out a personal pension plan in 1986 (the plan was a retirement annuity contract 
but for simplicity I have referred to it as a personal pension plan throughout this decision). 
The pension plan later became the responsibility of Royal London. The plan Mr N took out 
had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) attached to it. 
In December 1994 Mr Ns pension provider wrote to its pension customers about changes it 
was making to its pension products. Under the heading Guaranteed Minimum Annuity 
Rates it said:
The Policy Conditions of your Plan contain guaranteed minimum annuity rates. These set a 
minimum rate at which qualifying cash funds at retirement can be converted into pension. 
These rates were withdrawn for new policies with effect from 1 February 1992 and so with 
effect from 1st January 1995, the terms for increases to existing policies are being brought 
into line with these new policies.
As a result, the guaranteed rates will continue to apply to all funds secured to date and to 
those secured in the future by the current level of regular contributions to the Plan, if any, but 
will not apply to future single contributions (including transfer payments) or increases in 
regular contributions effected after 31 December 1994.
Mr N says neither he nor his financial adviser received this letter from his pension provider. 
As a result, he was unaware that increases to the contributions he made to his pension 
would not benefit from the GAR. He also says that the annual statements it sent did not 
explain that only part of his pension pot would benefit from the GAR.  
In 2018 Royal London wrote to Mr N (and other pension customers who also benefitted from 
a GAR) and offered him the opportunity to give up his right to the GAR on part of his Royal 
London pension pot in exchange for an uplift in the value of his pension pot. 
As part of Royal Londons communications about the offer it sent Mr N a personalised offer, 
based on his policy value dated 25 June 2018. The offer set out that 38.79% of Mr Ns 
pension pot was eligible for the GAR uplift.
It was only at this point that Mr N says he became aware that he would not benefit from a 
GAR on the whole value of his pension pot with Royal London. 
Mr N complained to Royal London. He said he was not told about the change to the GAR in 
1994.  Royal London didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said, in summary, that the pension 
provider had notified affected pension plan holders in late 1994 that the GAR would not 
apply to any premium increases or lump sum contributions. It explained that it wasnt 
required to keep a copy of the letter sent to individual plan holders and provided Mr N with a 
copy of the wording that Mr Ns previous pension provider had sent in 1994.
Mr N was not satisfied with Royal Londons response and referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered the merits of Mr Ns complaint. Having done so, she said she 
didnt think Royal London had acted incorrectly in this matter. 
She said she was satisfied that Royal London (and the original pension provider Mr N took 
his pension plan out with) was permitted to change the terms and conditions of the plan. 
But she said that where a business made a change to the terms and conditions of a plan this 
service would expect the business to tell its customers about the change before it came into 
force. 
She noted that Royal London said Mr Ns pension provider had told its customers about the 
change to the GAR, in a letter sent in December 1994. Royal London also provided this 
service with a copy of the wording used in the letter. Mr N said he didnt recall receiving this 
letter, and Royal London wasnt able to provide a copy of the letter sent to Mr N.
Our investigator said she was mindful that it was over 25 years since the letter had been 
issued. As this was the case, she said she didnt think it was unreasonable that Royal 
London didnt have a copy of the actual letter sent to Mr N in 1994. She noted that Royal 
London had confirmed the letter was sent to the address it held on its system for Mr N at that 
time.
With regard to the letters sent to Mr N inviting him to increase his pension contributions, she 
accepted that the reminders did not explain that any increases in contributions would not 
benefit from the GAR. But she said she didnt think it was unreasonable for Royal London to 
invite its customers to increase their pension contributions. She said the lack of a GAR on 
any increased contribution did not mean a customer would not benefit from increasing their 
pension contributions.
Our investigator also considered Mr Ns comments that he felt the annual statements should 
have shown which part of his pension pot would benefit from the GAR and which didnt. She 
agreed it would have been helpful to Mr N if Royal London had provided this information, but 
she said there was no requirement on it to do so.
She also said that even if Royal London had provided Mr N with information about the GAR 
in his annual statements, and in the invitations it sent to increase his contributions, she was 
of the view that he would still have paid into his pension in order to build up his pension fund. 
Mr N did not accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he was not told about the 
changes made to the GAR in 1994.  He said he didnt accept that the template of the letter 
that Royal London had provided to this service was sufficient evidence to show that such a letter had been sent to him. Mr N also said that neither his financial adviser nor his solicitor 
had received any notification from the product provider about changes to the GAR.
He also said:
Re the terms and conditions, it is clear that they do not allow the removal of GAR for existing 
policyholders. 
Of course I would NOT have increased my premiums (and I increased them substantially) if I 
had been aware they would not have been eligible for the benefit of GAR. That created a 
situation where less than 40% of my fund was subject to the GAR guarantee. I hope I have 
some financial sense. Nor can I understand how Scottish Life/Royal London could fail 
annually to give this warning regarding potential increased contributions!
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ns position and I have very carefully considered the points he has 
made. 
Was Royal London permitted to make changes to the GAR
I appreciate that Mr N feels that his product provider was not entitled to change the terms 
and conditions that applied to the plan he took out in 1986, but I dont agree with his position. 
I am satisfied that it acted in accordance with the plan terms and conditions when it made 
changes to the GAR. 
I note Mr N says he has received advice from his solicitor on this matter. This service is an 
informal dispute resolution service, and we decide cases based on whats fair and 
reasonable. And I think that a fair and reasonable interpretation of the terms of the policy did 
allow the product provider to no longer apply the GAR to increases in contributions. If Mr N 
remains of the view that Royal London has acted unlawfully in amending the terms of the 
GAR he is, of course, free to refer this matter to the courts.
Did Royal London notify policyholders of the change to the GAR in 1994
It is frustrating that Royal London cant provide evidence to show that Mr N was told about 
changes to the GAR in 1994. But I am mindful that this was over twenty-five years ago, and I 
must make a decision based on what I think was more likely than not to have happened at 
the time. And I do think its more likely than not that Royal London wrote to him to inform him 
about the GAR being withdrawn, even if he doesnt recollect receiving the letter from his 
pension provider at that time or didnt appreciate how this would affect his pension if he 
chose to increase his contributions in the future. 
There is no requirement on product providers to keep copies of letters sent to customers 
indefinitely. So, I cant reasonably say that because Royal London cannot provide a copy of 
the actual letter sent to Mr N this means, on balance, it didnt send the letter.
Should invitations to increase contributions have explained that the GAR would not apply to 
increases
Im satisfied that the invitation forms sent by Royal London were only intended to act as a 
prompt for customers to increase their pension contributions. The forms didnt give any information about the pension policy the customer held or any benefits that might be 
attached to their pension.
I dont think Royal London was under an obligation to remind Mr N that the GAR would only 
apply to his regular payments at the level he was making in 1994 and would not be applied 
to any increase in his contributions.  As this is the case, I cant reasonably say it acted 
incorrectly by not including a note about the changes to the GAR in the invitations it sent 
Mr N to increase his contributions. 
Should annual statements have shown what portion of Mr Ns fund would benefit from the 
GAR
I fully appreciate why Mr N feels Royal London should have split out his annual statement to 
show which part of his pension pot would benefit from the GAR and which part would not. 
However, there was no regulatory requirement on Royal London to do so. As this is the 
case, I cant reasonably say that it acted incorrectly in failing to provide a breakdown in the 
annual statements to show which part of Mr Ns pension pot would benefit from the GAR.
As Mr N may be aware, in 2015/6 the Financial Conduct Authority, the industry regulator, 
consulted on introducing a requirement for businesses to provide information to consumers 
on the GAR and non-guaranteed elements of their pension pot. In light of feedback from 
stakeholders on the difficulty for businesses in providing this information, implementation of 
this requirement was not introduced until April 2017. 
I accept Mr N didnt know that the GAR wouldnt apply on any increases to his contributions 
until he received the letters offering him the opportunity to give up his right to the GAR on 
part of his Royal London pension pot in exchange for an uplift in the value of his pension pot. 
But I dont think this means Royal London did anything wrong in the way it communicated 
with Mr N about the GAR before then. It provided him with annual statements setting out the 
value of his pension pot and detailing the pension contributions he had made.
There was no regulatory requirement for Royal London to remind Mr N on a yearly, or 
regular basis that any increases in his contributions wouldnt benefit from the GAR. And 
Mr N was free to seek advice before deciding whether to increase his contributions to his 
Royal London pension.
Would Mr N have increased his contributions to his Royal London pension if he had been 
aware of the changes to the GAR?
I am mindful that Mr N says he would not have increased his contributions to his Royal 
London pension plan if he had been told that the GAR would not apply to any increases in 
his contribution post 1994.
I appreciate Mr Ns position, but I must also take into account that whether a pension 
contribution benefitted from a GAR would only be one factor in deciding whether to increase 
pension savings. Mr N will have received tax relief at his marginal rate on his pension 
contributions and his fund has grown in a tax efficient environment. 
Overall, Im not going to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Im satisfied that, on balance, its likely that 
Royal London did everything it needed to do under the rules at the time to let Mr N know 
about changes to the way the GAR applied to contributions. And even if he had known about 
the withdrawal of the GAR at the time, given the tax efficiencies of pension contributions, I 
think its more likely than not that he wouldnt have acted any differently.As I explained above, new requirements have now been introduced by the industry 
regulator, which require pension providers to highlight the GAR in statements in order to 
bring the GAR to the policyholders attention. But previously this wasnt a regulatory 
requirement. So, I cant say that Royal London should have done more to highlight the GAR 
before this regulatory requirement came into force as it wasnt required to do so.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr N was hoping for. Although I dont think, on a 
fair and reasonable assessment of the facts here that Royal London has done anything 
wrong, if Mr N remains of the view that the requirements of communications sent to 
customers about changes to the GAR were not adequate, he may wish to pursue this with 
the industry regulator, the FCA. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman