DRN-4063627
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt fully reimbursed him for the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam. He brings this complaint with the help of professional 
representation, but for clarity in what follows I will refer solely to Mr S.
What happened
Mr S explains he was contacted by someone on a popular social media website. After 
chatting over the course of several days, this person offered to teach Mr S to make money 
through trading in cryptocurrencies. 
Mr S was helped to create an account in his name on two cryptocurrency exchanges. He 
was told to send money from one then transfer it onwards from there to the second.
In the course of the scam, Mr S began by making Faster Payments transfers from his 
Santander account as set out below:
Sequence Date Payee Amount
1 14 April 2022 A £105
2 16 April 2022 A £400
3 16 April 2022 B £400
4 18 April 2022 A £150
5 19 April 2022 A £1,497
6 19 April 2022 A £1,510
7 19 April 2022 A £100
8 21 April 2022 A £3,030 Blocked by Santander  
payment attempted but 
not sent
Payee account A appears to have been a limited company account, and B may be an 
account held by a trust. Neither payee account appears to have had any obvious connection 
to the cryptocurrency exchanges Mr S believed he was investing with.
Hed initially invested a small amount - the minimum he was told hed need to start. Mr S 
says that his profits appeared to be increasing, and he was told that the more he put in the 
larger the profits hed make. Being tempted by the projections he was shown he started to 
make larger investments. Unfortunately, he explains that he can no longer remember the 
returns he was being offered, but he recalls that within a few days he was told his profits had 
reached over £50,000.
On 21 April Mr S attempted to pay a larger sum, but this was stopped by Santander. During 
a subsequent call between Mr S and the bank the scam came to light. Santander attempted 
to recover Mr Ss money but was unable to do so.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional protection when 
customers fall victim to Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) such as this one. 
However, Santander didnt think Mr B had taken enough care before sending the payments 
 it didnt think hed had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate investment 
opportunity. It said therefore it didnt need to refund the relevant payments under the CRM 
Code.
Mr S was unhappy with this outcome and asked our service to review the matter.
Our Investigator considered everything Mr S and Santander had submitted. He didnt think 
Mr S had taken steps to look into who he was paying or to check he was making a genuine 
investment. So he agreed with Santander that Mr S hadnt had a reasonable basis for 
believing what he did when he sent these payments. But he thought Santander should have 
done more. 
In particular he thought Santander ought to have given Mr S an Effective Warning under the 
CRM Code at the point of the payment six on 19 April (the sum of £1,510). Because it hadnt 
done so, he thought it was fair that Mr S and Santander should share equal liability from the 
point of this payment onwards. The Investigator recommended Santander should reimburse 
50% of payments six and seven. As these payments had been funded from Mr Ss overdraft 
facility, he said Santander should also reimburse Mr S any associated overdraft costs.
Santander accepted the Investigators view and agreed to settle Mr Ss complaint in line with 
these recommendations
Mr S didnt agree this settlement was fair. He thought he should be entitled to a full refund. 
He argued hed been isolated and lonely, making him more susceptible to the scam, and that 
the lack of information hed been given about the investment didnt mean hed not held a 
reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. He said Santander should have given a 
warning at the point of payment five, earlier than the investigator said it ought to have. So 
redress should apply from the point of that earlier payment.
In light of this disagreement, Ive been asked to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Santander has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give 
it. As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for the payments they have 
instructed to be made. But that isnt the end of the story. In particular, as Ive mentioned 
above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection where payments have been made 
as the result of an APP scam.
That being said, the CRM Code wont always require a firm to refund payments in full. In 
particular, it says a firm can choose not to fully reimburse APP scam losses where the firm 
can establish that the customer made the transactions without having a reasonable basis for 
believing what they did - including that they were paying who they expected to pay, and for a 
genuine service (here investment). Where a customer couldnt reasonably be expected to have protected themselves against 
the scam that occurred, the CRM Code says the customer was vulnerable and the firm 
should reimburse in full regardless of whether that customer had a reasonable basis for 
believing what they did. 
I accept that Mr S entered into this supposed investment on the basis that hed been 
persuaded by someone hed met online, and that hed been lonely and so was more 
susceptible. But I dont consider the evidence supports a finding that he met the definition of 
a vulnerable customer under the CRM Code. The messages hes provided from the time do 
lead me to think he was unable to protect himself here. Rather, these suggest hed identified 
concerns and show later he was capable of refusing to make further payments.
So, I do not find Mr S to have met the CRM Codes definition of vulnerability at the relevant 
time. Therefore, I have gone on to consider whether Mr S made the payments without 
having held a reasonable basis for believing he was paying who he thought he was and 
making a genuine investment. I have carefully considered everything Mr S has submitted as 
well as the evidence submitted by the bank.
There seems to be very little evidence available here to show anything about the investment 
Mr S believed he was making. He doesnt recall the returns initially offered but does recall 
that he appeared to achieve returns of over 1,000% profit within a matter of days. It doesnt 
appear he received any information that explained what he was investing in or how such 
exceptional profits might reasonably have been possible.
I also note that the accounts to which Mr S sent his payments bear no obvious relation to the 
exchanges he thought he was paying. I accept he may have gone ahead regardless 
because the person hed met said that he should, and because he trusted that person. But I 
dont find it was reasonable for him to believe a payment he sent to an account in a wholly 
different company name was necessarily going where he thought it was.
All considered it seems to me that while the scammer had built trust with Mr S, he was 
placing a great deal of reliance on someone whom hed never met in person, and about 
whom there was little in the way of outside validation or verification. He apparently knew very 
little about the investment or where his money was being sent. I find on balance, that he 
made the payments he did without having held a reasonable basis for the beliefs he held at 
the relevant time.
In short therefore I dont find it unfair for Santander to rely on the relevant exception to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code here. Under the terms of the CRM Code, that means 
Santander need not reimburse Mr S (in full or in part) unless the bank did not meet all of the 
requirements of the CRM Code in relation to each payment.
Based on what Santander could reasonably have known at the time, I agree with the 
Investigator that the first five payments werent ones which would have particularly stood out 
as being at risk of being connected to a fraud or scam. These werent for remarkable sums, 
and on the face of things wouldnt have appeared linked to a scam involving cryptocurrency 
trading.
With this in mind I dont think Santander needed to give an Effective Warning under the 
terms of the CRM Code in relation to these payments, so I cannot find it at fault if it did not 
do so. And for similar reasons I dont think Santander needed to take specific steps at the 
time, such as intervening directly before it would release Mr Ss payments.
However, at the point of payment six, Mr S was making a second payment of over £1,000 to 
the same payee on the same date. This payment took him into his overdraft, and the payee was still one relatively new for Mr Ss account. All considered, while I accept this still 
wouldnt obviously have been a scam-related payment, I think the payment and context 
meant there was sufficient reason for the bank to have at least identified a possible APP 
Scam risk. That means the bank should have provided Mr S with an Effective Warning 
during the course of the relevant payment journey. 
Santander accepts it did not do so. The CRM Code says in such circumstances the liability 
for the resultant losses should be shared equally between the customer and the bank. 
Santander has now agreed to refund Mr S half of payments six and seven.
I do not find I can fairly require Santander to reimburse Mr S by more than this sum. I am 
satisfied that it has already offered to reimburse Mr S in line with the requirements of the 
CRM Code.
Ive thought about whether Santander should pay Mr S more than it has done, for any other 
reasons. But I dont find this applies. And when Santander was made aware of what had 
happened, it acted appropriately and promptly tried to recover the funds - although by that 
point the funds had been removed and none remained. I do not find the bank to have been 
at fault here.
I know this will be extremely disappointing for Mr S, but I dont find Santander needs to pay 
him more than the sum it has now offered him. All considered, I think it is fair for the loss to 
be shared equally between Santander and Mr S for payments six and seven, and I dont find 
the bank needs to reimburse him for payments one to five. That means I wont be asking the 
bank to increase the offer it has agreed to make. In short, it is my finding that Santanders 
current offer represents a fair settlement in all of the circumstances.
Putting things right
Santander says it agrees to reimburse Mr S half of payment six and payment seven together 
with the associated overdraft costs. So if Mr S accepts my decision, Santander should settle 
this complaint as follows:
Pay Mr S the sum of £805 (being half the value of payments six and seven) less any 
amounts already returned to Mr S; and,
Refund any overdraft costs incurred by Mr S which directly resulted from being 
deprived of that sum, from the date Santander initially declined to reimburse Mr Ss 
claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
Santander should settle the complaint on the above basis within 28 days of receiving 
confirmation that Mr S accepts this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander UK Plc in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman