DRN-4328376
The complaint
Miss O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost to a scam. 
What happened
Miss O says she was approached on a social media messaging service by a company Ill 
call U about working from home job opportunities. She said she researched U and they 
seemed legitimate to her. She says they provided her with a company certificate and she 
was vulnerable to believe it. 
Miss O says U provided a group chat with others on there sharing information about the job. 
She said shed seen people buy things with their money and review the products, so she 
didnt think much of it. She also saw people sharing screenshots of them getting money 
back. 
From 16 January 2023 to 18 January 2023, Miss O made the following payments from her 
Lloyds current account to two crypto exchange accounts in her name, from there the money 
was sent to the scammers. 
Transaction 
numberDate Merchant Amount
1 16 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £25
2 16 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £30
3 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £50
4 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £80
5 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £150
6 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £150
7 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £700
8 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £1,000
9 17 January 2023 Crypto exchange 1 £2,000
10 18 January 2023 Crypto exchange 2 £3,800
TOTAL £7,985
 
Miss O reported the scam to Lloyds. 
Lloyds issued its final response letter on 2 March 2023. It said it wouldnt be refunding Miss 
O. Unhappy with its response, Miss O referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. She noted Lloyds had intervened in Miss Os 
transactions but this didnt prevent Miss O from sending her payments. She felt Lloyds could 
have asked more questions but she wasnt persuaded theyd have made a difference. 
Miss O asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. The complaint has therefore been 
passed to me for determination. 
I wrote to both Miss O and Lloyds explaining I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. I 
said in summary that Miss O had proactively contacted Lloyds on 10 May 2022 to advise a 
company had asked her to complete a faster payment from her account. She said her friend 
told her about the job which involved leaving customer reviews to earn money. Lloyds 
explained that it couldnt understand why she would pay a company when it should be the 
opposite. Miss O said shed check with her friend and call Lloyds back. Lloyds recorded at 
the time that its conversation with Miss O indicated vulnerability/financial difficulty. There 
was no follow up by Miss O. 
I noted Miss O attempted to make a payment of £2,000 to crypto exchange 2 prior to 
transaction 9 and Lloyds declined this due to a fraud flag. It permitted transaction 9 and 
blocked transaction 10 and spoke with Miss O. 
I explained Lloyds should have reasonably spoken with Miss O prior to permitting transaction 
9, I felt a meaningful warning would have likely made a difference. But I felt that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Miss O to share responsibility of the loss and concluded that a 50% 
deduction was fair and reasonable. 
Lloyds didnt reply to my provisional findings.
Miss O replied and said on 17 January 2023, she made a total of seven transfers to crypto 
exchange 1. It was the first time shed sent money to a crypto exchange platform and 
believes the bank should have recognised the spending pattern. She said she appreciated 
my decision but would like that I include the rest of the transactions made on 17 January 
2023. She said shes suffered a significant financial loss and is in financial difficulties. She 
explained shes a mother of two small children and this has had a significant impact on her. 
Miss O said she appreciates the offer of 50% for the last two transactions but asked if it 
would be possible that the bank is held liable for all the transactions on 17 January 2023. 
She understands that the two small transactions on 16 January 2023 would have gone 
under the radar. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Miss O authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammers into instructing Lloyds to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Miss O was tricked. So although she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, Miss O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.The evidence provided indicates that Lloyds declined a transaction shortly after Miss O 
authorised transaction 8. That payment was declined due to a fraud flag. Lloyds permitted 
payment 9 but declined further attempted transactions until it spoke with Miss O. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether earlier payments should have reasonably been 
considered as unusual by Lloyds and I dont think they should have. Whilst Ive noted that 
Miss O normally made low value payments from her account, I cant reasonably say that 
transactions 1 to 8 ought to have been considered as so unusual and so suspicious that 
Lloyds should have reasonably checked with Miss O that all was well before processing 
them. Transactions 1 to 6 were £150 or less, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds should have 
suspected that Miss O was falling victim to a scam. They were very low value payments and 
even though four were taken on the same day, I dont think Lloyds should reasonably have 
intervened. 
Transactions 7 and 8 were the largest payments Miss O has made from her account and I 
agree that these did start to represent a change in the way Miss O operated her account. But 
I cant reasonably conclude that they would have appeared as so unusual and so suspicious 
when considering the day to day transactions customers make. These can include one-off 
larger payments. 
I accept Miss Os argument that shes not sent payments to crypto exchanges before. But 
payments to crypto exchanges dont always result in a scam, there are legitimate crypto 
transactions and Id expect Lloyds to be aware of this. 
However, when Miss O attempted a £2,000 transaction to crypto exchange 2, Lloyds 
blocked it and I think it should have reasonably suspected that Miss Os account was the 
subject of very unusual account activity. Her payments to crypto exchange 1 and crypto 
exchange 2 were increasing in frequency and amount. I think Lloyds should have reasonably 
intervened at this stage, I dont see that it did and in my judgement, this was a missed 
opportunity to do so. 
Ive noted that Lloyds declined further payments after it approved transaction 9 and spoke 
with Miss O prior to transaction 10. In my view I dont think the questions in the conversation 
went far enough. 
During the call, Lloyds asked Miss O about her payments, she said; So I put money in there 
to invest and the money goes up. And you gain more. I wouldve expected Lloyds to probe 
more about the investment, particularly as Miss O was progressively paying increased 
amounts to crypto  something shed not done before. 
Im satisfied Miss O answered Lloyds honestly during its questioning but the questioning 
didnt go as far as it reasonably should have. I have no reason to doubt that if Lloyds had 
asked more questions about what it was she was doing, shed have likely explained the job 
opportunity as she understood it to be. I think Lloyds no doubt would have quickly realised it 
was a scam.
Ive noted that Miss O proactively contacted Lloyds in May 2022 about a similar job 
opportunity. I can only assume this was to get some advice. The notes dont indicate that 
Lloyds said this was a scam but it did say that it didnt understand why she would have to 
pay. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss O made this payment after speaking with 
Lloyds. As Miss O clearly trusted Lloyds advice as a financial professional, I have no doubt that if it 
would have provided a meaningful warning at an earlier point, Miss O would likely have not 
sent any further payments to the scammer. 
In other words, but for Lloyds failure to provide a meaningful warning, Miss O would only 
have lost payments 1 to 8. I think a meaningful warning from Lloyds would have made a 
difference and Lloyds could have prevented further losses totalling £5,800. 
Ive also considered whether or not Miss O should be considered partially responsible for her 
losses here. In doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about contributory 
negligence but also kept in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I do find it unusual that Miss O didnt act more cautiously. I appreciate she says that she 
checked Us credentials and believed them to be genuine. I also understand she was looking 
for a job at the time but Im surprised she didnt find the proposal unusual  i.e. having to pay 
almost £8,000 to allow her to carry out a new job. She discussed a similar proposal with 
Lloyds seven months earlier where it said it didnt understand why she would have to pay 
and she doesnt appear to have gone through with it. I think she should have carried out 
more research on the proposal and shed likely have discovered that it was unlikely to be a 
legitimate operation. 
For that reason, I think its fair and reasonable for a 50% deduction to be made for any 
compensation payable. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Refund 50% of transactions 9 and 10. I calculate this to be £2,900.
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on the above sum from the respective dates they 
were paid to the date the settlement is paid (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman