DRN-3472908
The complaint
Mr E has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
invest in a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr E is represented 
in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In mid 2013 Mr E was employed as a tradesman age 50, earning about £30,000pa and living 
in rented accommodation with little in the way of savings or investments. He held a former 
group personal pension arrangement with Standard Life, invested in a balanced lifestyle 
strategy, which hed left in March 2013. His representative believes he was cold called by an 
unregulated firm called Consumer Money Matters (as this the firm who requested 
information from Standard Life in August 2013). However from what Ive seen this was a 
sister company of the firm that actually spoke to Mr E. 
Mr E has provided this service with correspondence from another unregulated firm called 
Your Choice Pensions (YCP), who he agreed to a home visit from. We know that CMIM had 
signed an introducer agreement with YCP. Mr E recalls being promised 7%pa returns on the 
hotel development which would lead to his investment doubling in value. 
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Es pension, on 10 September 2013 a new 
employer was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. Mr E would later have 
signed an employment contract with that company, and on 12 October 2013 he signed terms 
of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for the 
purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
Mr E is also likely to have signed an indicative investment form at around this time, setting 
out how much of his pension he was looking to invest in TRG and how much in CMIMs 
discretionary fund management (DFM) service. I havent seen a copy of this form but, 
judging by subsequent events there may not have been an intention to invest any funds into 
the DFM service.
On 11 October 2013 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Es new employer with 
him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The fee to set up 
the scheme was £750+VAT, followed by £500+VAT annually. CGL then made an (undated) 
request to transfer of Mr Es Standard Life pension policy using forms signed by Mr E on 28 
October 2013, and most likely provided by YCP or its sister company. A few weeks later on 
19 November 2013 Mr E has a copy of a letter from YCP saying:
Please find enclosed written advice on your chosen investment into commercial property in Cape 
Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited under 
your instruction for your consideration.
Mr E has a copy of the enclosed written advice  a so-called dear Trustee letter. The letter 
does not refer to him by name and mentions that the business has been introduced by YCP. 
It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with advice that it understands to be 
unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and furthermore, the TRG investment 
involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed. Investments held overseas may have additional risks such 
as currency fluctuations, which may impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; 
political risk to ownership and title; and commercial risk to the delivery and management of a 
property/resort. You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these 
issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should be 
held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification 
carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities 
and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as 
against other such investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you 
seek independent financial advice
The letter went on to propose CMIMs MVA Balanced Portfolio to provide the suggested 
diversification into other, lower risk investments. There was a delay in Standard Life agreeing to transfer Mr Es funds, so subsequently on 3 March 2014 he signed a letter confirming his 
instructions to invest in TRG were based on the above advice. The standard wording in use by 
CGL at that time read as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in 
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately 
qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the 
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms  of
(a) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
(b) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
On 14 March 2014 CGL received a transfer of £67,452 from Standard Life. It wrote back to 
Mr E on 18 March 2014 to confirm receipt of his investment instructions and that £64,166 
had been invested into TRGs Dunas Beach resort. So, this was more than the 50% 
benchmark suggested if (and I dont know if this was the case) Mr E had been looking to 
retire within 10 years.
My understanding from other cases is that discounts were offered on the purchase, paid 
back to investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa until the resort opened. In Mr Es case, 
that happened in September 2014, so he only received a total of £2,620 from this discount. 
Resort rental income then started from May 2015 at around £200 per quarter, increasing 
towards £300 during 2017 before dropping in 2018. At the time Mr E gathered information for 
his complaint, hed recently received a £222 quarterly income payment in March 2019. But I 
gather these payments have since tailed off.
The UK limited company via which Mr E invested into TRG had entered into separate 
contracts with developers to build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it. CGL 
went on to administer the employer Mr E had set up as well as the pension scheme  
completing annual returns and accounts at Companies House for it. On Mr Es 2018 SSAS 
statement it was valued at £68,447 including £4,280 in the SSAS bank account. He then 
withdrew a £4,000 tax-free cash sum from the bank account shortly after his 55th birthday on 
25 September 2018. No other income was taken at that time, but I note from his bank 
statements that Mr E also accessed a small amount from a Scottish Widows pension.
Mr Es representative complained to CMIM in January 2020 that the investment in TRG was 
wholly inappropriate for his SSAS, given its fluctuating income was insufficient to pay the 
SSAS fees and the lack of liquidity in the investment. It also complained that the SSAS itself 
was unsuitable for him. CMIM didnt respond to the complaint, or initially to requests for 
information from our investigator when it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
in May 2020. Subsequently it employed a legal representative to deal with the complaint. 
Mr E told our investigator that he was interested in doing something different with his 
pension as he had lost his previous job. After speaking to the YCP agent (who he was told 
was regulated) in his home he wanted to have some time to think, but the agent wouldnt 
leave without his signature. He subsequently looked TRG up online and believed it to be 
reputable, although his originally intended investment (Llana Beach Hotel) was switched to 
the Dunas Resort. The transfer represented his main pension provision alongside a small 
local authority pension and his current employers scheme.
CMIM has made a number of submissions, both on this case and during the course of very 
similar complaints for other individuals, some of which I have already decided some time 
ago. I summarise all of its points below:
Much of CMIMs data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. CMIMs only financial benefit 
arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It 
attended numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky and only appropriate when considered as part of a 
diverse portfolio where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its DFM 
services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk portfolio of 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr E or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to DFM (which did not happen in this 
case). To the best of its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter appeared to be very close to the 
Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was placed on this 
letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they also had their 
own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and investors. 
It believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
The most recent investigators view of 12 November 2021
The investigator considered that Mr Es complaint should be upheld for these reasons:
CMIM advised Mr E on the investment even though it didnt make a personal 
recommendation to him to purchase it. 
As TRG was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS), it was also 
promoting it in circumstances where a valid exemption to the normal restrictions on 
promotion didnt appear to apply. If not, the promotion was unlawful.
The only possible relevant exemption was where he was a newly accepted client of 
CMIM and the investment was suitable for him. But as CMIMs terms of business 
excluded advice given under s22 of FSMA, it couldnt meet the required definition of 
being a written agreement relating to designated investment business.
It was difficult to see how the advice achieved the purpose of s.36 of PA95, because 
that envisaged a suitability assessment specific to Mr Es SSAS and therefore a 
personal recommendation. It would also have been consistent with the FCAs 
principles and rules for CMIM to make such a personal recommendation.
CMIM should have realised that investing such a high proportion of Mr Es wealth in TRG was unsuitable and contrary to regulatory expectations for UCIS advice  
particularly for someone who was of average attitude to risk.
Mr E was considering doing something with his pension at the time but didnt have 
particularly strong ties to doing what YCP and then CMIM were suggesting. He would 
have most likely transferred his whole pension to a different provider than CGL and not 
invested in TRG, had CMIM advised him properly.
CMIM has responded by way of letters covering several complaints simultaneously. It didnt 
agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous admissions. 
The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr E did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr E were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr E to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr E to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Es loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Es losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr E to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr E to invest in TRG?
I should start by saying Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (amongst other things) as advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mr E would be participating in a (named) pooled property 
scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole.
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Es investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that CMIM wasnt, at least, carrying out the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it attended numerous 
preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed documentation regarding the 
investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and as to risk. However, advice 
given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught by chapter 9 of COBS  
the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And its dear Trustee letter reminds Mr E that it hadnt 
assessed those circumstances. 
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
So, the part of the definition before the word or indicates its possible to make a personal 
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presented 
in such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as 
being suitable for them in particular. But if I approach this from Mr Es position I have to take 
into account that CMIM told him it wasnt making a personal recommendation; he knew he 
hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it. 
On balance, I think Mr E ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt 
for him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as 
an appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr E felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have 
carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had personally 
contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly 
a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by 
it, separately, encouraging him to seek further independent advice. If it thought he was better 
off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised him at all. And its open to me to 
consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at 
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9. 
Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note that as TRG was a 
UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr E, ancillary to its advice?The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr E to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr E had already decided to invest in TRG  he had most 
likely completed an indicative investment form  so the dear Trustee letter would not have 
been pivotal in his thinking. I dont necessarily agree with that, but more importantly I dont 
think its relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this 
further at PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
( 1 ) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
( 2 ) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients  and I count Mr E in that 
category  to draw. I say this in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term: here Mr 
E was at the relatively young age of 50 in the retirement context;
- CMIM suggesting it was possible to mitigate the risks of TRG by diversifying: it 
recommended a DFM portfolio, but Mr E would have been aware he also had other 
pensions he was not transferring;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition: Mr E had in any event demonstrated in the Standard Life policy that he had 
a more balanced appetite.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr E to take his own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed 
him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if he wasnt cautious or needing 
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way: CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment.
It would have been apparent to CMIM at the time that third parties had quite a lot of influence 
over what the trustees did; this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely 
to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in persuading Mr E to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how 
much attention Mr E paid to its advice, CGL would have expected him to sign an instruction 
declaring that he had regard for it in making his investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise 
this is what would follow, then it should have done given it said it was giving its advice for the 
purposes of that Act.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Mr E was simply signing where a third party told him 
shouldnt have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs advice an 
inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the 
view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mr E to invest because of vested interests, yet it 
was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation 
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in 
certain specified (and limited) circumstances. I wont go into this in detail here because Mr E 
received his dear Trustee letter more than a month before this date. But I mention it as it  
demonstrates advising on (and not just personally recommending) an investment can also 
amount to a promotion: the very nature of promotion means that it does not have to be 
targeted to a specific individual.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though 
YCP may also have promoted it originally, and even though didnt make a personal 
recommendation).
Did Mr E qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion? 
Mr E is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since. 
I also cant see that any of the other exemptions were available under COBS 4.12.1R  not 
least because Mr E doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated investor 
and didnt have any of the other professions or roles specified. At the time the dear Trustee 
letter was sent to Mr E on 19 November 2013 the only other relevant COBS exemption was 
a Category 2 person, being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the 
same group as the firm 
Mr E was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly 
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e. 
activities which were regulated by the FCA). I agree with the investigator that as Mr Es 
agreement with CMIM specifically excluded such regulated activities, he could not have met 
the definition of a newly accepted client.
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr E, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to Mr E 
previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr E paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letterCMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Mr E to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr E thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr E would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice.
Mr E was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I 
think he the most he would have reasonably understood was that he was getting an 
appropriately qualified opinion on whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in 
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that 
Mr E was misled if CMIM now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. 
And at a fundamental level, I dont think Mr Es inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear 
Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mr E) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr E to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Es investment 
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the 
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments. 
In any event, its just as difficult to see it was possible for advice that was stated in the terms 
of business to enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of 
PA95 not to be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small 
size, most of the regulations in the secondary Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) 
Regulations 2005 dont cover Mr Es SSAS. But regulation 7 does, and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in the investment instruction CGL required Mr E to sign. 
And I cant fairly say it was possible for him to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, 
and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS, without a 
recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of that SSAS.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
- take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if 
YCP remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later
heard from them because theyd signed up for its DFM service (which didnt happen in this 
case). That calls into question whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3. I also think 
Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care CMIM should take in formulating 
advice (whether thats a personal recommendation or not).
In observance of these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM 
could reasonably take:
1. Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr E at all; or
2. Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr E, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Note that if the recommendation was not to invest in TRG, this would not amount 
to promotion and so the restrictions on promotion wouldnt be breached.
- Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr E directly, rather than supplying it via 
third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mr E, 
if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was in 
favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or indicated it would make 
direct recommendations against investing, I accept its possible that those parties would 
have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome.
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr E was required to take 
couldnt just be given by any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given 
by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of 
that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected; and the consequences giving advice in favour of 
investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
Ive also taken into account that CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising
Mr E at all, but it chose to give advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held 
to the standard of the proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr E to 
satisfy the regulators expectations and those reasonably implied by PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It
ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up the majority of a SSAS was 
plainly unsuitable for an inexperienced investor of at most a pre-existing balanced risk 
outlook. It should have been apparent that Mr E could ill afford to take the speculative risk 
investing almost all of his SSAS in TRG entailed, given that it was a substantial part of his 
deferred pension provision, and in my view Mr E is unlikely to have had the experience to 
appreciate this for himself.
There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property 
development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks
 to counter that presumption of unsuitability. Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS 
being introduced to Mr E by other parties was in order to invest in TRG. And owing to 
Standard Lifes delay in making the transfer, Mr E received CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
before it sent his funds to the SSAS. So I need to consider how Mr E would have acted, if 
CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG.
Im mindful that could have led to a recommendation for DFM on his whole portfolio. But 
demonstrably, Mr E would then have obtained advice that wasnt in favour of investing in 
TRG  so I find it unlikely that the other parties involved would have been interested in him 
proceeding to transfer to the SSAS on that basis. To secure the TRG investment they 
needed advice in favour of it to comply with PA95 and as I said above I think its reasonable 
to conclude that other regulated firms should also have advised against TRG.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme 
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such 
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It would also 
have played further into the checks Standard Life was carrying out to mitigate against 
pension liberation/scams that were already delaying the transfer here.
Ive taken into account that Mr E didnt instigate the advice here and hadnt built up a long-
standing relationship of trust with the YCP agent. He didnt even meet CMIM. As CMIM itself 
realises, its name was brought on board to legitimise Mr Es investment in TRG. It did so  
to the extent that Mr E was prepared to invest all his SSAS in TRG, I expect on the basis 
that his other pensions invested less speculatively. But CMIMs advice should have far from 
legitimised the investment. It should have made very clear that it was unsuitable for him.
Once that opinion had been given I cant safely say it could easily have been undone by 
any attempts to refer Mr E to other advisers. Im satisfied the more likely outcome is that any 
further attempts to secure his TRG investment would have failed in the light of CMIMs 
advice. As a result, Mr E would have had a reason to (and had time to) abort any request in 
the pipeline for his Standard Life funds to be transferred to this SSAS. Im mindful of Mr Es 
comments that he was already thinking about changing to another pension arrangement, 
and have taken that into account in the redress proposals which follow.Should I only apportion part of Mr Es losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know 
whether Mr E intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational 
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a 
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and 
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mr E has chosen to bring this 
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Es own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services.
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr E as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it 
shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr E would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him 
CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that 
on the balance of probabilities Mr E would still have gone ahead with transferring his pension 
to this SSAS in order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated him fairly.
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mr E would not have transferred to the 
SSAS. I think the effect of CMIM placing a barrier in Mr Es way would have been more likely 
to deter his ultimate investment than not. I think its likely he would have heeded the proper 
advice he was told he would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM. If an investigator 
has taken a different view on causation on another complaint, then either party may refer 
that view to an ombudsman. I may not have agreed with that view.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr E in the position he would have been in, 
had he not gone ahead with the transfer from Standard Life to the SSAS. As he was already 
considering making a transfer I think its most likely that he would have transferred to 
another personal pension arrangement commensurate with his existing balanced attitude to 
risk.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore calculate a fair value for 
the funds Mr E originally transferred to the SSAS as at the date of my final decision, as if 
they had increased in value in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index. 
CMIM may wish to check that no further tax-free cash or income payments have been taken 
from the SSAS than the £4,000 tax-free cash payment on 25 September 2018. The gross 
amounts of these payments should be deducted from the fair value at the dates they were 
paid, whilst it accrues at the above benchmark.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income index (on a total return basis) is made up of a range 
of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although it 
is called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr E's 
circumstances and likely risk attitude.It doesnt mean that Mr E would have made investments that exactly mirrored the return on 
this index. For that reason CMIM shouldnt be deducting investment costs or other charges 
from the benchmark. The view Im taking here is that the sort of funds Mr E would have 
chosen for his personal pension would typically have performed broadly in line with this 
benchmark; notwithstanding the charges (which would have been lower than the SSAS in 
any event). It is a proxy that is being used for the purposes of compensation.
The actual value of Mr Es CGL SSAS as at the date of my final decision should be deducted 
from this notional value to arrive at Mr Es initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding 
administration charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the 
actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That may be the case with the TRG holding in the CGL 
SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should 
include anything CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the TRG investment from the CGL SSAS it 
should value it as nil, as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that Mr E 
should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS and 
move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. Third 
parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. So to 
provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of 
future SSAS administration fees at the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to 
allow a reasonable period of time for the CGL SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not
actually prepared to (or unable to) buy the investment from the SSAS. I also cannot 
anticipate whether TRG will be permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal 
processes would be involved. But to the extent that this is possible, if CMIM believes that the 
investment has value then it can benefit by buying the investment out of the SSAS. 
If CMIM is not taking ownership of the investment, it may ask Mr E instead to provide an 
undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive 
from the investment in future. The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of 
Mr Es losses. If CMIM wishes to do this the undertaking should be drawn up after 
compensation is paid  and CMIM will need to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to 
set the terms of the assignment and undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving 
overall fairness for both parties. If CMIM asks Mr E to provide this undertaking, payment of 
the compensation awarded may be made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax 
protections or allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay that amount 
direct to Mr E. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Es actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr E is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. But 
as he would be yet to take his tax-free cash sum in respect of the majority of the fair value, 
the adjustment should only apply to 75% of the compensation, giving a composite reduction 
of 15% overall.
CMIM must also pay Mr E £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr E in a clear, simple format.
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Es loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Es rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint and award compensation as set out in the Putting things right 
section above. If Mr E accepts this decision and compensation is not paid within 28 days of 
CMIM being notified of his acceptance, interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of the final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman