DRN-1851809
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Lloyds Bank PLC allowing an account to be applied for in his 
name.
What happened
In September 2019, an ID thief tried to open an online account in Mr Rs name. They got 
past the first stage of the application, but were not able to pass the identification checks. So 
Lloyds asked Mr R whether it was really him whod applied.
Mr R confirmed it wasnt him, so Lloyds cancelled the application and the account was never 
opened.
Mr R returned home to find that someone had broken his front door and stolen his post. He 
feels this is Lloyds responsibility. He is unhappy with the fact that banks offer online 
applications in general. He feels that if Lloyds did not offer this account, then the fraudsters 
wouldve never tried stealing his post. He would like Lloyds to pay for his door.
Lloyds did not agree that they were responsible for someone breaking his door.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She noted 
that Lloyds had caught the fraudulent application and prevented the account from opening. 
She explained that it was the regulator who looked at wider processes, not our service. And 
she explained that Lloyds had not directly or indirectly damaged the door. 
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
First, I will say that I understand Mr R has been the victim of a crime here, and so he has my 
sympathy  I can imagine that the fraudsters have caused him a great deal of distress, and 
Im sorry to hear about the damage they did to his property.
Like our investigator said, its the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who 
regulate businesses and their processes. Were not the right service to address Mr Rs wider 
points about how he thinks accounts should and shouldnt be opened. The FCA can look into 
those sorts of things, and Mr R is free to get in touch with them  though I should explain 
that they dont usually comment on individual situations.
I can consider whether Lloyds should pay Mr R compensation for his door. When we think 
about awarding compensation, we first ask: did the bank do something substantially wrong 
here? We then look at compensation only if the answer is yes. 
Here, it looks like Lloyds followed their proper checks, checked in with Mr R, identified the 
fraud before the account could be opened, and prevented the fraudsters from ever using the 
account. So I dont think Lloyds did anything substantially wrong here. It follows that I dont 
think I can fairly tell them to pay compensation for what happened.
To be clear, I do empathise with Mr R, and completely understand why hed like his door 
fixed. But Lloyds didnt damage Mr Rs door; the thief did. I think the damage was due to the 
actions of the thief, rather than the actions of Lloyds.
I do think it would be helpful for Lloyds to notify the relevant fraud prevention agencies that 
Mr R has been the victim of impersonation. By adding such a marker, it warns other 
businesses to take extra precautions when an account is applied for in Mr Rs name in the 
next year or so. 
If they have not already done so, Lloyds should record a victim of impersonation marker for 
Mr R.
My final decision
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to notify the relevant fraud prevention agencies that Mr R was the 
victim of impersonation  if theyve not already done so.
Otherwise, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman