DRN-1692302
 
The complaint
Miss R and Mr W are unhappy with the final amount that their insurers, Royal and Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), have offered for the cost of work to repair the damage that 
was caused to their home following a shower leak. 
Miss R and Mr W think that RSA should instead pay the amount that their own builders have 
quoted for the repair work. This figure is more than double the amount that RSA has offered.
What happened
Damage was caused to three rooms in Miss R and Mr Ws home because their shower 
leaked.  
Under the terms of their home insurance, RSA could arrange for repair work to be 
undertaken. Alternatively, RSA could pay the cost of the work to repair the damage. 
According to the terms of the policy, this amount would not exceed the smaller of: the cost 
had the work been completed by its nominated contractor; or the cost based on the most 
competitive estimate of the customers chosen contractor. 
Miss R and Mr W arranged themselves for some emergency plumbing work to stop the leak.  
Miss R and Mr W also arranged themselves for repair work to be completed by a builder. 
They did this because they wanted a fully functioning bathroom as quickly as possible both 
for their own needs and also because they were about to have visitors to stay. 
They have explained that RSA did not reply to them when promised and they felt they had 
no choice therefore but to get on with the work that was needed themselves, or alternatively 
to incur hotel costs. 
In addition, they explain that they relied on RSAs surveyors comments, when he came to 
inspect the damage. They explain that he indicated what he thought the work would cost, 
and he asked Miss R and Mr W to provide a copy of the breakdown of the work that their 
own builders had already provided a quotation for. 
Because of these comments, added to the fact that the surveyor had not come back to Miss 
R and Mr W when promised, they got their own builder to start work so they could get a 
bathroom operational quickly. 
When the surveyor came back to them with the cost that he had calculated for work, which 
was considerably less than what their own builders said it would cost, Miss R and Mr W 
immediately stopped further building work. By this time however work had been carried out, 
that included getting one bathroom working. Miss R and Mr W complained to RSA about the situation. They wanted RSA to agree to pay 
the amount that their builder had quoted for the repairs. RSA would not pay this amount and 
its final offer was rejected by Miss R and Mr W who then brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint carefully, but he did not uphold it because he 
considered that RSA had acted reasonably. 
Miss R and Mr W did not agree with our investigator and asked for a review by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I do not uphold the complaint.  
While I do not doubt that Miss R and Mr W felt they were taking reasonable steps in all the 
circumstances described above, I cannot agree with their view that the insurers should now 
pay the amount that their own builder has quoted. 
At the time when Miss R and Mr W decided to instruct their own builders to complete repair 
work, there was no agreement with RSA as to the amount that would be paid for the claim. 
Without such an agreement, the customers took this step at their own risk.
RSAs surveyor said he would get back to them in the week commencing 25 March, but Miss 
R says he did not do get back to them until 8 April, two weeks later. And when she chased in 
the meantime, he said he had forgotten.  Although frustrating, that did not mean however 
that it was reasonable to expect the insurers to pay their own builders quotation, when an 
amount had not yet been agreed.  
It was also very unfortunate that a misunderstanding occurred when the surveyor visited the 
property to assess the damage on 23 March.  Miss R and Mr W had understood from what 
the surveyor had said, that his estimate for the work was likely to be within a certain cost 
range. On that basis they felt they could get on with the work and instruct a builder who was 
available. 
Miss R and Mr W said the surveyors estimate was much lower than had been given on site. 
When Miss R complained about this, the surveyor explained that while he did suggest a 
figure that he could imagine local builders may have quoted, he made clear that this was not 
his estimate for the work. He had to carefully calculate this based on the insurers scope and 
would come back to Miss R and Mr W about this.  
The evidence also shows that Miss R signed paperwork, on the day the surveyor visited, to 
show that she understood that a settlement figure had not been provided at that point but 
that it was to be confirmed. 
While these circumstances are unfortunate, it does not follow that the insurers settlement 
figure should be in line with the quotation of Miss R and Mr Ws builder. 
The insurance policy document is clear. In the event of damage the insurer can arrange for 
repairs to be undertaken for the customer. Or the insurer will pay the smaller of, RSAs own 
estimate for the cost of repair work by their own contractors, or the customers own best 
quotation for the work.  The reason for this is that insurers can obtain repair work at a lower 
cost than is achievable by their customers. In this case the smaller figure is RSAs own estimate. I think that RSA has appropriately and reasonably offered this amount plus sums 
to try to resolve matters. 
For example, even though the insurers emergency line was not used by the customers, it 
offered a sum to cover the fees the customers incurred in arranging their own emergency 
help. 
In addition, the terms of the policy state that any damaged items must be retained to be 
inspected. This is because the insurer is entitled to inspect damage to prove the claim. By 
disposing of the damaged items Miss R and Mr W prejudiced RSAs ability to do this. But 
RSA still offered to pay for a new shower enclosure, tray and shower even though these had 
been disposed of before the surveyor visited.  Miss R and Mr W explained that a new 
shower was necessary because the grouting on the one that had been removed meant that 
it could not be re-fitted satisfactorily.   
Finally, RSA, within its final offer, has included a disturbance payment covering the period  
when the customers explained they were without fully functioning washing facilities. 
In summary, I understand Miss Rs and Mr Ws reasons for their complaint. They wanted to 
get on with the work so they had an operational bathroom quickly. They felt they had no 
choice but to instruct their own builder pointing to the two week delay in the surveyor coming 
back to them with his estimate for work. And they also felt they helped the insurer to a 
degree by avoiding hotel expenses.  But these matters had to be discussed and agreed with 
the insurers at the time  and no such agreement was in place to either pay a specific sum 
or to pay Miss Rs and Mr Ws builders quotation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am not upholding this complaint because I consider that RSAs 
final settlement offer is in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy and is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
 
Rachel Pillinger
Ombudsman