DRN-3384764
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a stocks and shares ISA in 2002, by Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax, referred to as the business.  
What happened
In July 2002, Mr S invested £7,000 into the ISA, invested in the Growth Fund, a FTSE 
tracker fund. In due course he made some withdrawals and then surrendered the investment 
and received back £6,100. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In a final response letter, it said:
The ISA was taken out as a Direct Offer which means we did not give you any advice 
regarding the suitability of the investment. Halifax Financial Services sent you a letter 
confirming no advice had been given. I have enclosed a copy.
As no advice was given at the time you invested into the ISA the onus would have been on 
you to consider the suitability
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
A letter dated 8 July 2002, in respect of the sale of the ISA confirmed the following:
oYour money has been invested in the Halifax Tracker Trust as shown on the 
enclosed contract note. No advice has been given on the suitability of the 
investment, as this Trust is designed for investors, like yourself, who are 
happy to make their own informed decision.  
The statement confirmed that despite what Mr S says, advice wasnt given and that 
he made the decision to invest himself. Therefore, Mr S was responsible for deciding 
whether (or not) to go ahead with the investment and whether (or not) it was suitable 
for him.  
In the circumstances, the investigator cant say that the business acted unfairly. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he maintains that the business behaved unfairly. 
The business confirmed that it had no further points to make.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the Mr S says,
Im unable to safely conclude that this was an advised sale.
Mr S has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that the 
investment was taken out on a direct basis. In other words, it was sold without financial 
advice.
I think its likely Mr S bought the investment of his own volition, by filling out an application
form and as a result, Im unable to consider the suitability of it. Whether or not it was the right 
thing to do, I believe the onus was on him to make sure it was suitable for his circumstances. 
Even if the product carried too much risk, I cant safely conclude that the business was 
responsible for this.
In the circumstances, I also have to consider the documentary evidence available from the
point of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied the policy documentation supplied before Mr S
applied for the investment was clear, fair and not misleading. If Mr S felt he didnt have 
enough information or needed further explanation or independent financial advice, he ought 
to have asked the business for this. 
In this instance, a lack of the necessary documents  such as the fact find or suitability letter 
 persuades me that this probably wasnt an advised sale. It certainly doesnt allow me to 
conclude that this was an advised sale. 
I note that the business is adamant it made clear that this wasnt an advised sale. I note the 
letter dated 8 July 2002, in response to Mr Ss application made clear that advice wasnt 
given and that he could cancel the investment if he changed his mind.  
Having taken all the factors into consideration, on balance Im unable to safely conclude that
this was an advised sale and therefore I dont uphold this complaint. Whilst I appreciate Mr
Ss frustration, Im unable to require the business to do anything because I dont think it has 
mis-sold the policy.
I appreciate Mr S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator.
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman