DRN-2036484
The complaint
The directors of L complain on behalf of the company that James Trickett & Son 
(Insurances) Limited (Tricketts) failed to provide an adequate service in relation to the 
companys fleet insurance renewal. Briefly, L says that Tricketts only told L at the last minute 
that it had only been able to find one, much more expensive, renewal quotation  and it was 
also a three year agreement. 
 
What happened
Ls fleet insurance was due for renewal on 1 August 2017. The directors were on holiday the 
week before this, returning on 31st July 2017.
On 27 July 2017, Tricketts emailed one of Ls directors informing him of a problem with Ls 
fleet insurance renewal and asking him to contact it as soon as he returned from holiday. 
One of Ls directors called into Tricketts office at 4:30 on 31st July. He said that Tricketts 
then told him that Ls current insurers wouldnt be renewing Ls fleet policy. And Tricketts had 
only been able to find one renewal quotation, which was for more than double the premium 
of the previous year. Tricketts also told him that Ls current insurers were unwilling to grant 
an extension of any length to give them more time to search for alternatives. 
Ls director says that he panicked, and feeling that he had no choice, agreed to the new 
policy, not realising that it was also a three year agreement. 
L complained to Tricketts. Tricketts tried to contact the directors by phone, but didnt send a 
written response. 
Ls directors asked our service to look into what had happened. They made the following 
points, in summary: 
Tricketts poor service had unreasonably left them with no choice but to sign up for 
the new policy. 
Tricketts had failed to act in Ls best interests and should have given them more 
notice. 
The increased premiums have had a major impact on the business and put the 
directors under considerable stress. 
Other brokers had told them that there were always alternatives to these kind of 
policies and they would never have acted as Tricketts did. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think that Tricketts had done 
anything wrong. He said that Tricketts had tried various means to obtain other cover and had 
in fact found two quotations, not just one. Tricketts had also reduced their renewal 
commission by £2,500 as a goodwill gesture to L. 
Ls directors disagreed. They said that Tricketts should have informed them earlier  and 
before they went on holiday - that Ls existing insurers wouldnt be renewing. They also 
provided a supporting letter from another broker, in which the other broker said that several 
other insurers would have given L cover on better terms.  
Because L disagreed with our investigator, I now need to make a final decision. After I read 
the file, I wrote to the directors on 5 August to give them my preliminary thoughts on their 
complaint. In particular, I considered their point that they didnt realise the new policy was for 
three years when they signed up. In summary, I said: 
Tricketts renewal invitation letter made it clear that it was a three year policy. 
Tricketts also said that the discussion with the directors centred on the impact of the 
potential savings or increases in premiums in future years, depending on claims 
history. 
Based on the above, I thought it was more likely than not that Tricketts had made 
them aware of the fact that it was a three year policy, although I accepted that their 
panic may have led to them not focussing on it. 
I also thought Tricketts had done enough to find L cover. 
I agreed that it would have been better practice for Tricketts to have let Ls directors 
know sooner that their existing insurers wouldnt be renewing. But I wasnt persuaded 
this had made any difference, as I didnt think the extra time would have enabled 
them to find a cheaper premium. 
Tricketts directors disagreed. They said:
They were left with half an hour to find alternative insurance. How could that be fair? 
Other brokers had told them that what Tricketts had done was the worst practice 
theyd ever heard of. 
Other brokers also said that alternative quotations could have been obtained with 
more time. 
How could Tricketts claim that the three year policy might save them money, when it 
cost more than twice as much? 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the directors, but Im not going to uphold it. Ill 
explain why below. 
Did Tricketts treat its customer fairly and make a suitable recommendation to L? 
In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Ls contract with 
Tricketts, the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook rules set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook, as well as relevant best practice. 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence of what steps Tricketts took to find alternative insurance 
for L. I can see that as soon as it learnt that the previous insurers wouldnt renew, Tricketts 
and its Lloyds broker started seeking new cover. 
I think its important to bear in mind the context for this renewal. Im satisfied that the market 
for fleet insurance was difficult that the time, with several insurers having withdrawn from 
offering this product and premiums rising across the board - but particularly for those with a material claims history like Ls. This was partly due to something called the Ogden discount 
rate, which was changed by the government in early 2017, causing premiums to rise. 
Tricketts contacted some insurers direct, but also deployed a second Lloyd's broker, when 
its usual broker said that it was having difficulty finding anyone to quote, to make sure they 
were exploring the Lloyd's market fully. From this, Tricketts managed to find two alternatives, 
but the second was even more expensive, and from an insurer without an external rating. So 
it considered that the three year policy was more suitable for L.  
Ive looked carefully at the timeline of Tricketts actions and I can see that Tricketts, or 
brokers acting for it, were actively seeking new insurers as soon as it had the claims history 
and was made aware that the previous insurers wouldnt renew. 
Ls directors seem to be suggesting that the fact that the policy was a three year agreement 
made it unsuitable. They seem to attribute much of the hardship the business has suffered to 
the three year agreement. But Im not persuaded this is fair. Clearly, the fact that the policy 
was much more expensive per year than Ls old policy has had a major detrimental impact. 
But I think any one year policy willing to give cover would have been at least as expensive, if 
not more so. Indeed, the one insurer that Tricketts found willing to quote on a one year basis 
charged a significantly higher annual premium. 
The three year contract offered the benefit of security  a significant advantage given the 
difficulty of finding any insurer willing to quote. Given that I understand Ls claims experience 
was even worse in the following year, I think had it bought a one year policy, it would have 
found things even more difficult  and expensive  on renewal. The policy also offered 
potential savings in years two and three, in the event of an improved claims history. 
My conclusion is that Tricketts did enough to find L the cover it needed in a difficult market. 
And I dont think the policy it recommended was unsuitable. 
Did Tricketts make Ls directors aware it was a three year agreement?
I wrote to the directors with my thoughts on this on 5 August. In their reply, the directors 
didnt dispute my findings. So I see no reason to change my view that Tricketts did make 
them aware it was a three year contract. 
Ive reached this conclusion on the basis that the documentation signed by the directors is 
headed clearly 3 year Camatics agreement and starts with an introduction pointing out that 
the period of agreement expires in 2020. Ive also seen evidence that Tricketts highlighted in 
a bulletpoint in its renewal invitation letter that it was a three year agreement. Tricketts says 
this was given to one of the directors in person on 31 July and I think that it is more likely 
than not that Tricketts did hand over this letter. 
Tricketts has also said that the discussion that took place in its offices centred around the 
way the agreement worked, with potential savings or increases in future years depending on 
Ls claims history at that point. Other than Tricketts account of this, there isnt any evidence 
of what was discussed. But the directors havent disputed this version of events and it seems 
to me more likely than not that some discussion along these lines would have taken place. 
Having said all this, I realise that the director who attended Tricketts offices was probably in 
something of a state of shock at the time, having just been given the price. It would be 
understandable if he were focussing on how the business could cope with the substantial 
premium increase. But my conclusion is that Tricketts did enough reasonably to make him 
aware of it. Was Tricketts communication about the renewal timely enough?
The directors of L believe that Tricketts main error was not informing them of the problem 
with the renewal earlier. They point out that they were only on holiday at the end of July and 
Tricketts knew that the policy wouldnt be renewed on the 4 July. 
I agree it would have been better practice for Tricketts to have let the directors know earlier 
that their current insurers had withdrawn from the market. But I'm not persuaded it made any 
difference to what happened. I know the directors believe that they could have found 
cheaper cover. And I appreciate that other brokers have suggested this might have been 
possible too. But these brokers are saying this with the benefit of hindsight, having not tried 
at the time. 
As Ive already said, Tricketts sought direct quotations from the major insurers operating in 
the fleet market, as well as using two different Lloyds brokers, and it was only able to find 
two insurers willing to quote. I see no reason to believe that extra time would have enabled 
the directors to find a cheaper option, when Tricketts could not. 
Ive seen evidence that Tricketts alerted the directors to the problem by email on 27 July. 
The delay between this and Ls director coming into the office on the 31 July was not the 
brokers fault, as it was the result of the unfortunate timing of the directors holiday. 
For this reason, I dont think Tricketts failure to alert the directors earlier to what was 
happening made any difference to the outcome of the renewal. I dont think it was 
responsible for the hardship L has endured. So it wouldnt be fair for me to award any 
compensation.  
I also note that Tricketts did agree to rebate £2,500 of its brokerage fee to L, which it wasnt 
obliged to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman