DRN-3459686
The complaint
Mr W complaints that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd declined a claim under his 
furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr Ws sofa was covered under a Furniture Protection Plan with Fortegra. In October 2021 
he contacted Fortegra to make a claim because his daughter had spilled milk in two areas of 
his corner sofa.
Fortegra sent one of its technicians to inspect the damage. The technician reported multiple 
and major unknown food, drink stains, general soiling/stain build up over all areas of 4 seat 
corner unitcaused by 3 young children. Best recommendation far too many stains/soiling 
for standard call out, full overall cleaning of all areas required to resolve customers claim. I 
can quote to complete this job - price would be £289.
Fortegra declined the claim explaining the policy excluded cover for damage that had 
occurred over time. It also said the staining hadnt been reported within a reasonable 
timeframe.
Mr W explained some of the stains had happened during lockdown and he hadnt made a 
claim because he hadnt wanted to put his daughter at risk from Covid because shed been 
experiencing health issues. 
Fortegra maintained its position explaining the policy provided cover for sudden and single 
incidents of accidental damage and staining. So Mr W complained to this service. He 
explained the milk spillage had happened in October. Hed contacted Fortegra the next day 
but it said it wouldnt clean milk stains because there were other stains he hadnt previously 
reported. He said those stains had occurred during lockdown and he hadnt contacted 
Fortegra because of his daughters health issues.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied the staining 
wasnt sudden or accidental and the policy didnt provide cover for damage resulting from 
general wear and tear.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He 
argued he hadnt reported the earlier stains because he was following the Governments 
rules. Hes had the sofa professionally cleaned and feels hes paid Fortegra for a service he 
hadnt received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fortegra said the older stains hadnt been notified within a reasonable time. The policy 
states you must make a claim as soon as possible, and always within 28 days if the event 
giving rise to a claim. Any delay may mean that we will not pay the claim, or that we will 
reduce the claim or the amount of cover. Mr W has explained he hadnt wanted to put his 
daughter at risk during Covid and I think thats reasonable.
However, the claim was declined because, based on the evidence in its technicians report, 
Fortegra didnt accept any of the stains on the sofa amounted to a sudden and single 
incident of staining. Rather, it concluded the poor condition of the sofa was a result of wear 
and tear from general use over time, which is excluded under the policy.
The policy states the Plan does not provide coverfor your product becoming gradually 
dirty and out of condition over timedeterioration of the products appearance through 
normal use or general soilingan accumulation of multiple different stain types across 
multiple areas of the item. While I accept the milk stains were the result of the unintentional 
spillage of drink, when considered alongside the other stains on the sofa (of which there are 
several), it seems most likely it has gradually become dirty and soiled over time. The 
photographic evidence suggests an accumulation of different stain types across multiple 
areas and this is not consistent with a sudden and single incident of staining. Consequently, 
Im satisfied Fortegras decision to apply the exclusion is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman