DRN-2534538
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited has dealt with her claim.
  
What happened
Mrs A had booked a trip to travel abroad with her family on 9 August 2019. They were due to 
fly on 16 August 2019. 
Mrs A purchased a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Astrenska. She bought 
this online at 3am on 16 August 2019, the day she was due to fly. Later on the same day, 
she cancelled the trip as her daughter was unwell and had been advised not to travel. 
Mrs A made a claim for cancellation but Astrenska declined the claim on the basis that Mrs 
As daughter would have had symptoms of being unwell when she purchased the policy but 
this wasnt disclosed at the time.
Mrs A complained and said there was no medical evidence which shows that her daughter 
was unwell when she purchased the policy. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found it wasnt unreasonable for Astrenska to 
conclude a misrepresentation had been made at the point of purchase. But that this was a 
careless misrepresentation and so Astrenska should refund the premium paid. 
Astrenska agreed with this but Mrs A didnt and in summary, she has said:
Her daughter didnt have any symptoms at 3am when she bought the policy 
Although her daughter was complaining a little bit, she didnt think it was serious and 
so she didnt think she was required to let Astrenska know
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Astrenska has said it thinks Mrs A took the policy when her daughter already had symptoms 
and as such, she hadnt provided accurate information when buying the policy, as set out in 
the declarations. 
Ive looked at the online sales process and the medical declarations which say there will be 
no cover for any pre-existing medical conditions unless Astrenska has been notified and has 
agreed to provide cover. And in addition, all health changes after the purchase of the policy 
need to be notified to it too. 
Mrs A also needed to agree to a declaration that she had provided full details of any current 
or past medical conditions and would let Astrenska know of any changes to health. 
I dont think Mrs A took reasonable care when she agreed to these statements. 
Thats because she has confirmed that her daughter was complaining about feeling a little 
unwell before she bought the policy and this later turned into something more serious. And 
so at the time of buying the policy, Mrs A needed to declare this.
Even if Mrs A didnt think she had to let Astrenska know that her daughter had symptoms of 
an illness when she bought the policy, she didnt contact Astrenska when she did become 
unwell. But the policy requires Mrs A to let Astrenska know of any changes to health. And so 
any claim arising as a result of a medical condition not declared, wouldnt be covered. This 
means Im satisfied that Mrs As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Astrenska has agreed with our investigator that Mrs As misrepresentation was a careless 
one rather than deliberate or reckless. And so I will continue with my decision on the basis 
that Mrs A made a careless misrepresentation. 
Ive looked at the actions Astrenska can take in accordance with CIDRA. As Astrenska 
wouldnt have provided cover, it is entitled to avoid the policy for a careless 
misrepresentation. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Astrenska 
doesnt have to deal with the claim. But as the misrepresentation was careless, Astrenska 
should refund the premium Mrs A paid for the policy.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to refund Mrs As 
premium. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman