DRN-3035601
The complaint
Mr H and Mr B complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). They are not happy that it 
wouldnt consider a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.  
Although this complaint has been brought on behalf of both Mr B and Mr H the matter has 
been advanced throughout by Mr H, so for simplicity Ive just referred to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy after he wasnt able to claim 
under his landlord insurance following a leak at his property. But UKI said it wouldnt look at 
the claim until Mr H had exhausted all other avenues in relation to his claim against his 
landlord insurance, which included complaining to this service about his other insurer.
As Mr H didnt agree and didnt want to advance a complaint about his other insurer in the 
first instance he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought that 
UKI hadnt acted unreasonably in asking Mr H to advance a complaint to this service in the 
first instance and thought this was in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
But Mr H didnt agree. He thought that the policy was ambiguous, and it should have said he 
had to advance a claim to this service if thats what was supposed to happen. And as he 
didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mr Hs position I dont think it is unreasonable for UKI to ask him 
to exhaust other avenues available to him before looking at his case. I know he feels that the 
policy is ambiguous, but I dont agree. The policy clearly says that the insured must take 
reasonable steps to avoid and prevent claims and take reasonable steps to avoid incurring 
unnecessary costs. Mr H feels that this requirement solely comes into place in relation to 
him taking reasonable steps to avoid costs in response to defence claims made against him. 
But I dont think the policy reads that way. 
I say this as I think the term applies across the policy and isnt only open to the narrow 
interpretation that Mr H suggests. As such, I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably in 
asking Mr H to pursue other avenues open to him in order to avoid incurring unnecessary 
costs. And advancing a complaint to this service, which would have been free to Mr H, 
about all of this and his other insurance policy could have resolved the issue. 
So, I cant say that UKI has acted unfairly or outside the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
accept Mr Hs point that the policy doesnt expressly say that he needs to go through this 
services complaints procedure about his landlord insurer in order to advance a claim. But I 
think the policy makes it clear that he has to take reasonable steps to avoid costs before 
pursuing legal action on a claim. Indeed, Mr H has a duty to mitigate his losses and so I 
would expect him to explore this possibility before advancing a further claim. And as he 
could/should have advanced a complaint about his previous insurer to this service if he 
wasnt happy about it, which could have resolved the issue, I dont think UKI has acted 
unreasonably or the complaint should be upheld. 
Finally, I would expect UKI to revisit his claim under his landlord insurance policy if it 
transpired that this avenue wasnt open to him for any reason.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman