DRN-2750436
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (AXA) wouldnt pay her claim, in 
full, for furniture damaged during her home move. 
What happened
Mrs K bought a household removal policy to insure her furniture during her house move. She 
bought the policy from her removal company and AXA provided the cover. Mrs K made a 
claim under the policy after the removal company damaged a significant proportion of her 
furniture. 
AXA accepted the claim, but it only paid a percentage because it said Mrs K was 
underinsured. Mrs K complained because the removal company only offered her a policy for 
£50,000; AXA didnt send her any policy paperwork; it didnt make her aware that she 
couldve insured for more than that offered; it didnt tell her about the policy excess, and the 
removal company hadnt asked her any questions about the value of her furniture.
AXA said Mrs K signed the quote for the policy, so she wouldve been aware of the 
information. It maintained its offer to pay the percentage of her claim corresponding to the 
level of insurance shed bought, but it offered £100 by way of apology for a calculation error. 
Our investigator didnt think AXA had handled Mrs Ks claim fairly. He thought shed bought 
the policy in good faith and AXA hadnt asked relevant questions about the value of her 
possessions or provided her with any information about how a claim would be handled. Our 
investigator thought AXA should pay the outstanding amount to settle Mrs Ks claim in full 
and pay 8% simple interest on the outstanding payment.
AXA didnt agree. It provided evidence showing it sent the policy documents to Mrs K, 
including the requirement to make sure the cover was set at an appropriate level.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021 and heres what I said:
While I realise Mrs K will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Let me 
explain.
There are two key issues of complaint  whether AXA provided enough information for Mrs K 
to make an informed decision about the insurance policy, and whether it fairly reduced the 
settlement by the same percentage as the underinsured value.
Mrs K accepted the removal companys quotation for its services, which included additional 
insurance. But she says it didnt provide her with adequate documentation, so she didnt 
know she needed to insure the total value of her possessions. AXA provided evidence of an 
email it sent to Mrs Ks address with three attachments. One attachment was a copy of the 
Summary of Insurance Cover, which states:
Total Sum Insured
As declared to us on the acceptance form. Unless confirmed in writing by us prior to the 
move the sum insured shall not exceed:
Household Removals and Storage: £50,000 any one customer
The sum insured can be increased on payment of an additional premium up to a maximum 
of £250,000 any one customer or vehicle load.
Under-Insurance
It is a condition of the insurance that the sum insured represents the full total value of your 
effects. If you fail to declare the full replacement value of your effects, in the event of a claim 
you will only be entitled to recover from insurers the proportion of the loss as the declared 
value bears to the total replacement value of your property.
While Mrs K says AXA didnt give her this document, Im satisfied that it sent the summary of 
cover to the same email address as it sent all other documents, which Mrs K received. So, 
regardless of whether Mrs K saw the information, I dont agree that AXA failed to send it.
That said, Ive looked at the documents Mrs K says she did receive to see whether 
information similar to that in the summary of cover was still available to her. The Quotation 
Acceptance states:
Value of Goods 50k
By signing this document I accept and agree to [the] Terms and Conditions, details of which 
are on my quotation referred to above.
Mrs K signed the acceptance.
The Terms and Conditions provide the following information:
Insurance
3.1 It will be your responsibility to:
3.1.1 Arrange adequate insurance cover for the goods submitted for removal transit and/or 
storage, against all insurance risks as Our liability is limited under clauses 8.1 and 8.2 
Our liability for loss or damage 
8.1 We do not know the value of Your goods therefore We limit Our liability to a fixed limit 
per itemIf You wish Us to increase Our limit of liability per item You agree to pay a higher 
price for the work as stated in Condition 1.2.11 (Our Quotation). 
8.2 Unless otherwise agreed in writing if we are negligent or in breach of contract We will 
pay You up to £40 for each item which is lost or damaged as a direct result of any 
negligence or breach of contract on Our part. 
1.2.11 We agree in writing to increase Our limit of liability set out in Clause 8.1 prior to the 
work commencing
Looking at the information she confirms receipt of, Im satisfied that Mrs K was, at the very 
least, aware she insured her furniture for £50,000, and that she received a copy of the terms 
and conditions. AXA sent the summary of cover to the same address a few weeks earlier so, 
on balance, I think it provided adequate documentation for Mrs K to make an informed 
decision about her insurance cover. 
Mrs K says AXA knew her furniture was worth more, but it didnt tell her she couldve bought 
a policy covering more than £50,000. The specific details of cover available is in the 
summary of cover but the terms and conditions, which she received, are also clear about 
this:It will be your responsibility to:
3.1.1 Arrange adequate insurance coverWe do not know the value of Your goods
Theres no dispute that Mrs Ks furniture was worth more than the insured amount. Initially, 
AXA determined the value to be around £100,000, but Mrs K and the Loss Adjuster agreed a 
value of almost £68,000. And they both agreed the claim for damage amounted to £25,000. 
AXA offered Mrs K a settlement of around £18,000 but she thinks it should pay the full value 
because her claim is within the policy limit.
When Mrs K bought the cover, it shouldve been for the full value of the furniture in the 
removal van. Mrs K provided evidence of her contents insurance, which shows she had 
cover for a little over £100,000, so Im satisfied she wouldve been aware that her furniture 
was worth more than the policy limit. Mrs K insured her furniture for 74% of its value, so AXA 
offered to settle at the same percentage. Its offer is in line with the policy and, as Ive already 
said AXA provided the relevant documentation for Mrs K to make an informed decision, I 
think its offer was fair.
AXA offered to increase the settlement by £100 as an apology for incorrectly assessing the 
underinsurance at 50%. It corrected its mistake after accepting Mrs Ks valuation of her 
furniture. I think the inconvenience caused wouldve been minimal in the circumstances, so 
Im satisfied that the offer was fair.
Overall, the evidence shows me that AXA provided appropriate and relevant information to 
Mrs K to make her aware of the policy cover and where her responsibilities lay. She bought 
a policy which didnt adequately cover her furniture and AXA offered to settle her claim by 
the same percentage of underinsurance. I think its offer was fair and in line with the policy, 
so I see no reason to ask AXA to settle the claim in full.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AXA had nothing further to add but Mrs K disagreed. She remained unhappy because she 
thought AXA was responsible for the sale of the policy, and it hadnt made her aware of the 
pitfalls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence, with Mrs Ks recent comments in mind, but I havent seen 
anything which persuades me that a change in outcome is warranted. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, the policy documents were made available to Mrs K and within those 
documents was confirmation that AXA didnt know the value of Mrs Ks furniture and she 
needed to make sure the cover was adequate. 
I appreciate that Mrs K felt reassured that the cover was adequate because the removal 
company offered her a policy insuring £50,000. But she was aware that her home contents 
policy covered more than £50,000 so it wouldve been reasonable for her to check the policy 
limitations on receipt of the documents, or at the point of sale. I havent seen anything to 
demonstrate that Mrs K was told the cover was enough or that the company acting on AXAs 
behalf offered any advice. I think it was clear that Mrs K had the overriding responsibility to ensure that the insurance 
cover she bought adequately covered her. Therefore, Im satisfied that AXA settled the claim 
in line with the under-insurance terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman