DRN-2978237
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2015, Mrs A applied for a Barclaycard on a balance transfer offer. It was 
agreed with a limit of £3800. In June 2016, Barclaycard offered, and Mrs A accepted, an 
increase in the limit to £4800. In September 2019, the debt was sold to a debt collection 
agency (DCA). In November 2020, Barclaycard wrote to Mrs A to say that theyd reviewed 
the way they set some customers limits and the limit may have been too high. They 
refunded interest of £486.55 by a credit to her debt with the DCA.
Mrs A complained. She said she shouldnt have been given the card or increase in limit. She 
was in persistent debt with her other bank, and she had debts of £7250. Her income was 
£1100 a month, and outgoings were £900. Her payments to other creditors were £200. She 
couldnt afford the Barclaycard and they couldnt have made sufficient checks.
Barclaycard said Mrs A had passed their credit checks for the issue of the card and the limit 
increase. Her credit file had been checked and the information she gave to them suggested 
she had a monthly disposable income of £182, so she could afford the card. She also met 
their criteria for the limit increase.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Barclaycard had acted fairly. 
The checks they made were proportionate to the limits put in place. Mrs As credit file 
showed no missed payments, and she had maintained her other accounts for some years 
before. Barclaycards income and expenditure assessment looked reasonable  and showed 
she could afford the card. Also  because she was taking a zero per cent balance transfer 
offer, she wouldve saved on interest cost by transferring other borrowing to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard had already refunded interest and so they didnt need to do anymore.
Mrs A disagreed. She said that the transfer of her debt to the DCA had been shown to be 
flawed. And therefore, Barclaycards refund of interest should be paid to her, not as a 
reduction in her debt with the DCA  as it had been. She asked that her complaint be looked 
at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be.
Ive looked what happened here. When Mrs A applied for the card, she said she was earning 
just over £15000 a year and was in rented property. Barclaycard worked out from what she 
told them that after all outgoings, (including other existing card payments), she had monthly 
disposable income of £182 a month  so with the minimum payments of around £60 a 
month, she could afford the card.
Barclaycard looked at Mrs As other borrowing. She had two bank accounts with debts of 
£3853, and a credit card with a balance of £2929. These had been running for several years 
- the credit card since 2009, and the bank accounts since 2004 and 2011. And, payments 
were up to date  so she had a decent track record. Mrs A has said her payments to other 
lenders were £200 a month  but in her application to Barclaycard, the credit card payment 
is shown as £42  which looked about right for the borrowing on that card. So  I consider 
that Barclaycard were OK to issue her the card with a limit of £3800.
When Mrs A started the card with Barclaycard, she drew down the limit of £3800 by balance 
transfer on an interest-free offer  so I assume she repaid some of her other debts, and 
saved money. In the first three months, she paid well over the minimum amount needed  
she paid £140 in December 2015, £180 in January 2016, and £481 in February 2016. After 
that, in the next three months, she paid the minimum amount of £60, or just over it. So  
things wouldve looked OK to Barclaycard. And this, given also what they knew about Mrs A 
from her application, suggests Barclaycard were justified in increasing her limit to £4800.
Mrs A had said to us that she was in persistent debt with her other bank. By this, I think she 
means she was permanently in debt and wasnt making any inroads into her borrowing. That 
may have been the case, but we can only expect Barclaycard to look at the information on 
her credit file  which showed that she was making all her payments to the other bank, and 
on time, and she had done consistently for at least 14 months before.
Against this, theres an argument for saying that it was only five or six months since Mrs A 
took out the card  and Barclaycard shouldve waited longer before increasing her limit to 
£4800. Also, when Mrs A took the limit of £4800  this meant she had debts of around 
£11500  which was high in comparison with her salary of £15000. Ive considered these 
aspects, but feel that on balance, Barclaycard did undertake the proportionate checks 
needed. 
Barclaycard have already suggested to Mrs A that they may have been wrong in increasing 
her limit to £4800 and refunded some interest. This was part of an exercise that they 
undertook for a lot of their customers during the period  but it doesnt mean that their lending decisions were irresponsible in every case  each one needs to be looked at on its 
merits, which is what Ive done here.
As a response to our investigators view, Mrs A said that the transfer of her debt to the DCA 
had been shown to be faulty, and so the interest refund of £486.55 should be paid to her, not 
in reduction of her debt with the DCA. Ive looked at the evidence she sent us. Its a consent 
order dated August 2021 discontinuing the DCAs application for a County Court Judgement. 
This is dated well after Barclaycards refund of interest in November 2020  and so 
therefore, Barclaycard couldnt take account of it when they refunded the interest. Also, it 
wasnt part of Mrs As complaint to Barclaycard or to us. So  I will not look at this aspect. 
But  its for Mrs A to raise this complaint with Barclaycard if she wishes.
And so, while I know this will be disappointing to Mrs A, I think that on balance, Barclaycard 
did carry out the necessary and proportionate checks, and I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman