DRN-3347736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that MyClaimSolved Ltd (MCS) pursued a claim against their 
bank for mis-selling a packaged bank account  even though theyd told MCS they wanted to 
deal with that themselves. 
What happened
In early 2018, Mr and Mrs H instructed MCS to act for them in claims around various 
financial products.  They told MCS they had a packaged bank account.  But they wanted to 
pursue any claim relating to that themselves and asked MCS not to take any action on it.
However, a couple of months later, Mr and Mrs H received a letter from their bank, declining 
a claim for mis-selling their packaged bank account on the basis that it was brought too late 
for the bank to have to consider it.  
Mr and Mrs H raised their own complaint with the bank a few months later.  They told us the 
bank rejected it because MCS had previously made a claim.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy their instructions had been ignored and complained to MCS.  
MCS investigated.  They didnt uphold the complaint as they said the bank made it clear 
theyd declined the claim because it has been brought outside the relevant time limits.  But 
they acknowledged theyd taken too long to investigate the complaint and offered Mr and 
Mrs H £50 compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with MCSs response and brought their complaint to us.  Our 
investigator asked MCS to provide their business file.  MCS didnt respond, so the 
investigator came to a view based on the information Mr and Mrs H sent us.
He concluded MCS hadnt made it clear theyd submitted a claim in relation to the packaged 
bank account  and early correspondence had confirmed they wouldnt do that.  So he 
understood why Mr and Mrs H were confused and frustrated when the bank wrote to them 
rejecting the claim.
While the investigator noted Mr and Mrs H felt theyd lost the opportunity to pursue their 
claim, he didnt think that was the case, as the bank had said MCSs claim was too late.  So 
any later claim from Mr and Mrs H would also have been out of time.
Although the investigator noted Mr and Mrs H would have been in the same position, he did 
think MCS should pay them £100 compensation for not clearly telling them what claims they 
were pursuing.
Both Mr and Mrs H and MCS agreed with the investigators view.  So he asked MCS to pay 
Mr and Mrs H and closed the complaint.
At the start of 2022, Mr and Mrs H contacted us to say theyd never received payment from 
MCS.  The investigator contacted MCS, who told him theyd issued a cheque.  But theyd re-
issue it if Mr and Mrs H hadnt received it.  
Despite Mr and Mrs H confirming theyd never received the compensation, MCS havent 
provided evidence to the investigator or to me that they sent a cheque.  So Ive been asked 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Our investigator explained hed relied on the information provided by Mr and Mrs H to reach 
his view because MCS didnt provide their business file.  Thats not changed.  And, having 
considered that information, I agree with his conclusions (which I summarised above).
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that MCSs actions made no difference to Mr and Mrs Hs own 
claim to the bank, because the banks letter makes it clear the claim was made out of time. 
But  like him  I think MCS should have clarified which claims they were pursuing.  I agree 
that £100 is a fair amount of compensation for not doing that.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about 
MyClaimSolved Ltd and directing MCS to pay them £100 compensation for not clarifying 
which claims theyd submitted to the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman