DRN-4040405
Complaint
Mr B and Ms I complain that Santander UK Plc have held them liable for transactions they 
say they didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
Background
In May 2022, Mr B was on holiday in Spain with close friends and family members. The trip 
was to celebrate his forthcoming marriage. On 9 May, his phone and wallet were stolen. He 
tells us that someone then used Apple Pay on his phone to make six transactions at around 
4:30am. The following day, his phone and hotel room key were handed into his hotel without 
the wallet. He checked his phone and noticed the unauthorised transactions that had been 
made from his account and so he promptly notified Santander. 
He had been out that evening socialising. At 1:15am, he used a cash machine to withdraw 
€200 from an account he holds with a different bank. At 02:04am, the same card hed used 
for that ATM withdrawal was used to attempt two payments to a merchant in the town Mr B 
was staying in. The first of these was contactless, the second was authenticated by use of 
the correct PIN. Both attempted payments were declined by the other bank. At 02:07am, a 
payment was made to the same merchant from his Santander account. It was authenticated 
via Apple Pay using Mr Bs missing mobile phone. Five payments were made. The total 
value of those payments (including fees charged for non-sterling transactions) was a little 
over £2,800.
Mr B says that he didnt make or otherwise authorise the payments. He complained to 
Santander, but it didnt agree to refund them. It said that a point of compromise couldnt be 
evidenced regarding the device used to make the transactions. Mr B was unhappy with the 
response he received from Santander and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. 
The Investigator concluded that the transactions were most likely made by Mr B or that he 
consented to someone else making them. He observed that the merchant that the payments 
were made to was consistent with a group on a stag do making payments to a late-night 
venue. He found it unlikely a third party fraudster wouldve made the payments because 
theyd have needed to obtain Mr Bs phone and wallet, observe him using his phone 
passcode and the PIN to his other bank card. He also thought that it would be unlikely an 
opportunistic fraudster would discard his phone and bank card when they may still have 
value.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Santander is liable for unauthorised 
transactions made from Mr B and Ms Hs account.  Mr B has said that he didnt authorise the 
transactions in dispute. I should be clear from the outset that I cant know with any certainty 
how these transactions were carried out. Where there is such uncertainty, I must decide the 
case on the balance of probabilities  in other words, is it more likely than not that Mr B 
authorised the transactions in question?
Ive considered that point carefully and Im not persuaded that the evidence allows me to find 
in Mr Bs favour. If these payments were carried out by an opportunistic third party, the 
evidence suggests that both Mr Bs phone and card fell into their hands at the same time. 
They had also managed to acquire both the PIN for the card and the passcode for the 
phone. As I understand it, the code for the device is not similar to the PIN for the card  so 
knowing one wouldnt allow someone to guess the other.
It isnt far-fetched to suggest that someone couldve observed Mr B unlocking his phone at 
any point during the evening. Although his phone was configured to use Face ID, it also had 
a passcode as a back-up option. Theres also a potential point of compromise for the PIN on 
his card with the other bank. Mr B did legitimately use the card to make a cash machine 
withdrawal at 1:15am. A fraudster couldve observed him doing so.
Either of these things independently would be plausible, but I find it far-fetched to suggest 
that the same person or people couldve done both, particularly given the security 
credentials for each were different. I agree with the Investigators conclusion that it would be 
unlikely a fraudster would wait patiently for the opportunity to acquire both the device and the 
card at the same time.
I also find it surprising that, if Mr Bs card and phone had fallen into the hands of a fraudster 
at around the time he made the cash machine withdrawal, the first use was nearly an hour 
later and to attempt a relatively low value contactless payment. Its also noteworthy that the 
only use of the card was two attempted low value payments to the same merchant. If the 
card had fallen into the hands of an opportunistic fraudster with full knowledge of the PIN, Id 
expect to see evidence of further attempts at using that card to maximise the value of the 
theft.
There is unfortunately no definitive proof available to explain how these transactions were 
made. However, the available evidence doesnt support the argument that these payments 
were made by a third party without Mr Bs consent. I therefore think its reasonable for 
Santander to conclude that Mr B, or someone with his consent, made the disputed 
payments. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman