DRN-3213207
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received when making a chargeback on his credit card 
with HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct.
What happened
Mr P purchased a bed with retailer for £589. When the bed didnt arrive, he raised a dispute 
with first direct.
first direct credited Mr P the £598 hed spent on the bed and said it would raise a dispute 
with the retailer.
That dispute failed because the bed was ultimately delivered, albeit it late. So, first direct re-
debited Mr Ps account with the £589 it had credited him.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and complained. He said hed actually only paid £500 for the 
bed after the retailer had given him a discount following the delay. He said first direct never 
forewarned him it would re-debit his account. He said after it was re-debited he was still 
being chased for payment from the retailer and he said he spent a long time on calls with 
first direct trying to rectify this. first direct offered Mr P £25. But he remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She thought first direct had done everything it needed to in this case.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original amount Mr P paid for the bed was £589. This is the amount credited to 
Mr P when he raised the chargeback.
When the chargeback was raised, Mr P was told that it wasnt guaranteed to be 
successful, and that if it failed first direct would re-debit the money it had credited 
him.
The chargeback was raised on the basis that the bed hadnt been delivered. So, 
when the bed was delivered, I think Mr P should reasonably have known the 
chargeback wasnt successful. Its not fair that he gets the goods without paying for 
them.
It would have been better for first direct to tell him directly before re-debiting the 
account. But its not something it has to do. It had told Mr P this would happen if the 
chargeback failed during the call when it was raised, and I think Mr P had enough 
information (and indeed delivery of the goods) to know the dispute had failed. So, the 
re-debiting of the funds was always likely to follow the delivery of the bed.
I appreciate that following the delay, the bed was discounted by £89 by the retailer. 
So, in reality Mr P only paid £500 for it. But in dealing with the chargeback, first direct 
are looking at the original transaction of £589. It was £589 that was originally debited, 
£589 that was credited when the dispute raised, and £589 that was re-debited when 
the dispute failed. The £89 reduction is a matter between Mr P and the retailer.
I understand the retailer was chasing Mr P for money after the dispute had failed and 
his account had been re-debited. I appreciate how frustrating this would have been 
but dont think this was caused by first direct. And I can see first direct helped Mr P 
resolve this issue in a reasonable time frame by giving him a letter to show the 
retailer.
I understand Mr P isnt happy with the time spent trying to resolve this. I understand 
waiting on hold for long periods of time isnt an enjoyable experience and can be 
extremely frustrating especially when the reason for the call is to try resolve an issue. 
But unfortunately, waiting on hold is a common occurrence and part of everyday life, 
and considering the time Mr P was on hold here I dont think that in itself warrants 
compensation. However, I can see that for the service as a whole, first direct has 
offered Mr P £25. Im satisfied this is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman