DRN-4148342
The complaint
Mr B brings this complaint in his capacity as executor of the estate of his late father, who 
passed away in 2012. Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires (and referred to here as BM) will not extend the term of the mortgage his late 
father held with BM for another two years.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr B being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr Bs late father had an interest-only mortgage with BM on a property in which Mr B and his 
father both lived. After Mr Bs father died in 2012, Mr B remained in the property and paid the 
mortgage on behalf of his late fathers estate. The mortgage term expired in 2016. Informal 
term extensions have been granted to enable Mr B to come up with a repayment strategy, 
but BM now wants the estate to repay the outstanding balance.
Mr B doesnt think this is fair and wants the term extended for a further two years. However, 
BM hasnt been able to agree to this. As a result, Mr B complained to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The investigator explained that, in his capacity as executor, Mr Bs role is to administer the 
estate, which includes repayment of the mortgage. He noted Mr B had applied for the 
mortgage to be transferred into his sole name, but explained why that isnt part of the 
administration of the estate. The investigator also clarified that wed previously explained to 
Mr B in another ombudsmans decision why the mortgage couldnt be transferred into Mr Bs 
sole name.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, Mr B says that if hed 
known at the start that the mortgage couldnt be transferred into his name, he wouldnt have 
paid £29,000 towards it, but would have put it into an ISA for a deposit. Mr B said that if the 
Land Registry would put the property into his name as well as his late fathers, he could then 
seek alternative lending. We both know they can add me to the land registry only and still 
keep my fathers charge on the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that the eligible complainant in this case is not Mr B; it is the estate 
of Mr Bs late father, and Mr B is representing the estate as executor. Mr B is not BMs 
customer in relation to this complaint. He is the representative of BMs customer. BMs 
customer was Mr Bs father, and is now Mr Bs fathers estate.
As executor, Mr Bs role is to administer the estate and pay off the estate debts, within a 
reasonable time. Mr Bs father died more than 11 years ago, and the debt owed to BM 
remains outstanding. BM has tried to work with Mr B over the years and has granted 
informal extensions to the expired mortgage term.
 
On 26 February 2021 an ombudsman explained why the mortgage couldnt be transferred 
into Mr Bs name. She also explained that BM no longer lends on residential property and so 
couldnt consider an application from Mr B for a new mortgage.
Since then it doesnt appear that anything has changed. The mortgage balance is still due 
and outstanding to BM. More than two years have passed since the previous ombudsmans 
decision and Im satisfied that BM is now entitled to require repayment of the mortgage.
I appreciate Mr B thinks this isnt fair. However, as executor of the estate, he is under a duty 
to pay the debts of the estate. If he doesnt do so, then the creditors of the estate (in this 
case, BM) will ultimately have no option but to seek repayment through the courts.
In all the circumstances, I dont think BM has done anything wrong. Mr B has had a further 
two years since the previous ombudsmans decision to make arrangements to repay the 
mortgage on behalf of the estate. I think BM has shown considerable forbearance, but I cant 
see any basis on which it would be fair and reasonable to order BM to give the estate 
another two years to pay the mortgage off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman