DRN-3859587
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has dealt with 
claims he made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.
For ease, I will concentrate on providing my reasons for my decision. I will refer to any 
information I believe is relevant to my decision below. I will not be listing each individual 
action that has happened and where I think it is appropriate, I will summarise information 
that has been provided.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 9 December 2022. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
Mr Ws complaint concerns three separate claims. I will therefore refer to each claim under 
a separate subheading.
Claim one  tenant (rent) default and property damage.
This claim was originally set up by telephone in March 2022.There were delays in 
undertaking the initial insurance checks to confirm Mr W had cover, acting on the advice 
received from solicitors and reviewing the claim further in reference to the policy coverage.
In response to a complaint Mr W made, DAS offered £150 to reflect what had happened to 
that point.
In November 2021, Mr W emailed to make a complaint about the panel solicitors and 
request a copy of all of the information DAS held about him. DAS issued a final response in 
January 2022, explaining DAS couldnt comment on the conduct of the solicitors concerned. 
However, it offered £25 compensation to reflect the fact it had delayed in providing its 
complaint response to Mr W. 
I can see Mr W then contacted DAS to discuss the progress of this claim and was sent a rent 
schedule to complete. However, this was information Mr W had already provided at the start 
of the claim in March 2021.
The claim was then reviewed again, and Mr W was informed the rent he wanted to claim for 
wasnt actually covered by the policy. Having looked at the policy terms, Im satisfied this 
was the correct position.
A further £50 compensation was offered by DAS at this point as it said there had been an 
eight-working day delay in providing this information to him.
Having reviewed matters again, DAS has now acknowledged it didnt deal with this claim 
well. It recognises its responses to Mr W didnt appreciate the overall delays, lack of 
communication and repeated requests for information it already held.
It confirms the eventual decision to decline the tenant (rent) default claim was correct, by 
notes that this decision should have been made a lot earlier in the claim and that this would 
have unnecessarily caused confusion and upset to Mr W. It recognises because of the 
above, it also delayed in moving the property damage claim forwards.
Overall DAS has said it would like to make a further offer of £300 compensation to Mr W. 
Having reviewed what has happened in this claim, I think that is reasonable. It would bring 
the total compensation amount awarded to £525.
Claim two - Damage claim
DAS has admitted it delayed in registering this claim  it incorrectly added details of this 
claim, to claim file one, and didnt realise its mistake until nearly three months later. It has 
offered £100 compensation for this which I think is reasonable. Mr W has said he provided 
information about this claim to DAS earlier than it has said, so he believes the compensation 
amount should be higher.
There are no set amounts as to how much compensation should be awarded in any given 
circumstance. When considering matters such as this I will consider what has happened and 
the impact that has been caused. Here DAS has admitted it could have set the claim up 
earlier and has offered compensation. Whether or not that date was wrong, doesnt 
automatically mean more compensation is due. Here it has admitted its error and made an 
offer to put it right  I think that is reasonable. Mr W has suggested the delay has impacted 
the underlying legal claim; however, I cant see that is the case. I agree the progress of the 
claim was delayed but I think the compensation offered acknowledges this.
DAS did set the claim up and asked for specific information from Mr W in order to progress 
the matter. Im satisfied it progressed the claim when it was in receipt of all of the necessary 
information.
Claim three  damage claim.
DAS admitted it delayed in registering this claim, and an offer of compensation was included 
in that which I referenced under claim two. For the same reasons as I have set out above, I 
think this amount is reasonable. I wouldnt look to double it or suggest more should be 
awarded simply because there are two claims. Everything has been dealt with together.
It appears it took a little while for all necessary information to be obtained on this claim and 
details about the deposit cover was resolved. This isnt unusual, and although I realise this 
may naturally cause some frustration, I dont think DAS acted unreasonably here. It passed 
the claim over to the solicitor when it was satisfied it had all of the relevant information.
DAS has said as far as it is aware, all relevant information was sent to the panel solicitors to 
review. If the panel solicitors felt the need to request information or ask for clarity on 
information provided, these are actions outside of DAS control. I cant see anything to 
suggest this was incorrect.
Other matters
Duplication of informationI understand Mr W was caused some frustration as he was asked to send information 
through which believed he had sent before. There were some instances which I have 
referred to above where this information was incorrectly asked for. However, it must be 
borne in mind that each claim is separate and therefore there will naturally be a level of 
duplication that happens.
I can also see that on occasion Mr W sent information through on emails where the previous 
content related to different claim number. I think DAS did its best here to arrange for the 
information to be moved to the correct file each time. However, I have acknowledged above 
where this caused a delay.
Conduct of solicitors and their assessment of the claims
Im aware Mr W complained about how the panel solicitors were dealing with his claims and 
the information it has provided to him. DAS referred those points to the panel solicitor and 
explained to Mr W it was not able to review the conduct of solicitors.
The solicitor firm has dealt with Mr Ws complaint directly and offered him compensation. 
Solicitors are professionals in their own right, are regulated separately and have their own 
complaints process to be followed.
DAS did what I would have expected it to do here by ensuring Mr Ws complaint was passed 
on to the panel solicitor for it to address. Simply because the solicitor firm has potentially 
admitted to some failings it doesnt automatically mean their legal assessment of a claim is 
flawed or that DAS should assign the claims to another solicitor firm. DAS is entitled to rely 
on the advice of the solicitors, and it has correctly set out that should Mr W disagree with 
this, then he is entitled to seek an opinion from a different solicitor. Should that solicitor be of 
the opinion the legal claims have prospects of success Mr W would need to present that 
assessment to DAS for it to then review further.
Summary
Overall, I think DAS could have handled Mr Ws claims better. However, Im satisfied it has 
now recognised this.
Im satisfied the offers of compensation DAS made in its various final responses and the 
additional £300 it has now offered, fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr W was caused by 
its poor service.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Mr W said he didnt feel the following points had been covered.
Responses were not made in line with his request for reasonable adjustments, or 
was his file provided to the solicitor as requested, therefore causing him additional 
burden in having to duplicate information.
Rent arrears were not acted upon, or information provided to the solicitor to progress 
legal action. Despite asking several times he was not informed about the rent arrears 
until several months later.
DAS admitted to its faults by admitting they had not received documents for one of the tenants, but they did not offer a higher level of compensation after its decision, 
which he feels is unfair.
Although delays are mentioned and, on an individual, basis, there is no mention of 
the amalgamation of events for the three tenants he had, or that it was a high level of 
incompetence and mismanagement across several platforms.
Why did DAS fail to pay the rent arrears or respond to his requests for the payment 
which should have been the following month and not a year later and without any 
indication or response why?
DAS failed to provide or work alongside of the solicitors and inform them, that each 
claim was in actual fact above £1000 and on that basis instruct the solicitors to act. 
DAS could have intervened and instructed the solicitors to act, as the claim was 
above the threshold.
DAS also discriminated with some of the responses, not being in a format requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill respond to each of Mr Ws points below.
Responses were not made in line with his request for reasonable adjustments, or 
was his file provided to the solicitor as requested, therefore causing him addition 
burden in having to duplicate information.
It wont always be possible for a business to communicate in a way a consumer requests, 
and in any event, I cant see here that DAS has specifically responded to a complaint about 
a failure to make reasonable adjustments so I will not make a finding on that here. 
I responded to the point regarding the information the solicitor received when I said the 
following in my provisional decision:
Duplication of information
I understand Mr W was caused some frustration as he was asked to send information 
through which believed he had sent before. There were some instances which I have 
referred to above where this information was incorrectly asked for. However, it must be 
borne in mind that each claim is separate and therefore there will naturally be a level of 
duplication that happens.
I can also see that on occasion Mr W sent information through on emails where the previous 
content related to different claim number. I think DAS did its best here to arrange for the 
information to be moved to the correct file each time. However, I have acknowledged above 
where this caused a delay.
Rent arrears were not acted upon, or information provided to the solicitor to progress 
legal action. Despite asking several times he was not informed about the rent arrears 
until several months later.
This matter is addressed under the heading claim one in my provisional decision. DAS admitted to its faults by admitting they had not received documents for one of 
the tenants, but they did not offer a higher level of compensation after its decision, 
which he feels is unfair.
I have addressed this matter under claim one in my provisional decision. DAS has now 
offered an increased amount of compensation which I think is reasonable. 
Although delays are mentioned and, on an individual, basis, there is no mention of 
the amalgamation of events for the three tenants I had, that it was a high level of 
incompetence and mismanagement across several platforms.
I have addressed this point in my summary where I said the following:
Overall, I think DAS could have handled Mr Ws claims better. However, Im satisfied it has 
now recognised this.
Im satisfied the offers of compensation DAS made in its various final responses and the 
additional £300 it has now offered, fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr W was caused by 
its poor service.
Why did DAS fail to pay the rent arrears or respond to his requests for the payment 
which should have been the following month and not a year later and without any 
indication or response why?
This is addressed under claim one. DAS has admitted it should have realised much earlier 
in the claims process that the claim would not be met. I confirmed in my provisional decision 
that its eventual decision not to pay the claim was fair and in line with the policy terms.
DAS failed to provide or work alongside of the solicitors and inform them, that each 
claim was in actual fact above £1000 and on that basis instruct the solicitors to act. 
DAS could have intervened and instructed the solicitors to act, as the claim was 
above the threshold 
DAS are not legal experts; they are entitled to rely on the action and opinions of the panel 
solicitors. It would not be for DAS to interfere in the legal claim or challenge the opinion of 
the solicitors. The solicitors have provided their opinion on what can and cant be claimed 
for. I explained in my provisional decision what Mr W would need to do if he disagrees with 
the opinion of the solicitors:
 DAS is entitled to rely on the advice of the solicitors, and it has correctly set out that 
should Mr W disagree with this, then he is entitled to seek an opinion from a different 
solicitor. Should that solicitor be of the opinion the legal claims have prospects of success 
Mr W would need to present that assessment to DAS for it to then review further.
DAS also discriminated with some of the responses, not being in a format requested.
As Ive mentioned above, I cant see that DAS has specifically considered a complaint about 
failing to make reasonable adjustments, so I wont make a finding on that here. In addition, I 
would add that this service would not make a finding on discrimination as that is a legal test. 
Should Mr W seek a determination on that fact, he would need to go to court. 
Under this complaint Ive considered generally the level of service DAS has provided to 
Mr W and Ive found that on occasion it has been poor and more could have been done to 
make the process less confusing for Mr W. Having considered everything, Im not minded to change the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
So for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
DAS should now make an additional payment of £300 compensation to him to reflect the 
trouble and upset its actions caused.
Putting things right
DAS should make an additional payment of £300 compensation to Mr W. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited. It 
should put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman