DRN-2911309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out for a mortgage in 1985. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. As best as we can tell, it covered both 
Mr and Mrs B, in case either one or both of them were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
I think Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy was most likely mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, she was not eligible for this policy 
because she wasnt in work. This means the policy wasnt of any use to her.
Santander says theres no evidence that Mrs B wasnt working at the time, but I disagree. 
First of all, Mr and Mrs Bs testimony has been consistent and plausible, and Ive got no 
good reason to disbelieve them. Secondly, Ive looked at their further lending application 
from 1991, which said that Mrs B had only been employed since 1987. That also seems to 
support her assertion that she wasnt working in 1985. And thirdly, Santander has not 
provided any evidence to show that she was working at the time. I think its most likely that 
what Mr and Mrs B have told us is correct, and so that Mrs B was not eligible for the cover.
Santander also argued that they would have given Mr and Mrs B a policy document, and so 
if Mr and Mrs B then realised the PPI wasnt suitable for them they couldve cancelled it. But 
the onus was on Santander to sell the policy correctly  it was not on Mr and Mrs B to notice 
any flaws in the sale after the fact and cancel it.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if theyd realised Mrs B wasnt eligible 
for it. So I think Mr and Mrs B have most likely lost out because of Santander getting things 
wrong.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc needs to put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% simple a year until April 1993 and 8% simple a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I direct Santander UK Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman