DRN-3672382
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) didnt investigate his Section 
75 claim on the grounds of misrepresentation properly. He would like compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration. He has told us that after work was carried out on his 
home he had electrical and plumbing problems. As he paid for the service using his 
NatWest credit card he put a Section 75 claim. For a Section 75 claim to be 
successful there needs to have been either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. NatWest said as Mr S hadnt evidenced either it couldnt raise a 
claim for him. The quote Mr S provided for the work states that mechanical and 
electrical isolations and making good any damage causing during setting up or 
removal isnt included in the quote. Based on this information I think it was 
reasonable for NatWest to conclude that it had no grounds for a Section 75 claim.
Mr S has referred us to an email chain with the contractor which he says shows the 
contractor said, no plumbing damages would occur. He feels as plumbing damage 
did occur that NatWest should take this as grounds for misrepresentation. 
Unfortunately, having reviewed this correspondence I dont agree. In the email Mr S 
notes the quote for work states that making good any damage is excluded but says 
he was advised that the sink, basin, and floor would be covered to avoid scratches. 
To which the contractor replies that the room would be covered in polythene. The 
contractor doesnt state that no damage to plumbing would occur. So, I dont agree 
that this response by the contractor is misrepresentation.
 Whilst I am sympathetic to the problems Mr S has had I cant reasonably ask 
NatWest to compensate him. I think NatWest properly considered if a Section 75 
claim was valid but correctly decided it wasnt as Mr S was unable to evidence either 
abreach of contract or misrepresentation either of which he needed to do for a claim 
to succeed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman