DRN-2627272
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd turned down his motor 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr C holds a motor insurance policy with Accredited. He claimed on his policy after he said a 
fire was started in his car by vandals. Accredited arranged for an investigator, from a 
company Ill refer to as B, to interview Mr C. It also sent his keys to a forensic investigator.
Mr C complained to our service as he was unhappy with the length of time it was taking for 
Accredited to deal with his claim. He said it lost his car key for a number of months and he 
hadnt had the opportunity to collect any of the expensive items that had been left in his car. 
He said hed put a lot of effort into providing information to Accredited but thought it was 
trying to avoid paying his claim.
Following its investigation, Accredited turned down Mr Cs claim and cancelled his policy. It 
said it was entitled to do this under the terms of the policy because it thought he had made 
false statements about being up-to-date with his finance payments and also about the 
condition of the car before it was vandalised. 
Accredited said Mr C had told B that his finance payments were up-to-date. And hed also 
said the finance company had allowed him to stop making payments which wasnt true. 
Accredited also said the key report showed a number of warning lights were showing which 
indicated faults with the car. It said the cars MOT was due two days after the fire, yet Mr C 
hadnt made any arrangements to book the MOT. 
Accredited said Mr Cs car was a category B total loss (known as a write-off) and as the car 
therefore had no value, it would dispose of it, or either Mr C or the finance company could 
collect it. 
 
Mr C said he wasnt a mechanic so wouldnt have known about the faults with his car, as far 
as he was concerned it was in perfect condition apart from some scratches and a slow 
puncture. He said hed previously had some engine problems, but these had been fixed in 
2019. He said he was waiting until hed been paid to book the MOT. He said he didnt know 
he wasnt up-to-date with his payments as he didnt have access to his account. He also said 
he didnt say he was up-to-date with his finance payments and Bs investigator must have 
altered the report. Mr C didnt think any of these issues had anything to do with his car being 
vandalised.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought it was fair and reasonable for Accredited to turn down Mr Cs claim because of the 
inconsistencies in the information hed given. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the car was kept in immaculate condition and he hadnt given 
false information. He said the information from his garage clearly showed the brakes had 
been changed. Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy say that if he makes any statement or claim that is 
false, exaggerated or fraudulent then Accredited can decline his claim and cancel his policy. 
The key report shows that when the main key was last used there were four warning lights 
on the car. And that there was one warning light on the car when the second key was last 
used, which was 6,000 miles before the main key was last used. Accredited says Mr C gave 
false information because it clearly asked him if there were any other warning lights on the 
car, other than the tyre pressure - which hed told it about - and he said there wasnt. 
I think Mr C should reasonably have been aware of these, even if he didnt know what they 
meant. Mr C suggested the faults could have occurred during the fire and that the key picked 
them up when he opened the door after the fire. But I find this unlikely as the faults were
showing up on the data from when the key was last used, and I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that the data was read from opening the door. Also, Accredited has said that 
the sensors arent in the same area as the part of the car that was damaged by the fire, so 
the fire wouldnt have caused the warning lights to show. 
Mr C has suggested that keys dont contain this sort of data. However, Ive seen the key 
report which shows the data produced from them by the forensic investigator. Ive also seen 
similar data produced from keys in other complaints Ive seen. So, Im satisfied that the keys 
do provide this sort of data and its fair and reasonable for Accredited to rely on the key 
report. 
Mr C said his brake pads were replaced in 2019 at the same time he had other work carried 
out on the car, so any warnings for this wouldnt be accurate. Ive seen information from his 
garage which says that rear brake pads were replaced in 2019. However, this was before 
the mileage reading given on the key report, and it isnt enough to persuade me there 
werent any other warning lights showing before the fire. Also, Mr Cs MOT dated after the 
brakes were apparently changed shows an advisory for rear brake pads wearing thin. So, 
even if the brakes were changed there still seems to have been an issue with them.
Taking all this into consideration, I think its fair and reasonable for Accredited to say Mr C 
provided false information about the condition of his car before the fire, as it seems there 
were a number of warning lights showing. 
I also think it was fair and reasonable for Accredited to say Mr C provided inaccurate 
information about his finance payments being up-to-date and why payments hadnt been 
made. 
Ive seen an email from Mr C to Accredited which says the finance company told him it would 
put his account on hold, but then wrote to him a couple of weeks later to say he should 
continue to make payments if he can. Ive listened to a call between Accrediteds agent and 
the finance company where the finance company said it would definitely not tell Mr C that he 
could stop paying while the claim was settled. 
I understand Mr C feels the statement he gave to B could have been amended, as he didnt 
think hed said the payments were up-to-date. However, Mr C signed the written statement, 
so I think it most likely gives an accurate reflection of the information given to B.Ive seen an email from Mr C to Accredited where he said he should have said he was pretty 
much up-to-date with his payments. And in a call with our investigator Mr C said he knew his 
payments werent up-to-date. However, Mr C has also said that he didnt know his payments 
werent up-to-date as he didnt have access to his account. 
I dont think Mr C has been consistent with the information hes given about whether he 
knew he was up-to-date with his finance payments and as they are different, theyre unlikely 
to all be accurate. I think its likely Mr C knew his payments werent up-to-date. And as he 
told B they were, I think its fair and reasonable to Accredited to say he provided false 
information about that. 
While the information about the cars condition and the finance payments might not seem 
material to the claim to Mr C, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Accredited to say 
they are. This is because Accredited needs to assess the validity of the claim and Im 
satisfied that the inconsistent and inaccurate information provided by Mr C is material to 
Accredited doing that. 
Mr C has also said he had belongings in the car that havent been returned to him. He said 
some belongings have been returned but had to be thrown away as they were covered in 
petrol. Accredited said its agents confirmed that all belongings in the car were returned to  
Mr C. It may be that the items were stolen at the same time the car was vandalised, but if 
they were Accredited dont need to pay Mr C for them as I think it was fair for it to turn down 
the claim. I havent seen enough to persuade me any belongings have gone missing while 
the car was in the hands of Accrediteds agents. So, Im not going to require Accredited to 
pay Mr C anything for them. I also think it was fair and reasonable for Accredited to have let 
Mr C know that either he or the finance company could collect the car if they wanted to.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I think Accredited has 
acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman