DRN-1421948
 
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the fees JPS Financial Ltd (JPS) are charging her for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In June 2016 Miss W gave JPS authority to investigate potential mis-sold PPI complaints 
against several lenders. Lender B didnt respond to JPS until April 2017, and JPS then sent 
Miss W a Letter of Authority (LOA) for her to sign to progress the claim. But Miss W didnt 
sign and return this.
JPS chased Miss W throughout 2017 and 2018 for the return of the LOA. In July 2018 the 
Claims Management Regulator imposed a fee cap for PPI claims of 20% plus VAT. A new 
LOA was sent to Miss W in September 2018, and she signed and returned this in October 
2018. JPS made the claim against lender B on Miss Ws behalf, which was successful. JPS 
then invoiced for their fees of 30% plus VAT  their 2016 success fee.
Miss W has complained about the level of fee JPS are charging. She feels they should only 
charge 20% plus VAT because she signed the LOA after the fee cap came into place. JPS 
believe theyre entitled to charge 30% plus VAT, because this is the fee Miss W agreed to 
when she first instructed them in 2016.
Our investigator thought JPS were unreasonable in charging their original fee. Because Miss 
W didnt give JPS authority to act in the claim against lender B until October 2018, he didnt 
think it was fair that JPS charged their 2016 fee. So he recommended JPS reduce their fee 
to the level of the fee cap.
JPS didnt agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Its not disputed that Miss W instructed JPS in 2016, and that they charged their higher fee 
on the claims they successfully dealt with at this time. But the claim against lender B didnt 
proceed at this point, and Miss W didnt return the LOA for 18-months.
While JPS chased Miss W for the return of the LOA, its clear from her actions that Miss W 
didnt want JPS to deal with the claim at that time. This was Miss Ws choice to make. But, 
crucially, during this extended period of time, JPS fundamentally changed their terms and 
conditions  their fee was reduced from 30% plus VAT to 20% plus VAT.Because of this, when JPS sent the new LOA to Miss W in September 2018, they shouldve 
sent her a copy of their updated terms and conditions. It wasnt fair for them to rely upon the 
old terms just because the new terms were less favourable to them. So I agree with the 
investigator that JPS have acted unreasonably and should reduce the fees to the level 
detailed in their conditions that were in place in September 2018  20% plus VAT.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ws complaint. JPS Financial Ltd must 
reduce their fees from 30% plus VAT to 20% plus VAT for the successful claim against 
lender B. They should reissue their invoice based upon the new (reduced) fees. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman