DRN-1708385
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy at how NewDay Ltd, trading as Debenhams Card, dealt with a potentially 
fraudulent transaction on his account. 
What happened
On 9 May 2019, Mr K tried to make a payment on his Debenhams card, but the transaction 
was flagged as potentially fraudulent. So Debenhams put a block on his account. Mr K called 
Debenhams the same day but they werent able to unblock his account. Mr K asked to speak 
to a manager about this, but there wasnt one available to talk to him.
Debenhams completed the verification of the transaction and unblocked Mr Ks account on 
30 May. Mr K has said that, because of this, he lost a weeks income and it cost him an 
additional £72 by making the payment a week later.
Mr K has complained that Debenhams wouldnt verify the transaction and unblock his 
account on the day he called them to verify the payment was genuine. Hes also unhappy 
that he wasnt able to speak to a manager when he called on 9 May.
Debenhams have acknowledged there were service failings in the call of 9 May - they 
incorrectly told Mr K that the block would be removed within a week. Because of this theyve 
offered Mr K £75 (in addition to the £10 theyd already paid him). 
Our investigator said that Debenhams didnt need to do anything more. He said the terms 
and conditions of the account allowed Debenhams to refuse to authorise a transaction, and 
put a block on an account, if they suspect fraudulent or unauthorised use. And because 
there was no manager available when Mr K called, he didnt think Debenhams had done 
anything wrong by not transferring him to a manager.
The investigator also said the evidence showed Debenhams were investigating the 
transaction between 9 and 30 May, after which point the block was removed. Because of 
this, he felt the £75 Debenhams had offered Mr K was sufficient.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said Debenhams shouldve verified the 
transaction and unblocked his account on the day he called. And because he called them 
within office hours, a manager shouldve been available to talk to him. Hes also said that, 
because he didnt have the available credit on another card to make the payment the same 
day, he couldnt pay for another week. This meant his documents arrived a week later than 
they shouldve, and he lost a weeks work as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence, while I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. And if I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K is a taxi driver and, as I understand it, the payment related to documentation he 
needed to renew his private hire licence. Mr Ks licence expired on 14 June 2019. 
The terms and conditions allow Debenhams to flag any unusual transactions, verify them 
before authorisation, and block an account while the verification is being done. This is done 
to protect Mr Ks account, and to stop any potential fraudulent transactions going through. 
So I cant say that Debenhams did anything wrong in flagging this transaction.
Debenhams say that some transactions require further investigation by a Senior Investigator. 
Because of the amount and who it was being paid to, this was one of those transactions. 
And when Mr K called at 6:33pm on 9 May, there were no Senior Investigators available.
Ive listened to the call that took place on 9 May. While I dont have the timings for this call, 
while on the call Mr K said hed initially called Debenhams at 6pm (hed spoken to someone 
else before being transferred through to the fraud department). When asked to give details 
of the transaction he was trying to make, Mr K just said he was paying some bills. 
Debenhams explained they couldnt remove the restriction from the account immediately, 
and would need to refer the matter to a Senior Investigator. They also explained that there 
were no Senior Investigators or managers in the office at the time.
Debenhams told Mr K they couldnt say how long itd take for a Senior Investigator to review 
the transaction, but it wouldnt take anything longer than a week. This wasnt the case, and 
it took three weeks for the transaction to be verified, and the block on the account removed.
Debenhams has acknowledged that Mr K called them on 9 May, 11 May, 13 May, 15 May 
and 17 May. On each occasion he was promised a call back, but I cant see that this call 
back happened. This wouldve been very frustrating for Mr K. Debenhams have offered £75 
for their service failings. I agree that, because of the misinformation in the call on 9 May, and 
because of failure to call Mr K back when promised, this is a reasonable offer.
Mr K said, because it took him a week to get the money to pay for the documentation after 
his account was blocked, he was charged an additional £72. While Ive seen that Mr K did 
some balance transfers in the week following 9 May, which totalled around £300 more than 
the original transaction, Ive not seen anything to show me he was charged an additional 
£72. And Debenhams were allowed to investigate the transaction and block Mr Ks account 
while this was happening. So I wont be asking them to pay Mr K an additional £72.
I also havent seen anything to show that, because of the additional week it took Mr K to 
request the documentation, his new private hire licence didnt start until a week after the old 
one had expired. So I wont be asking Debenhams to pay Mr K any loss of earnings for this 
week. Its now for Mr K to decide whether to accept the £75 Debenhams offered or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about NewDay Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman