DRN-3742155
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited (formerly known as Tilney 
Financial Planning Limited) gave him unsuitable advice when recommending he didnt 
transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension into a self-invested pension (SIPP). He also says it 
took too long for it to give its recommendation. 
As the firm was known as Tilney at the point of the advice, Ive referred to that name 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr B was a member of his employers DB pension scheme. Hed been a member of that 
scheme for a significant number of years. 
In January 2019, the administrator of Mr Bs DB scheme wrote to him following his request 
for a quotation (he was due to leave the employment in March 2019). The administrator 
enclosed a transfer value quotation and explained that as the value was more than £30,000, 
Mr B needed to seek independent financial advice before making any decisions about his 
pension.
In a letter sent to Mr B in February 2019, the DB scheme trustees said theyd arranged, for a 
limited time, for Mr B to receive advice about his options from a specific advisory firm. The 
trustees later agreed to Mr B accessing his pension.
Having apparently already contacted the firm mentioned by the trustees, Mr B got in touch 
with Tilney around February 2019 for advice about potentially transferring his DB pension. 
According to what Mr Bs said, he explained to Tilney that he wanted to transfer his pension 
into a SIPP, primarily because he wanted to ensure he could leave the bulk of his estate to 
his wife should he predecease her. 
Mr B met an adviser from Tilneys Guilford office in early March 2019. Noting the expiry date 
of the transfer value (CETV) from Mr Bs DB scheme, the adviser apparently told Mr B that 
he didnt think the advice process could be completed in the time available. Mr B left his 
employment at the end of March 2019. Another CETV was required, so the adviser 
requested this and it was received around early July 2019 (the value had increased by that 
point). The updated CETV had an expiry date around 26 September 2019. 
Mr B got in touch with Tilney in early July 2019 as he was shortly to go on holiday, so he 
wouldnt be immediately available to sign any paperwork if needed. He didnt receive a reply. 
He then got in touch with Tilney again around 21 August 2019 as he hadnt heard anything 
more. It looked like Tilney was still working towards the deadline previously discussed. 
Despite that, and Mr B quickly providing further information in the meantime, Tilney couldnt 
meet its deadline of providing advice by late September 2019. 
Following further contact from Mr B (and given the delays already experienced) Tilney 
suggested that the work should be passed to its Cardiff office as it thought that might 
expedite things. It also suggested that another CETV should be obtained. 
Mr B met an adviser from the Cardiff office during November 2019. The adviser noted that 
Mr B very strongly wished to transfer his DB pension. His main reasons for wanting to do 
so were that various family members had died young, so Mr B thought it unlikely hed live 
beyond the age of 70 and wanted to live for now and enjoy his retirement. He also wanted 
control of his pension and to make sure that it went to his wife in the event that he died early 
- even if that meant risking some of the guaranteed income expected from the DB pension. 
The adviser also noted the following about Mr B:
He was age 59.
He was no longer working but expected to return to work in the not too distant future.
He had high blood pressure; type 2 diabetes and high cholesterol. He took regular 
medication. Hed been subject to a health assessment in the last 12 months and 
undergone surgery; investigations or been prescribed medication in the last 5 years. 
The question on the fact-find about whether there was any reason normal life 
expectancy might be compromised was answered no (Mr B has since questioned 
why a family history of chronic heart disease didnt count). However, elsewhere the 
adviser noted that Mr B had recently been subject to life changing events, as his 
brother died suddenly at age 65. Both parents also died young. So, Mr B thought it 
unlikely hed live beyond the age of 70.
Mr B was about to receive an inheritance of about £400,000 from his brother. 
The total current expenditure was around £62,100 a year, of which £6,000 (in relation 
to Mr Bs late brothers house) was short-term. Mr B was looking for an income of 
about £2,000 a month (£24,000 a year).
He owned his own home, which had an outstanding mortgage. Mr Bs home was up 
for sale, so the mortgage was expected to be paid off imminently, along with a car 
loan of £4,500.
He had £17,000 in a bank account and £20,000 in a cash ISA (from other information 
provided, it seems that the ISA might have been in place when Mr B first met Tilney, 
but wasnt by the time Tilney produced its suitability report). According to what Mr B 
later said, this amount was used as additional financial support for him and his wife). 
He was a keen investor, who enjoyed reading the financial press and business 
pages. Hed held investments in the past. However, if the transfer proceeded, Mr B 
was looking to have his pension managed on his behalf.
The DB pension was his main source of pension provision. 
His wife had a pension in her own right.
Following the sale of property, Mr B expected to have surplus funds of about £250K, 
to put towards his retirement. 
Mr B said that he was prepared to take some risk, albeit in a cautious way. He also 
wanted to have control of and benefit from the pension. His final risk category was 
assessed as B.
Tilney produced a suitability report dated 13 March 2020. 
Noting many of the same details captured in its earlier fact-find, Tilney also noted the 
following:
According to the latest calculations, the pension was expected to provide an annual 
income of over £16,000 at age 60 and over £23,000 at age 65 (with a lump sum 
available whether the pension was taken at age 60 or 65). 
Once settled following a house move, Mr B and his wife expected to work again 
giving them an annual income each of about £18,000 a year net. This level of income 
wasnt expected to cover their total expenditure, so Mr B needed to bridge the gap 
using his pension assets; inheritance, or house sale (or a combination of all three). 
Mr B expected to retire after a further two years work and his wife at age 60.
Even with an immediate and irrecoverable loss of 10%, Mr B would have enough 
resources to meet his needs. But in the short term especially as he was in the 
process of moving house, looking for work and selling an existing property, Mr Bs capacity for loss was limited. 
In the event that Mr B became too ill or couldnt find work, hed need to draw on more 
assets at an earlier age, putting further strain on his resources.
Tilney expected that an investor with a level B risk profile could reasonably expect an 
annual investment return of 2% after charges (0% in real terms assuming inflation is 
2%.)
The critical yield needed to match the pension being given up at age 65 was 14.23%. 
It was estimated to cost over £1 million to obtain a comparable level of income from 
an insurer. A critical yield wasnt available for age 60, but it was thought to be in 
excess of 50%. 
Tilney had also considered the potential to replicate benefits with an annuity. And 
after taking account of charges and a tax-free cash lump sum, the annual pension 
amount would be less than that expected from the DB scheme (although with more 
time Mr B might be able to get an enhanced rate annuity if he were to provide full 
medical details). But as Mr Bs main focus was providing the greatest death benefits 
to his wife, Tilney hadnt looked into it further at that time. 
If Mr B were to transfer his DB pension hed be subject to charges that would need to 
be met from his pension fund, which wasnt currently the case. So, it was cheaper to 
stay in the existing scheme.
Tilney accepted that if it were to recommend a transfer it would offer Mr B a greater 
amount of tax-free cash. In addition, hed be able to crystalise smaller amounts from 
his pension to access varied tax-free lump sums to meet his needs, rather than 
taking it in one go initially. It also offered greater flexibility when it came to death 
benefits and (subject to market conditions) the opportunity to pass on a residual fund 
to wider family members. 
However, in summary, based on Mr Bs circumstances (which were going through a period 
of change), Tilney felt staying in the scheme was in Mr Bs best interests overall. And in 
terms of his desire to provide for his wife in the event of his death, it pointed out a DB 
pension was intended to provide an income in retirement - it wasnt a life assurance policy. It 
also suggested it could reassess the situation when Mr Bs circumstances were more certain 
and when he was looking to retire. 
Mr B disagreed with Tilneys advice (not to transfer) not least because hed been planning 
for his retirement for many years. He asked Tilney to review its decision as he felt it had 
consistently ignored his particular circumstances.  
Mr B formally complained to Tilney about its advice and the time it had taken to receive it. 
In its response sent in June 2020 Tilney said: 
it should have been able to meet the September 2019 deadline. But it hadnt been 
able to due to reduced capacity from staff shortages. 
However, it was satisfied that once transferred to a different office, things were 
handled in a timely manner.
Its advice not to transfer was suitable based on Mr Bs circumstances and needs. 
And it again cited the reasons why Mr Bs needs would be better served by staying in 
the DB scheme. 
Tilney appreciated that Mr Bs main requirement was to have control over his pension 
and to use it as he saw fit. It also noted that he didnt agree with the mortality rates 
used (given his health and family history). However, it didnt share Mr Bs view about 
that. It thought Mr Bs wifes needs could be met by the DB scheme and there was no 
benefit in him transferring his pension to provide greater lump sum benefits. Tilney partially upheld the complaint and accepted that it should have had sufficient 
resources in place to enable its work to be carried out in a timely manner. On that basis it 
agreed to reduce its fee to £4,000 including VAT (from £5,000 plus VAT). 
Mr B wasnt happy with Tilneys response, so he complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and didnt think Tilney needed to take further action. 
Amongst other things he said that:
There needed to be a good chance of improving on the benefits available if Tilney 
were to demonstrate a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests.  According to a transfer 
value comparator (TVC) it would cost about £1 million in a personal pension to match 
the DB benefits available. 
The critical yield needed just to match the benefits being given up was around 14%. 
The investigator felt that the opportunity to improve on the benefits was limited 
because the critical yield was too high. He also thought it unlikely it could be 
achieved bearing in mind Mr Bs low attitude to risk. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Tilney to conclude that with medication 
and lifestyle choices, Mr Bs life expectancy may be greater than he expected. 
Especially as the fact find didnt record anything that was likely to specifically shorten 
his life expectancy. 
The administrator of Mr Bs DB scheme had arranged for a third party to give him 
free advice about his DB benefits. Although our investigator hadnt seen a copy of 
that report (and Mr B later pointed out that hed had some difficulty getting hold of it)  
the investigator thought it reasonable to assume its advice was similar to Tilneys. 
Noting that pension rules enable people diagnosed with a terminal illness (which 
wasnt a position Mr B was in) to have their pension benefits paid in a lump sum, the 
investigator thought Tilneys advice not to transfer was reasonable. And whilst he 
appreciated why it was frustrating for Mr B not to have received the advice he was 
hoping for, the investigator said he couldnt fault Tilney for fulfilling its professional 
duty and giving Mr B unbiased advice. 
However, he agreed that Tilney should have met the September 2019 deadline. And, 
even though he felt Tilney was entitled to charge for the work it did, he also felt that it 
could have made it clearer how much it would charge if it advised against the 
transfer, or if it didnt occur for any other reason. That said, the investigator said he 
wasnt in a position to tell Tilney not to charge a fee, or to refund more of it. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators assessment and made a number of detailed points  
in response. Although the investigator considered those points, they didnt change his 
opinion overall. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaints been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter. And I can see why he might 
think Tilney hasnt been responsive to his needs given its advice not to transfer. But, when 
considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).  
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsWhat Ive set out below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which 
applied at the time of the advice. But it provides useful context for my assessment of Tilney's 
actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) states in COBS 19.1.6 (2) that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable (although I note 
Mr Bs point that this wasnt made clear to him at the time). Given that position, if it were to 
recommend a transfer, Tilney needed to clearly demonstrate that there were compelling 
reasons to do so and that it was in Mr Bs best interests overall. 
So, thats the backdrop against which I considered whether Tilneys advice not to transfer 
seemed reasonable. And having considered Mr Bs complaint very carefully, taking account 
of his circumstances and objectives overall, I think it was. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
A key factor when giving advice about a potential DB transfer is how likely it is that the 
investment returns from the new pension are capable of exceeding the benefits being given 
up. If there was little prospect of that happening, then there would be little point giving up 
valuable and guaranteed benefits only for things to stand still. 
This had to be a key consideration for Tilney when giving Mr B advice. Tilney thought that a 
cautious investor like Mr B could probably expect to achieve an annual investment return of 
up to about 2% in the medium to long term after charges were factored in. That compares to 
a critical yield (the investment growth needed just to match the equivalent benefits being 
given up and cover charges) of 14.23% at the normal scheme retirement age of 65. The 
critical yield needed to match the benefits being given up at age 60 was thought to be much 
higher - in excess of 50% (Tilney wasnt actually able to calculate a critical yield), 
presumably because of the proximity of the advice to Mr Bs 60th birthday). 
Mr B had indicated he was willing to allow his investment to grow safely for about 5 years 
until the age of 65. And whilst that might be the case, unless Tilney could demonstrate that 
Mr Bs pension was likely to exceed the benefits available within the DB scheme, it was 
reasonable for it to conclude that it wasnt financially viable for Mr B to transfer his pension. 
I think theres also a world of difference between a fund growing safely and a transfer being 
likely to result in an overall loss in real terms. And from everything Ive seen, I think there 
was a real prospect of that happening in Mr Bs case. I say this because of the effects of 
fees and inflation on Mr Bs funds. Further, according to another comparison that Tilney 
made, in order to buy another pension that would provide an equivalent level of benefits as 
the DB scheme, it would cost over £1milion. Taking these factors together, I think it was reasonable for Tilney to conclude that it wasnt 
financially viable for Mr B to transfer his DB pension. And I think it was right to also mention 
the other financial benefits of Mr B remaining in the scheme too. Those included that all 
costs were previously being met by Mr Bs DB scheme as opposed to Mr B having to meet 
the costs through his own fund, and the DB scheme not being subject to market fluctuations. 
For these reasons alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which might make a transfer suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. 
I thought about Mr Bs other objectives to decide whether any were compelling enough to 
make a transfer suitable. But for reasons that Ill go on to explain, Im not persuaded they 
were.
Flexibility and control
I think its worth making clear here that Tilneys role was to discern what Mr Bs wants and 
needs were and establish why he wanted to transfer his pension. It wasnt simply there to 
facilitate what Mr B wanted. 
Mr B made it clear that he wanted to take control of his pension away from the trustees to 
enable him to live for now. In itself thats not an unusual objective. But Tilney also needed 
to understand what that meant in Mr Bs particular case. So, for instance, if Mr Bs intention 
was to simply withdraw from his funds as and when he wished, Tilney needed to make sure 
it fully understood Mr Bs wider financial position and income needs in retirement. Thats to 
ensure that Mr B didnt run the risk of his funds depleting too early into his retirement, or at 
least that he had other means of topping up his retirement fund if they did. 
Im satisfied that Tilney explored these things through its fact find and highlighted the 
potential risks. But, Im not persuaded that Mr B was actually looking for a flexible income in 
retirement. I say that because the fact find shows he had a fairly clear idea of how much 
income hed need to maintain a certain lifestyle. According to whats been noted, Mr B was 
looking for an income of about £2,000 a month. That being the case, one of the first things 
Tilney needed to consider was whether that need could be met by staying in the DB scheme.
The illustrations that Tilney obtained indicated that Mr Bs DB pension would probably pay 
him over £16,000 a year at age 60 (with tax-free cash on top) and in the region of £23,000 a 
year at age 65 (with a figure somewhere between the two depending on his age at 
retirement). Therefore, it seems to me that Mr B could have met part of his income needs in 
retirement through the DB scheme at age 60 and an even bigger proportion once he got to 
age 65. In those circumstances I think Tilney was right to question whether Mr B needed to 
do anything with his DB pension. Especially as it looked like hed be able to top up any 
shortfalls from other funds quite easily.
Bearing in mind that there needs to be compelling reasons to support a DB transfer, I think 
Tilney was right to tell Mr B that, unlike his DB pension, if he were to transfer, the only 
guaranteed income hed have would be his state pension. And that alone wouldnt meet his 
future income needs. So that would seem to be another factor in favour of staying in the DB 
scheme. 
But I think there were other factors that supported that position too. Mr B was about to 
receive the residual fund from an inheritance. And he expected to have ready access to 
funds if he needed them. So, its not entirely clear, why Mr B also needed to access his DB 
fund at that time too. But in any event, Mr Bs circumstances were in a state of flux at that time. He was in the process of selling property and relocating. And, he expected to secure 
employment for another two years at least. Any changes to those plans may well have 
impacted Mr Bs decision and needs. So, again, Im of the view that hed have been better 
leaving things as they were, at least until his circumstances were more settled  especially 
as he had other fairly substantial means to fall back on if needed. 
As far as regaining control was concerned, I think Tilney was right to say that with control 
came additional costs. Previously, any costs of running the pension scheme were met by the 
scheme itself. That was something that Mr B would have to meet if he transferred. But Tilney 
also needed to understand Mr Bs experience relevant to managing his investments, 
otherwise it seems unlikely hed be able to take the control he was perhaps seeking. From 
what I can gather, Mr B had some previous investment experience and appears to have 
been well read in investment matters. Whether thats enough to say he was sufficiently 
experienced to manage the investments himself is less clear. In any event, Mr B had already 
indicated that if he transferred, hed be looking for a firm to manage the investment on his 
behalf. So, whilst I agree that Mr B would have more control about investment choices, 
meaning his objective could certainly be met in part by transferring, Im not necessarily 
persuaded Mr B would have overall control of his investment in those circumstances. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And that is certainly the case with Mr B. 
Hes been clear that he wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to provide a legacy 
to his wife and, in turn, her family.
But, as I've said above, the regulators starting position was for Tilney to assume that a 
transfer was not in Mr Bs best interests. So, it could only reasonably make a 
recommendation to transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Bs best interest 
overall. 
I can see that Tilney did acknowledge that, if considered in isolation, an alternative plan 
probably would offer a greater level of death benefits than the DB Scheme. However, it had 
to consider that in the context of what Mr B would have to give up to achieve higher death 
benefits. 
Importantly though, Tilneys priority was to make a recommendation concerning Mr Bs 
retirement provision. Thats because a pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Tilney to prioritise Mr Bs income in 
retirement over potentially higher death benefits for his loved ones. And I can see that Tilney 
also told Mr B his DB pension wasnt intended to act as a life assurance policy.
In addition, Mr Bs annual pension was not based on investment performance, whereas the 
sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. If investment returns were poor, or Mr B 
lived a long life, there may not have been much left to pass on. Whereas in the event of 
Mr Bs premature death, his wife wouldve been entitled to a guaranteed, escalating 50% 
spouses pension, which I think wouldve been of use to her. And, as Mr Bs intention was to 
slowly grow his pension upon transferring it as opposed to drawing from it, another option 
was possibly for him to ringfence some of the other funds that he was expecting to receive 
and use that as a legacy for his wife and her family. That wouldnt require him to give up the 
guaranteed index-linked and increasing benefits from the DB scheme.
Im satisfied that Tilney also thought about other ways that Mr B could meet this objective 
without having to transfer his DB pension. It suggested he could potentially take out a 
separate life assurance contract that would provide a specific legacy for his loved ones. It seems that Mr B discounted that option. Even if he was able to take out such a policy, due 
to his health issues, I think its likely the costs might have been prohibitive. So, I can 
understand why that wasnt pursued further.  
All of that said, overall, I think it was reasonable for Tilney to have considered the DB 
scheme income to be more beneficial to Mr B for his retirement provision, and to his wife on 
his early death, compared to the possibility of higher death benefits by transferring. 
Health and family medical history
I acknowledge that Mr B had various health conditions and a family history of early death. In 
that context, I can see why he might have had concerns about his life expectancy. And I can 
also appreciate why he perhaps thought Tilneys advice should have been to transfer.  
And whilst Tilney didnt delve into things to the extent that Mr B was perhaps expecting (hed 
indicated it should have obtained his medical records), Im satisfied that it didnt just overlook 
these factors either. Neither am I persuaded that it would have changed the position overall. 
I say that for a few different reasons. 
Mr B clearly listed his medical conditions and mentioned the ages of close family members 
when theyd died. Hed also indicated hed been subject to some health assessments fairly 
recently and was taking regular medication. So, if anything, that probably indicated that his 
conditions were more under control or were certainly being monitored. Statistically, given the 
ages of other family members whod died, I can see why Mr B might have thought it unlikely 
hed live much beyond the age of 70. But I dont think thats automatically the case, 
especially taking account of advancements in medicine and science. Nor have I seen 
anything to suggest that Mr B told Tilney at the time that hed received a different prognosis.
So, in those circumstances, whilst it was right for Tilney to think about life expectancy (I can 
see that it thought about the impact of his diabetes in particular), I havent seen anything 
sufficiently persuasive to suggest that Mr B not reaching his normal life expectancy was 
more than just a possibility. Or, as Mr B seems to think, it should have based its advice and 
recommendation on a different set of mortality rates. Neither do I agree that it was essential 
Mr Bs wishes were carried out. I think it was equally possible that Mr Bs life expectancy 
could exceed the level suggested, in which case hed need his pension to last longer, 
especially as he was only 59 at the time of the advice. 
If Mr B transferred out of the DB scheme, he would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide death benefits. 
Whereas a spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. Overall, I dont think the 
different death benefits available through a transfer to an alternative pension justified the 
potential decrease in retirement benefits for Mr B.
Delays in giving transfer advice
To some extent, this issue is no longer in dispute. Tilney accepts that it didnt get things right 
as far as its early handling of things is concerned and its since agreed to reduce the fee it 
proposed charging. So, I think the question I need to consider is whether its offer goes far 
enough.
Tilney told Mr B that its fee would be £5,000 +VAT (although I note the March 2020 
suitability report suggests a higher figure it seems Tilney agreed to honour the initial quote 
given). So, presumably thats the fee that it typically charges when giving transfer advice of 
this kind. I fully agree that Tilney took far too long to tell Mr B that it wouldnt support a DB 
transfer. And whilst Mr B may feel that Tilney wasted his time, realistically, I cant see how it could have given meaningful advice and a personal recommendation without first going 
through a detailed process. 
Mr B also thinks that Tilneys charging structure is weighted too heavily in its favour 
irrespective of whether it makes a recommendation to transfer or not. I can see that when it 
first engaged with Mr B Tilney said To do this work the cost is £5,000 + vat. That is for 
everything  the initial transfer advice, administration, portfolio recommendation and sign off 
(assuming a transfer is the correct course of action). 
I think Tilney should have made it clearer in its early communication that the fee was fixed, 
irrespective of whether its advice was to transfer or not. Otherwise I think it might have given 
the impression that a different fee was payable even if a transfer wasnt recommended. 
Although I note that things were clarified in the March 2020 suitability report.
I thought about whether Tilney needs to do anything more here. And, on balance, I dont 
think it does. I note Mr Bs position that Tilney should either have agreed to a transfer or 
declined his business before any fees were discussed. Thats not a position I share for many 
of the reasons Ive already set out. Whilst noting Mr Bs position now, Im not persuaded that 
he would have walked away had the fees been clearer from the outset. He was clearly intent 
on transferring and had already received advice from another firm beforehand. So, it seems 
more likely than not that Mr B would want to see the advice process through to a conclusion. 
But Tilney couldnt say whether it would recommend a transfer until it had completed that 
process and it still had to do a fair amount of work to get to the point where it could give a 
recommendation one way or another. I think its entitled to charge a fee for that. 
All of those things said, I agree that had Tilney not delayed things Mr B would have known 
the outcome much sooner. And he could have made an earlier decision about what to do 
next. That may even have involved approaching a different firm for advice. So, I think Mr B 
was inconvenienced by Tilneys delay. And I imagine the news that it didnt support a 
transfer (bearing in mind Mr B said hed wanted to open a SIPP for years) was all the more 
disappointing following a period of delay. 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But as I 
said earlier, Tilney wasnt there just to transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests overall.
Ultimately, I think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. If Mr B had transferred, hed have 
been giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income in exchange for lower 
retirement benefits. And, in my view, there were no reasons which would have justified a 
transfer in Mr Bs particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
Taking account of the factors Ive highlighted above, I think Tilneys offer to reduce the fee to 
£4,000 including VAT is reasonable. And I think it fairly recognises the impact of the delay on 
Mr B. So, Im going to direct Tilney to reduce its fee accordingly.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited now needs to 
take the action Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman