DRN-3311474
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the advice she received from St. James's Place Wealth Management 
Plc, referred to as SJP or the business. 
In short, she says:
Shes unhappy about the fees charged. She doesnt feel like they were properly 
explained, and there was a lack of transparency. 
It wasnt made clear to her what restricted advice meant. She doesnt think the 
advice she received was in her best interest. 
Shes disappointed with the performance of her investments and doesnt think the 
overall recommendation is suitable. 
Shed agreed for all her funds held in Unit Trusts to be used to utilise her ISA 
allowance each year, but this didnt happen. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The documentation provided made reasonably clear the fees. 
For example, the key facts document (KFD) for the ISA, prepared in May 2016 made 
clear the following: 
oInitial charge of 5%. 
oInitial advice and service charge of 4.5%.
oOngoing advice of 0.50%.  
The same fees applied for the Unit Trusts, which commenced in November 2016, 
and were also referred to in the KFD and recommendation letter. 
It was made clear to Mrs A that despite her wanting to invest in a Vanguard Tracker 
Fund (the Vanguard fund), it wasnt possible. The documentation also made clear 
that the advice was restricted/limited, and it was important she read and understood 
the key documentation. 
Investment performance isnt something that wed consider in isolation. Mrs As 
Wealth Account summary, dated 8 March 2019, shows that the investments made in 
2016 and 2017 have made a steady growth. 
The factsheets relating to the Managed Funds portfolio  a medium to long term 
investment  and the Adventurous portfolio  a longer term investment  highlighted 
the importance of having the investments in place for the requisite period. The 
documentation also made clear that significant fluctuations in value were likely for 
portfolios held in the shorter term.   
In this instance, moving investments early  that had otherwise been intended to be 
invested for the medium to long term, or longer term  is likely to have had an impact 
on the returns. 
Despite what Mrs A says, comparison to the Vanguard fund isnt possible, given the 
different charging structure. In other words, shes persuaded by the business 
explanation that the SJP funds cant be directly compared to the Vanguard fund 
because the latter is a clean share class meaning it excludes the impact of platform 
advice and advice fees.  
The recommendations made to Mrs A were otherwise broadly suitable. 
In compliance with the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) the business 
obtained information about Mrs As financial situation, knowledge and experience of 
investments, and investment objective, to make sure the recommendation was 
suitable. This was compiled into the recommendation letter, fact find, and key 
features document. 
Given Mrs As circumstances, she was in a good position to invest and take a risk (or 
a greater risk than she normally would) with a portion of her money in the medium to 
long, and longer, term. 
The risk wasnt more than she was prepared to take, she had access to enough cash 
in case of emergency and was in a position to replace any losses.
The recommendations also achieved the aim of diversifying her portfolio as well as a 
better chance of achieving greater returns over the respective terms. 
Despite what Mrs A says about the Vanguard fund, even if it was likely to do better, 
this doesnt mean the recommendations made were unsuitable. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
She (and/or Mr A) remain confused over the fees charged. Making sense of the 
paperwork is confusing and therefore should be backed up by verbal explanation, as 
required by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). 
She had no choice but to move her investments after her relationship with the adviser 
had irretrievably broken down, so its the businesss fault. Theres no mention that the 
adviser continued taking fees, even after the relationship ended, and no alternative 
adviser was given. 
In terms of the ISA, the business didnt do what it said it would and instead blamed its 
computer. 
The onus was on the business to explain restricted advice but it didnt. The written 
explanation it did provide was inadequate, especially for new advisers. She thought it 
meant that the adviser would be offering what it considered the best companies 
after due diligence not that they could only offer us the products of one company, that 
company being the one they were tied in to. So, the business failed to explain that it 
could only offer restricted advice. 
She earned an income as a full partner in the business, so the investigators remarks 
regarding this point isnt correct. 
She wasnt persuaded that the investigator had considered all aspects of her 
complaint including the appendices and all the information provided. Despite 
suggesting that the investigator couldnt comment on various points, she went on to 
defend the business position, based on assumptions shed made about how the 
conversation went.   
The businesss behavior in this instance breached various rules under COBS. 
Theres clearly a problem with the way SJP treats customers and there appears to be 
little motivation for it to change. As a consequence, customers miss out as well as 
IFAs that could pick up the business. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she made the following key points:
She has considered all of the evidence provided by Mrs A and the business. 
Its unlikely that an investment recommended for a term five years, or ten years, is 
likely to reach its potential in the short(er) term.  
Despite what Mrs A now says  about the ISA wrapper, and the feeder  she was recommended specific investments which she agreed to. If shed preferred to go with 
a different route, she ought to have discussed this with the adviser at the time. 
She understands that Mrs A felt it important to move her investments. She only 
considered performance because it was part of Mrs As complaint  but the two 
investments referred to above couldnt be directly compared. 
In terms of the restricted advice, she considers that any queries about this point  as 
well as the Vanguard fund or the ISA wrapper  couldve been raised at the time. 
The business has already made clear why it wasnt recommending Mrs A invest in a 
pension instead of investing.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs A says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, I dont think the 
recommendations were unsuitable given her circumstances at the time, and Im broadly 
satisfied that the fees were made reasonably clear to her. 
Ive previously dealt with a joint complaint from Mrs A and her husband (Mr A) in detail, 
about very similar issues, but Im aware this complaint concerns only Mrs A. So, despite the 
obvious overlaps, and having had the benefit of dealing with a similar complaint, Ive 
considered the issues relating to her afresh but I wont be making the same points in as 
much detail.   
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note, and make 
clear again, I very much recognise Mrs As strength of feeling about this matter. She and the 
business have provided detailed submissions in respect of the complaint, which Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs A wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. Having 
deal with the previous complaint, Im aware of the background to this complaint and their 
(previous) relationship with the adviser. 
I reiterate that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question 
raised under a separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a 
decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not 
considering the pertinent points. Im also not bound by the decision of another ombudsman. 
Even if the cases are similar, even the smallest difference can make a difference to the 
outcome. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs A and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. Im not here to decide if the business couldve done things differently. 
Im considering whether (or not) it made an error in respect of the advice it provided. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.For the reasons set out by the investigator, in the background of this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation  to invest in the ISA, Unit Trust Feeder with a 
Managed Funds Portfolio, and Unit Trust with an Adventurous portfolio  was unsuitable in 
the circumstances. 
I note in June 2016, Mrs A was initially advised to invest around £16,042 in an ISA, and 
£18,957 into the Unit Trust Feeder  invested in the Managed Fund Portfolio. In November 
2016, she was later advised to invest another £5,000 into another Unit Trust, this time in the 
Adventurous Portfolio. In November 2017, she was advised to invest in the Managed Funds 
Portfolio  Im aware Mrs A (and her husband) had around £180,000 cash available. 
In 2016, I note it was recorded that Mrs A was retired and in receipt of an annual investment 
income of around £24,245. She also had £20,000 in her current account, £20,933 invested 
in cash ISAs, and various monies in various joint accounts  it was established that she had 
access to around £40,000 with her husband. 
She also had a property portfolio with her husband valued at around £1.3 million, which 
comprised of a number of buy-to-let properties  from which she and her husband received 
an income  and included the house she lived in with family.
Her objective was capital growth, in the medium to long term. I note the business says that 
she knew her money could be working harder for her. Im aware that shed been unhappy 
with returns from deposit accounts and wanted potentially better returns on her money. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mrs A was, in this instance, willing to 
take a risk, arguably greater than she had in the past, in order to achieve better returns in 
the longer term. I also note she had a reasonable amount of experience in different types of 
investments, and that this was an opportunity to diversify her portfolio, by investing in 
equities (and some overseas equities), rather than paying off their buy-to-let mortgages or 
buying more buy-to-let properties for example. 
I note the Managed Funds Portfolio was made up of various funds, including: the Balanced 
Managed; Managed Growth; Multi Asset; Strategic Income Gross; and Strategic Managed. I 
note that although over 50% of the assets were invested in overseas equities, these were in 
stable markets such as North America, Europe, and the UK. The remainder was invested in 
shares, fixed interest and index linked bonds issued by companies, governments, and UK 
equities. On balance, I agree with the investigator that this mix was likely to have somewhat 
mitigated the risks involved in investing in equities and provided some layer of security, and 
that Mrs A was more likely than not comfortable investing this way. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I also cant say that the advice in due course to invest 
£5,000 in the Adventurous Fund  upper medium level of risk, invested in global equities 
with over a quarter in emerging markets and Asia and Pacific equities  was unsuitable. 
Based on what the business says, and my previous dealings, Im satisfied that Mrs A wanted 
to try something riskier and didnt specifically ask for these to be placed in a wrapper. 
Whilst I appreciate that it was more risk than Mrs A had taken previously taken, it was only in 
respect of a small sum of money, in order to achieve a higher level of growth. On balance, 
Im satisfied that this was a calculated risk that Mrs A was more likely than not prepared to 
take. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not the fees were 
made clear to Mrs A. Im mindful that the first recommendation letter sent to Mrs A  dated 
June 2016  was sent roughly two months or so after the meeting in April 2016. The letter 
confirmed points of discussion, and documentation provided, including the KFD, and Service and Costs which described the products they offer, the service they provide and the cost of 
their advice and Terms of Business.  
Despite what Mrs A now says, on balance, I think its unlikely that the fees wouldnt have 
been made reasonably clear and/or discussed with her at any point verbally. I dont have the 
evidence to safely conclude that this wasnt the case. 
I appreciate Mrs A is unhappy about how much shes paid in fees. But Im mindful that a 
business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to set 
its own fees. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs, and certainly not the level 
of fees that it should apply. Restricted advice also isnt of itself a reason to lower fees, so the 
business hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so in this instance.   
Whilst its difficult to know for sure what was and wasnt said at the meeting(s), based on the 
documentation provided Im unable to say that the business behaved unreasonably and/or 
that it didnt make reasonably clear the fees that would apply. 
Its unlikely Mrs A wouldve thought that no fees applied, and if she wasnt happy with what 
was suggested (and/or  more likely than not  discussed) or if there was something in the 
documentation that wasnt previously raised or brought to her attention, she ought 
reasonably to have raised it with the adviser. If Mrs A chose not to read the documentation 
provided, or not to question/seek clarification with the adviser, this isnt something I can 
blame the business for. Based on what she now says, it seems there was some potential for 
negotiating lower fees, but this wasnt something she engaged in with the adviser. 
I note what Mrs A says about the relationship breakdown with her adviser, but on balance I 
think its (more likely than not) she still wouldve had to pay fees until shed moved all her 
investments. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, it could be argued that Mrs A knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that she was being offered restricted advice. 
I note the adviser made clear that he couldnt recommend/sell the Vanguard fund or words to 
that effect, despite her wanting to consider that as an option. On balance, I think its more 
likely than not that this wouldve been questioned by Mrs A and an explanation offered. The 
suggestion that no explanation wouldve been sought or provided is highly unlikely. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the business was wrong to make other 
recommendations, albeit from products that it was tied to. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that SJP told Mrs A or led her to believe that it could 
recommend the Vanguard fund but advised her to invest in Unit Trusts instead. I think its 
more likely than not SJP made clear it couldnt sell the Vanguard fund, because its advice 
was restricted, but had other products it could recommend she consider (which still met her 
objective(s) and need(s))  which is what I think probably happened. 
In addition to the above, I note that with each recommendation Mrs A wouldve received the 
Services Costs and Disclosure Document (the SCDD). Section 1 of that document  out of 
the three options - for independent advice, restricted advice, and no advice  had the 
restricted advice ticked which stated: 
Restricted advice  will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have assessed 
your needs. We will offer products from a limited number of companies. You may ask us for 
a list of the companies whose products we offer.In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant say that the above explanation taken together 
with any verbal communication on the point, fell short of what would generally be expected 
by the FCA. 
If Mrs A was still unclear about what restricted advice meant for her, I think she 
couldve/shouldve sought clarification. I dont consider that it required any kind of detective 
work or piecing together different bits of information rather than just considering the 
information as a whole  and if it still didnt make sense to her, she ought reasonably to have 
raised this with the adviser.
Instead I note Mrs A drew her own conclusion, that the advice was restricted to a few 
companies picked by the adviser (presumably from the wider market), but Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that this is what the adviser told her. I also note at the time, Mrs A was speaking 
to an independent financial adviser, albeit specialising in properties, to see what they could 
offer, potentially compared to the advice she was getting from SJP. So, on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, despite what she now says, Im unable to safely say that she 
wouldve done things differently, even if she wasnt clear about what restricted advice meant.  
I note that the business has subsequently explained in its final response, that its partners are 
required to: 
look at the products available within our range and give advice based on what would be 
the best and most appropriate product for a clients stated needs and objectives. They are 
not required, and are indeed not allowed, to give evidence on products outside of the St. 
Jamess Place Group.   
Even if I was to conclude that it wasnt made clear to Mrs A that she was receiving restricted 
advice  which I dont think was the case  it doesnt of itself automatically mean that the 
advice given wasnt in her best interest. Its not an uncommon financial practice, it isnt 
outlawed, and is preferred by some established financial institutions. 
I think any suggestion the adviser pretended or led Mrs A to believe that it could offer 
independent financial advice from the whole-of-market, and then offered one of his own 
products is not a conclusion I can reach in this instance.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that the advice given, wasnt in Mrs 
As best interest  taking into account her financial circumstances, aims and objectives  just 
because it was from a range of products rather than the wider financial market. 
I note Mrs A says shes asked for the list, but it hasnt been provided  this isnt a reason to 
uphold the complaint. Im sure the business will endeavour to do so if she still wants one. 
It may be helpful to point out in general terms at this stage that fund performance isnt an
issue that our service would generally look at in isolation  Im mindful this is important to 
Mrs A as she was looking to make some money on her investments. 
But, unless a guarantee on returns was given by the business, regardless of any assumption
Mrs A may have made, its not something that the business couldve predicted or had control 
over. It was subject to numerous factors outside of the business control. Despite what she 
says, poor performance isnt generally evidence of unreasonable behaviour. 
In other words, the performance of an investment is dependent on market movements and 
isnt something that a business can guarantee or predict. In this instance Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the business gave Mrs A any guarantees about what she might get back.Im also mindful that investments that were intended to be maintained for the medium to long 
term (or longer term), are likely to be negatively impacted if moved/surrendered in the short 
term when volatility is arguably higher. Mrs A choosing of her own volition to move her 
investment early, albeit after the relationship with the adviser ended, is likely to have had a 
material impact on the investment performance but this isnt something I can blame the 
business for. I note she said that she and her husband had become disenchanted and 
decided that damage limitation was their best option. On balance I dont think it was 
envisaged by either party that this what would happen less than a third of the way through 
the period she shouldve maintained the investment for. 
Im conscious that a business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement, to decide who it does business with  I cant force it to provide a 
service to a customer if it doesnt want to. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, its not 
a decision or stance that I can blame the business for taking.  
I note the investigator said that she hadnt seen any significant drop to the investments over 
the three years or so period that they were held, but the full growth probably wasnt utilised 
 in the circumstances and on balance, I dont think thats an unreasonable conclusion. 
I note the business has made clear that direct comparisons with the Vanguard fund arent 
possible, given that the SJP funds are net of all fees, whereas the Vanguard fund is a clean 
share class, which excludes the impact of platform and advice fees. And that the Vanguard 
fund is unlikely to be doing as well as might first appear once the fees are considered. In any 
case, on balance Im satisfied that any suggestion that the Vanguard fund did better is made 
in hindsight and doesnt of itself mean that the recommendation was unsuitable. Im also 
mindful that at the time the adviser probably wouldnt have been able to fully compare (or 
obliged to compare) the Vanguard fund to his recommendation because it wasnt a product 
he could promote or sell. 
Any suggestion that the adviser mis-sold investments  that he set up as the Vanguard fund, 
and/or to feed into their ISA  isnt something that I can safely conclude. 
On balance Im satisfied that the key policy documentation made reasonably clear the 
investments that had been recommended and subsequently set up, and Mrs A knew or 
ought reasonably to have known this at the time. So, she couldve and shouldve raised an 
issue with the adviser, if it wasnt what she wanted, and not wait several years to raise an 
issue and do so with the benefit of hindsight. It could be argued that if the investments had 
been doing exceptionally well, or what she perceived to be doing well, she wouldnt have 
complained at all. 
 
In any case, I note the suitability letters in respect of the Unit Trusts made clear the 
following:
A Unit Trust Feeder was discounted because you did not wish to fund future ISA allowances 
with this investment as it is small in size 
It could argued, as the business has done, that the smaller investment into the two Unit 
Trusts  made in higher risk investments  were investments in their own right, and that Mrs 
A probably wanted to keep this separate to the rest of her portfolio. I appreciate Mrs A 
doesnt recall specifically agreeing to this, but it doesnt mean that she didnt, and this might 
help explain why not all funds were held in an ISA wrapper. I note she was asked if she had 
other funds that could make use of the ISA wrapper, which suggests that the wrapper 
probably hadnt been used in respect of her last investments. In addition to the above, I also note the 2017 letter sent by Mrs A (and Mr A) asking for the 
feeder facility to be implemented on the Unit Trust ending 833. Im conscious the business 
said that this could only be implemented on one investment at a time, so it was cancelled on 
the investment ending 819, and started on the investment ending 833. Ive seen no evidence 
of any subsequent instructions to start the feeder facility on the other Unit Trust once the 
funds in the investment ending 833 had been exhausted. Despite what Mrs A now says, I 
note that she couldnt hold two ISA feeder accounts, so this was unlikely to happen in any 
case. 
I understand that at this point a recommendation wasnt made to invest in a pension 
because, despite discussing the possibility, Mrs A had no earned income and she preferred 
to invest her money somewhere she could access it penalty free, although it wasnt 
anticipated that she would. It seems that she was also taking advice from her accountant  
who was probably better placed to go through her finances  and may make a pension 
investment later. 
I appreciate Mrs A was receiving income with Mr A from their investments including the 
rental properties, but I think the point the business was making is that it wasnt as a result of 
direct employment  I note she was recorded as retired. But if this wasnt correct  which I 
believe it was  she ought to have raised it with the adviser at the time, as the adviser can 
only advise on the basis of the information provided.  
Based on what Mrs A says, it seems she accepts to some extent that the adviser may have 
sold her (and Mr A) the best fit SJP product and recognises that the adviser was doing the 
his best for her/them, although I note she maintains he wasnt acting as a fiduciary. 
Im mindful of Mrs As wider points, but on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to safely say that the business hasnt acted honestly, fairly, and professionally in 
accordance with her best interest. 
I appreciate Mrs A will likely be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Im sorry that it has taken
this long to get to the decision stage. 
Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything in
relation to the complaint points considered in this decision.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mrs A what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman