DRN-4235505
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the time taken to transfer his pension from Sterling ISA 
Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark (Advance) to a new provider Interactive 
Investor Services Limited (IISL). 
Mr G has stated the delay led to a period of time where he could not make investment 
changes to his pension and additional charges being taken by Advance.
What happened
Mr G completed the forms to commence the transfer of his pension from Advance to IISL on 
22 August 2022. These were sent to Advance on 5 September 2022 and chased up on 12 
September 2022. 
Advance sent a valuation and list of assets on 6 October 2022. Following receipt of this IISL 
confirmed to Advance on 10 October 2022 the assets which could be accepted in-specie by 
the new scheme and those which would need to be encashed prior to transfer. Re-
registration details were also provided at this time.
Having received an updated valuation from Advance, the same transfer information was 
provided by IISL again on 16 October 2022.
The re-registration of the funds to be transferred in-specie began on 21 October 2022. 
Those funds which would not be accepted by the new IISL pension (and could not be 
transferred in-specie) were sold with the resulting cash transferred to the new pension on 4 
November 2022.
IISL chased Advance for an update regarding the remainder of the funds later in November 
2022, with Advance suggesting IISL contact their platform partner FNZ for further 
information.
IISL chased FNZ on 16 November 2022 and were then informed that the Stock Transfer 
Forms (STFs) were issued to the various fund managers on 16 November 2022.
Given the delays suffered and the still incomplete transfer of his pension, Mr G complained 
to Advance. Advance issued their response to the complaint on 20 December 2022. This 
accepted that there had been delays in the process and upheld the complaint. Advance 
accepted that they had not actioned the initial stages of the transfer process within their 
usual timeframes. Additionally, Advance stated that the STFs had to be issued by post and 
that delays had been suffered due to postal strikes, with a number of fund managers 
confirming that the STFs had not been received. £100 was offered to Mr G to cover the 
trouble and upset caused.
FNZ re-issued the outstanding STFs on 21 December 2022.
An auto dis-investment from some of the underlying funds held within Mr Gs Advance 
pension occurred to fund ongoing advice and platform charges on the pension. As a result, 
FNZ confirmed to IISL that some units would have to be returned  this information was 
provided on 25 January 2023.
FNZ re-issued further STFs to four different fund managers on 9 February 2023. These were 
chased on 16 February 2023 when it was confirmed that some had not been received with 
two having incorrect information, meaning they could not be actioned.
FNZ re-issued STFs again on 14 March 2022 with the entirety of the funds being re-
registered with IISL by 28 March 2023.
Unhappy with Advances response to his complaint Mr G registered his case with this 
service in January 2023.
Our investigator looked into things. Whilst initially providing this service with some of the 
information requested, Advance did not respond to our investigators requests for additional 
evidence. As such, findings were issued based on the information already on file.
The investigator examined the chain of events and concluded that the transfer should have 
been completed sooner than it was. Having looked at each step in the transfer process and 
removed what were considered the unreasonable delays suffered, our investigator 
concluded that the transfer of all funds should have been completed by 25 November 2022.
To put things right our investigator stated that all fees charged by Advance from 25 
November 2022 until the Advance pension was closed should be returned to Mr G with 
added interest.
Following the issuance of these findings Mr G confirmed he accepted what had been said. 
Advance did not respond to the findings issued nor any subsequent contact from this service 
in relation to this case.
As such the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to note that I have based this decision on the evidence available with 
incomplete information provided by Advance. 
Additionally, I would like to point out that in cases such as this it is impossible for me to know 
exactly what would have happened and when, the decision I have reached is therefore 
based on industry guidance and best practice, as well as the principles of reasonableness 
and fairness.
Overall, having looked at the information on file I have reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator  the transfer of Mr Gs pension from Advance to IISL was unduly delayed. I 
have also concluded that the hypothetical alternative timeline proposed by our investigator in 
the findings already issued is entirely reasonable, and as such I see no reason to change it. 
Given the timeline has been well documented to both parties within the findings already 
issued, I have only included a summary of the key dates and reasons for these dates within 
this decision.
The framework guidance for pension transfers is set out by the Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG). This explains that:
The TRIG believes that organisations should adopt a maximum standard of two full 
business days for completing each of their own steps in all transfer and re-
registration processes within the scope of this Framework.
Additionally, it is noted that any steps which require documentation to be posted would add 
at least one day to each step.
Additional guidance which is useful to consider in cases such as this is PERG 12.2 which 
states: 
The operator of a personal pension scheme is the person who is responsible to the 
members of the scheme for ensuring that the scheme is operated in accordance with 
relevant pensions and tax legislation, the scheme's constitution and the regulatory 
system. Provided he remains responsible to the members for such matters, he will 
remain the operator even though he may delegate or out-source the day-to-day 
carrying out of his functions as operator to another person. That other person will not 
become an operator of the scheme purely as a result of carrying out such functions 
on behalf of the operator.
This shows that whilst elements of the running of the pension scheme can be outsourced it 
is the operator (Advance) who remain responsible and accountable to the policyholder 
(Mr G).
It is clear from the timeline above, and Advances own response to the complaint (issued on 
20 December 2022) that the early part of the process was delayed.
In line with what has been proposed by our investigator I have concluded that the initial 
policy valuation should have been issued by Advance by 20 September 2022.
Allowing for the issuance of a new updated valuation and adding time for IISL to respond to 
this, all the information would have been available for Advance (and their administrative 
partner FNZ) to enable the STFs to be issued by 6 October 2022.
Here I would note that there did seem to be a significant delay in sending the STFs and the 
incomplete information available to me means I cannot say whether this was due to errors by 
Advance, FNZ or both. However, in line with the PERG guidance above I do not consider it 
unreasonable to hold Advance accountable, given it is they who held the relationship with 
Mr G.
Following the issuance of the STFs some of the funds were re-registered within two weeks, 
and it is clear that there were significant variances between the response times for individual 
fund managers. However, given some funds had been re-registered after two weeks it is not 
unreasonable to expect Advance to chase the remaining fund managers after this timeframe.
This would result in unresponsive fund managers being chased on 20 October 2022.
Following this more detailed enquiries could have been made to individual fund managers 
with any incorrect STF information being amended and correct forms being issued.
Had this alternative chain of events been followed all re-registrations would have been 
completed by around 22 November 2022, with final confirmation of complete transfer being 
issued by IISL by 25 November 2022.I would again like to note that it is impossible for me to know exactly what would have 
occurred had there not been any unreasonable delays on Advances part, especially given 
the incomplete evidence available to me. It has been informed by the TRIG and PERG 
guidance and has in part been based on actual turnaround times achieved during the 
transfer process. 
Whilst I would note that in some parts the timescales allowed could be considered generous, 
allowing more time for Advance / FNZ / individual fund managers to complete their internal 
processes I do not consider them unreasonable.
As such I have upheld this complaint and have not amended the alternative timeline detailed 
by our investigator.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in had the unreasonable delays to his pension transfer been avoided.
I take the view that Mr G would have incurred fewer charges on his Advance pension had 
the transfer been completed in a reasonable timeframe. As such the redress instructions 
below seek to rectify this issue.
As per the findings issued by our investigator, the fees charged by Advance from 25 
November 2022 to the date the Advance pension was closed should be calculated and paid 
to Mr G with 8% simple interest applied from the date they were charged to the date of 
settlement. 
As the funds remained invested throughout the delay period no investment loss occurred 
and as such this does not need to be factored into the redress. The only actual loss 
suffered by Mr G relates to the additional fees paid. I have noted Mr Gs comments that 
during the delay period he did not have the ability to make changes to his underlying 
investments however switches to the underlying funds could still have been made whilst the 
transfer process was being completed by Advance.
As such, the redress instructions below remain in line with those proposed by our 
investigator.
What must Advance do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Advance must:
Calculate the Advance fees deducted from the Advance pension from 25 November 
2022 onwards.
Advance should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Advance should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Advance is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr G £200 for the distress and inconvenience the lengthy delays would have 
undoubtedly caused. This is in addition to the £100 already offered. If the £100 
already offered has not been paid (or the cheque no longer valid) this payment 
should be re-issued to Mr G in addition to the above.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Advance deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Advance should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Advance 
pension 
charges No longer in 
forceActual 
charges 
deducted25 
November 
2022Date 
Advance 
pension 
ceased to be 
held8% simple 
per year on 
any charges 
deducted 
from the date 
of charge to 
the date of 
settlement
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted to transfer his pension with Advance causing unreasonable delays to 
the process. Additional Advance charges were incurred during this delay period. 
No consideration or deduction to the redress needs to be made to factor in the new 
IISL pension charges, as these are flat charges, already being paid, that would have 
been unaffected by the transfer in value.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as 
Advance by Embark should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format. Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman