DRN-3975068
The complaint
Ms M has complained about fees and charges applied to her mortgage account by Topaz 
Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages, and referred to here as Topaz. Ms M is also 
unhappy at the way Topaz has communicated with her.
On 13 February 2023 I issued a decision in which I explained that I would only be looking at 
the account in November and December 2019.
What happened
Ms M has a mortgage taken out in 2007, originally taken out with a lender I will call N, but 
which is now owned by Topaz. Although this is a regulated residential mortgage rather than 
a buy-to-let, it appears the property has been rented out since 2007.
Ms M has raised previous complaints about fees and charges on the account. Topaz has 
confirmed that fees and interest on the account applied prior to October 2019 had been 
removed and the account had been re-worked.
Ms M brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator noted that there had been two 
fees applied to the account  a field agent fee of £54 in November 2019, and a second field 
agent fee of £54 in December 2019. 
The investigator thought the November 2019 fee had been fairly charged. However, there 
was nothing to indicate that a field agent had visited the property again, so she thought 
Topaz should refund the second fee charged in December 2019.
Topaz agreed to this, but Ms M did not think it was enough to resolve the complaint. The 
complaint has therefore been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I have already decided that the only issues that are within the jurisdiction of 
this service are the charges from November and December 2019. I therefore wont comment 
on any other fees and charges that have been applied to the account.
I can see that a field agent visited the property in November 2019. Im therefore satisfied that 
the fee of £54 charged for this has been properly applied. I cant see any other field agent 
visit, so I agreed with the investigator that the £54 field agent fee applied in December 2019 
should be reimbursed.
Topaz has refunded a number of other fees on the account as a gesture of goodwill, due to 
Ms Ms vulnerability. Fees charged to the account between 1 March 2020 and 30 September 
2021 were refunded by Topaz. Given that this is a tenanted property, I think this is more than 
Topaz is required to do, and Im not ordering Topaz to refund any more fees.
Other matters
The mortgage is substantially in arrears, and although Topaz has commenced legal action, 
this has been put on hold. Lenders will sometimes put recovery action on hold whilst we look 
at a complaint, but they dont have to, and we cant force them to; if the Financial 
Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality between the parties 
to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring 
complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate 
action to recover money owed to them. 
I would not want Ms M to be under any misunderstanding that if she was to bring another 
complaint to us about the mortgage, that we would tell Topaz to suspend any legal action. I 
do not intend to cause any distress to Ms M but I think its important that she doesnt 
underestimate the seriousness of the situation she is in.
Furthermore, the tenant in the property told the field agent in November 2019 that the 
tenancy had begun 12 years earlier  so in 2007, when the mortgage was taken out  and 
provided details for the letting agent. This is a residential mortgage, not a buy-to-let, and so 
renting it out without consent is a breach of the mortgage conditions. There is nothing in 
Topazs notes to show that Ms M has applied for, or been granted, consent to let. Online 
data shows that, as at November 2022, a new tenancy had been agreed.
It is reasonable to assume that Ms M has been receiving rent for the property throughout the 
mortgage term, so it is difficult to understand why she has not paid the mortgage from the 
rental income. Given the level of arrears and the unauthorised tenancy, Topaz would, in my 
opinion, be justified in pursuing its legal remedies through the courts. 
I appreciate Ms M is vulnerable and that she finds Topazs contact with her to be distressing. 
However, Ms M is not in danger of losing her home  because she doesnt live in the 
mortgaged property, and seemingly never has. So whilst Topaz needs to take account of 
Ms Ms circumstances in the way it communicates with her, this doesnt mean that Topaz is 
prohibited from taking steps to recover the outstanding debt, particularly as her home isnt at 
risk.
Ms M does have the option of re-mortgaging with another lender onto a buy-to-let mortgage 
if she wants to continue to rent out the property. Ms M might want to speak to a specialist 
mortgage broker if this is something she would like to consider. Alternatively Ms M could 
move into the property and begin to occupy it as her main residence, in line with the 
mortgage terms and conditions. That might, however, involve legal costs in terminating the 
tenancy which began in November 2022. But there is no basis on which it is fair or 
reasonable for Ms M to continue to rent out the property with such large arrears on the 
account, but expect Topaz to take no action.
If Ms M is in financial difficulty she may want to speak to a free debt advisory service such as 
StepChange or Citizens Advice. We can provide contact details for those agencies if Ms M 
would like us to.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages should 
remove the £54 field agent fee charged in December 2019, along with interest applied to it.My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and direct Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Heliodor Mortgages to settle it as detailed above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman