DRN-3871899
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about poor advice from Newcastle Building Society when they 
extended the term of their interest only mortgage and took out a five-year fixed interest rate 
product. 
Mrs E has dealt with the complaint. She asks that NBS refunds the early repayment charge 
(ERC) they paid when they re-mortgaged in 2021 and pays compensation for their distress 
and injury to feelings. 
What happened
Mrs E took out an interest only mortgage with NBS which was ported in 2012. At that time 
the mortgage was in Mrs Es name with Mr E as guarantor. The term expired in 2019 with an 
unpaid balance. Mrs E applied to extend the term on an interest only basis. NBS agreed to 
this, with Mr E added to the mortgage account. Mr and Mrs E took out a five-year fixed 
interest rate product.
Mrs E says:
NBS only dealt with Mr E in 2019, even though she was the account holder. She says 
she wasnt permitted to hear or learn about the mortgage.
Mr E lacked mental capacity to understand the mortgage or advice. 
She later found out the mortgage recommended by NBS wasnt suitable for her. She 
says it should have advised them to take out an equity release product. 
When they took out an equity release mortgage in 2021 NBS applied an ERC. Mrs E 
asks that this is refunded.
Our investigator said Mrs E asked NBS to deal with Mr E on her behalf in 2019. He said 
there was nothing to suggest Mr E lacked mental capacity in 2019 and he couldnt hold NBS 
responsible for something it wasnt aware of. The investigator said the mortgage 
recommendation was suitable and the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer that Mr and 
Mrs E accepted. Mrs E didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mrs Es mortgage expired in 2019 with an unpaid balance. Mrs E asked NBS to 
extend the term of the mortgage on an interest only basis. 
NBS didnt at that time offer interest only mortgages. It looked into the available options to 
assist Mrs E. A repayment mortgage in Mrs Es sole name wasnt affordable. It couldnt offer 
a new mortgage to Mr and Mrs E as this required anyone over 17 living in the property to 
sign a consent to mortgage form. NBS was told that Mr and Mrs Es daughter lived in the 
property with them and didnt have mental capacity to sign the form. Mr and Mrs E didnt 
want to sell the property at that time as they had two children attending local schools.
Due to Mr and Mrs Es circumstances, NBS agreed to extend the term of the mortgage on an 
interest only basis. Mr E, previously a guarantor, was added to the mortgage account. 
Mr and Mrs E signed a form headed assessment of your interest only repayment plans in 
October 2019. This said their repayment plan included investments which they expected to 
be worth about £155,000 when the mortgage term expired, and the sale of the property 
which was valued at about £690,000. The mortgage balance was about £120,000. 
NBS sent a letter addressed to Mr and Mrs E in October 2019. This said it only offered 
products from its own range. It sent a recommendation letter addressed to Mr and Mrs E in 
October 2019. This said it recommended a five-year fixed interest rate product because Mr 
and Mrs E wanted certainty with their payments and had no plans to move or make any 
large lump sum payments. The letter referred them to the financial consequences of 
repaying the mortgage early. 
NBS sent a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs E in October 2019. The ERC was clearly set out in 
the form of a table. Both Mr E and Mrs E signed the mortgage offer. 
Mrs E says this was bad advice, which resulted in them having to pay an ERC when they re-
mortgaged with an equity release mortgage. She says NBS only dealt with Mr E, who didnt 
have mental capacity to deal with the mortgage. Mrs E says NBS should refund the ERC 
and pay compensation.
Mrs E referred to court decisions which she says support her complaint. While we take law, 
regulation and good industry practice into account, we make decisions based on whats fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances. I should also explain that where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive carefully read and considered all of the evidence and taken the following into account 
when making my decision.
NBS didnt offer a new loan to Mr and Mrs E in 2019. Due to Mrs Es circumstances, it 
agreed to extend the term of her mortgage on an interest only basis. Mr E, previously a 
guarantor, was added to the account.
I think the mortgage recommendation was suitable given what NBS knew about Mr and 
Mrs Es circumstances and aims. 
NBS didnt offer equity release mortgages at that time. If this was something Mr and 
Mrs E wanted to look into, theyd have needed to take advice elsewhere. I think it was 
fair for NBS to look into what support it could offer Mr and Mrs E, who had an expired 
mortgage with an unpaid balance. 
In April 2019 Mrs E authorised NBS to deal with Mr E on her behalf. I think it was 
reasonable for NBS to assume this was what Mrs E wanted. She could still have been 
involved in discussions with the mortgage adviser if this was what she wanted. 
Correspondence about the mortgage was addressed to both Mr E and Mrs E. Mrs E 
signed the mortgage offer and the form headed assessment of your interest only repayment plans. If Mrs E didnt feel she had enough information about the mortgage, 
NBS couldnt have known this. 
Adults are assumed to have mental capacity  the ability to make their own decisions  
unless its proved otherwise. I should make it clear that Im not making any findings 
about Mr Es mental capacity in 2019. Im only considering what NBS knew or ought 
reasonably to have known at that time. 
Mrs E asked NBS to deal with Mr E on her behalf. It seems unlikely shed have done this 
if there were concerns about his mental capacity. 
Mrs E provided a copy of the first page of a tribunal decision in 2022 about Mr Es 
entitlement to personal independence payments (PIP). Mrs E says the tribunal found that 
Mr E lacked mental capacity from September 2017. Mrs E says she couldnt have known 
in 2019 that Mr E lacked mental capacity as this was before the tribunal issued the 
decision. 
Mrs E provided documents related to Mr Es PIP and her carers allowance to NBS in 
2021. 
I cant fairly find that NBS ought reasonably to have been aware that Mr E didnt have 
mental capacity in 2019 on the basis of documents it received some time after this, or a 
tribunal decision made in 2022. 
Mrs E said NBS was aware that Mr E lacked mental capacity in 2014 when the 
Department of Work and Pensions started making mortgage payments. She says this 
was because Mr E was receiving employment support allowance (ESA). I dont think its 
reasonable to say that NBS could reasonably have known that Mr E lacked mental 
capacity to deal with the mortgage because he received ESA. 
While Mrs E says NBS was or should have been aware in 2019 that Mr E lacked mental 
capacity to deal with the mortgage the available evidence doesnt support this.
When Mr and Mrs E took out the five-year fixed interest rate product they agreed to the 
terms, including the ERC. NBS was entitled to apply the ERC when they repaid the 
mortgage during the product term. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
to require NBS to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs E.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman