DRN-2126458
Complaint
Mr T complains that MCE Insurance company Limited (MCE) avoided his motorbike
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
Background 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. MCE disagreed so the
complaint has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 14 August 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr T replied saying he disagreed with my decision.  Mr T 
strongly denies he intentionally mis-led MCE and felt his home was safer than a bricked 
garage. He said MCE did not have an option to select a garage away from his home and he 
selected what he felt was the best fit. Mr T has added how difficult he has found it to 
purchase insurance elsewhere and feels the remedies MCE has applied arent fair given he 
made an honest mistake. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Mr T took out a motorbike insurance policy with MCE online. At the time of the application,
he advised MCE that he kept the motorbike in a bricked garage when he was at home.
Mr T took his bike out and left it chained while he spent some time by a river  he says he
spent approximately 15 minutes there. His view from the river to the motorbike was blocked
by a few trees. Unfortunately, his bike was stolen during this time although no chains were
left behind.
When his bike was stolen, he made a claim to MCE. But MCE says Mr T had deliberately
misrepresented his circumstances to it. So, MCE avoided his policy, and said it didnt need
to pay his claim.
MCE said hed answered the question it asked about where he kept the bike at home
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation, which
entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because of this and keep the premium hed
already paid it. Although in this instance, it did refund Mr Ts premium.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. Although
they agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation, they didnt think this was
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless and said MCE should reinstate the
policy and consider Mr Ts claim. And, if it decided to settle it, it should do so proportionately.
MCE didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It felt
that although it accepts Mr T has gone through a difficult time, he hadnt taken reasonable
care in answering the question and felt Mr T had answered it incorrectly deliberately.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
MCE thinks Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
stated in his application online that the storage location of his bike was a garage. Mr T does
not have a garage and he kept the bike inside his house in his hallway.
Ive looked at the question MCE asked, and Im satisfied it was a clear question asking him
where he would keep the bike when he was at home. It also set out a number of options for
Mr T to select  these options included:
Car park
Car port
Garage
Kept on 3rd Party
Locked Building
Locked Compound
Parked on Drive
Private Property
Mr T selected Garage so his online application then went on to ask him what material the
garage was built from  it again set out a number of options for him to select including brick
and wood. Mr T selected brick.
Mr T does not have a garage and has said he kept the bike inside his home in his hallway. I
dont think theres any doubt that his answers were factually incorrect. But I have to assess
whether he took reasonable care when answering the questions as he did.
I understand immediately before taking out this insurance Mr T suffered a loss thats likely to
have caused him deep distress. So, Im mindful about his state of mind at the time. I would
understand if he hadnt read the question properly and quickly selected an option without
thinking too deeply about his answer. But hed then had a second opportunity to think about
his answer when the application specifically asked him what type of material the garage had
been built with. Im struggling to see why he continued to proceed with his answer that hekept his bike in a garage. At this point, I wouldve thought Mr T - had he not read the earlier
question properly  wouldve been prompted to go back and think about his answer and
change it to one that better suited where he kept his bike.
MCE then emailed Mr T a key facts document which clearly set out that hed said he kept the
bike in a garage  this document asked him to check the information hed given was
accurate and get in touch if anything was incorrect. Mr T was also sent an email with clear
pictures and diagrams of garages and the importance of ensuring customers tell MCE if they
are not keeping their vehicles in a garage. The emails specifically explained the risks of not
adequately telling MCE where he was keeping his bike.
Mr T accepts he opened these emails but said he didnt read through them carefully as given
his circumstances, insurance was not his priority. But the garage sections of these
documents have images, which are brightly coloured, so even a quickly flick through will
draw your attention to it.
So, I think MCE asked clear questions which Mr T didnt take reasonable care to answer. I
also think MCE then gave Mr T an opportunity to correct his earlier answers  and Mr T did
not do this.
Mr T has added that he occasionally keeps the garage at his friends house who does have
a garage  but even if he were to keep it at another location  I can see there is an option to
select kept on 3rd party. The question MCE asked Mr T was where he kept the bike when he
was at his home. Mr Ts documentation clearly shows he told MCE that its kept in a garage
at his address.
MCE has shown us his application record which shows that it charged a lower premium for
his policy because hed selected a bricked garage. Had he correctly told MCE that it was
being kept at his own house, MCE has shown us it wouldve charged a higher premium. So
Mr Ts policy was less than it should have been.
This means Im satisfied Mr Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
MCE says Mr Ts misrepresentation was deliberate because he knew his answer couldnt
have been right so, he has deliberately mis-led it. It adds that keeping the bike at a locked
garage leads to the least amount of premium being charged and generally customers know
this.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr T made a mistake carelessly or whether his answers
could be deliberate like MCE believes. This is an important question as it significantly effects
the remedies MCE is able to apply.
While I understand he was going through a difficult time, and I sympathise with his situation,
Im struggling to understand how Mr T selected garage and continued to proceed with his
application based on that answer  when he doesnt have a garage. Ive thought about
whether he has simply flicked through and picked an option and moved on without thinking
about it. But I believe Mr T read the question, and he mustve read the options to select his
answer. Garage wasnt at the top of the list, so he mustve have glanced through the
answers before finding and selecting garage. Hes then gone on to specifically answer that
the garage (one that doesnt exist) was built with bricks.
So, overall, I think Mr T knew his answers were not an accurate reflection of the truth, and
he continued to let MCE believe incorrectly that his bike was being stored in a garage at his
address despite receiving multiple reminders of the importance of making sure these
answers were correct.I understand Mr T now says he does have access to a garage as he occasionally keeps it at
his friends garage  but this is not where he was keeping it daily, and it wasnt the case
when he took out the policy. And even if he was answering the question with his friends
garage in mind at the time, this leads me to think hed thought more deeply about the
question  and he ought to have ensured the insurer knew the garage was not at his
property  which is what he told MCE. His documents clearly show that MCE believed the
bike was being stored at his address in a garage. I note Mr T has had a full license for 35
years so its likely he has some experience of taking out motor insurance policies too.
So overall, while I sympathise with the difficult circumstances Mr T was dealing with at the
time he took out his policy, and dont underestimate the toll it took on him, I think that Mr Ts
misrepresentations were deliberate  in the sense that when Mr T chose his answers, he
knew they were incorrect, knew they were important to MCE, but selected them anyway.
As Im satisfied Mr Ts misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate, Ive looked at the
actions MCE can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Im satisfied MCE was entitled to avoid Mr Ts policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this
means that  in effect  his policy never existed, MCE does not have to deal with his claim
following the theft of his motorbike. CIDRA also allows MCE to keep the premiums Mr T has
paid where the misrepresentation was deliberate. But MCE has refunded his premiums
which I cant say is unfair.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think
allowing MCE to rely on it to avoid Mr Ts policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in
this complaint.
Mr T says MCE hadnt set out enough options to reflect his circumstances and suggested an 
option that he wouldve selected had it been available (which is garage away from the 
home). But I hope Mr T understands that insurers have to create applications forms that can 
be used by many thousands of customers and its difficult to capture every possible 
eventuality. As Ive said in my provisional decision, in my view, suitable options were 
available to him and if he was keeping the motorbike on his friends property (be that in a 
garage or elsewhere), he should have selected Kept on 3rd Party as his friend is a third 
party to the insurance contract. And if Mr T still felt his circumstances werent captured by 
any of the options set out, he ought to have contacted MCE to discuss this.
Im satisfied MCE made it clear that it had offered insurance on the grounds that the 
motorbike was being kept at a garage at Mr Ts property and gave enough warnings to Mr T 
of the consequence of not telling it that this was incorrect. And Im also satisfied Mr T had 
the opportunity to contact MCE to discuss this if he needed to. 
I also understand Mr T felt that his home was safer than a bricked garage, but it is for 
insurers to assess risk (and charge a corresponding premium) when they offer insurance not 
customers. And MCE has shown me from its internal criteria that it charges the lowest 
premiums for garages. This is why MCE sets out so clearly the importance of making sure 
that it is given accurate information. 
Mr T has added that due to the personal loss he experienced before taking out this 
insurance, although he did open the emails MCE sent, he wasnt able to digest the long 
emails and documents that the emails contained. But as Ive said before, the emails were 
colour coded with diagrams that clearly set things out for him. And I have to bear in mind, 
that he was able to go online and complete an entire application with similar wording. Overall, I still think Mr T knew his motorbike wasnt being kept in a garage at his home, and 
he knew that this was important to MCE but he chose those answers anyway. As Ive 
decided his misrepresentation was deliberate, CIDRA sets out the remedies MCE is able to 
apply, and Im satisfied its done so correctly.  
While I sympathise with the difficulties Mr T is now experiencing, Im afraid Im unable to 
compel MCE to be more lenient towards him as its entitled to take this course of action.  
Although Ive thought carefully about everything Mr T has said, I find no reason to depart 
from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman