DRN-2868532
The complaint
Miss L complains about the service she received when transferring her ISA to Yorkshire 
Building Society.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But the 
key facts are:
YBS upheld Miss Ls complaint and offered compensation of £181.85 (£175 for the 
distress and inconvenience shed suffered and £6.85 for lost interest).
Our investigator found the offer was fair and broadly in line with this services 
approach.
Miss L didnt agree and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as she thought 
that the offer was insufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only briefly set out the findings and arguments above, I would like to assure
both parties that Ive read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigators opinion that the offer is fair for these reasons:
YBS have already agreed that the service theyve provided was below the standard 
they expect. Therefore, the only thing for me to consider is if the redress theyve 
offered is fair.
Ive firstly thought about if Miss L has lost out financially and how YBS have 
attempted to put her back in the position she would have been in had no errors 
occurred. Theyve offered to repay Miss L for the interest she lost out on by not being 
able to transfer her ISA. This seems fair and is in line what I would expect as a 
resolution in this type of scenario.
Our rules (DISP 3.7.2R of the Financial Conduct Authority's handbook) also allow us 
to make an award for distress and inconvenience. With this in mind, Ive considered 
the level of service Miss L received from YBS. Its clear she has been left upset and 
inconvenienced by the way she had been dealt with by YBS. I can see, for example, 
that she was given incorrect information and was unable to get through to YBS on 
the phone and when she eventually did their systems were down. She also had poor 
service when she spoke to them on the phone. 
Taking all this into account, I can appreciate why she was left frustrated, as its clear 
that the service provided by YBS fell below an acceptable standard. But I must 
consider whether, in the circumstances, the £175 compensation offered by YBS is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience caused.
For me to fairly order to award further compensation to Miss L, I would have to be 
satisfied that YBS actions have had a greater than moderate impact. Having 
considered everything and despite what Miss L has said, Im not persuaded it has. 
So, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask YBS to offer Miss L any more 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I consider the offer made by Yorkshire Building Society to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman