DRN-2241176
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys one-off upfront premium of £989.28 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. figures. The 
total monthly repayment was £172.03 and whilst Barclays hasnt been able to provide us the 
monthly amounts, I think that by applying the same proportions as existed in the loans, Mr B 
would have paid approximately £142.61 per month for the loan and an additional £28.42 per 
month for the PPI, most likely.
The policy provided cover for Mr B for accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness and 
life  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Bs monthly loan 
repayment for up to the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 
months in the event of unemployment. 
At the time, Mr B was employed as an operator for a building products firm. He has told us 
he was entitled to between six and twelve months employee pay if he was too unwell to 
work. He hasnt told us of any employee redundancy pay he may have received and told us 
he didnt have any other means of repaying his loan should he be unable to work. Mr B has 
said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mr B has told us he suffered from a muscle tear in 1994 and had to visit his doctor once. He 
said he missed a total of between three and six months work because of it.
Barclays has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1999.
Mr Bs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr B about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim; 
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint
This sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 1999. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Banking 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Barclays gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Barclays, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Barclays doesnt have a copy of Mr Bs loan application or loan agreement, but I dont find 
this surprising because of the length of time since the sale and businesses arent obliged to 
keep paperwork indefinitely. But Barclays has been able to give us a sample copy of its loan 
application form and loan agreement which it says would have been used at the time of the 
sale. I dont see any reason not assume that Mr B would have completed these forms or 
similar.
The loan application form asks for personal details about Mr B  his address, employment 
details etc and then there is separate box entitled Barclayloan Protection. There is a choice 
of two boxes to be ticked  one to take the policy and another not to take it. So, Mr B had a 
choice about whether he wanted to take the policy or not. 
The loan agreement which resulted from the loan application has two separate columns of 
boxes. One is entitled Cash Loan and the other is entitled Premium loan (being the single 
premium payment to purchase Barclayloan Protection). Underneath those headings are 
boxes detailing the amount of the loans, the total charge for credit, the monthly repayment 
(including a box for combined monthly repayment) and the number of repayments. I think 
this made clear, that as a result of Mr Bs loan application, that PPI was being added to his 
loan. And I think that if Mr B hadnt wanted to take the policy, he would have questioned it at 
the time he completed the loan agreement.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide advice?
Mr B hasnt told us whether he was given advice by Barclays, but Barclays has said advice 
was given in-branch. And its sales process at the time would indicate this was the case. As 
Mr B hasnt given me any reason to think that this was a non-advised sale, Im satisfied that 
its most likely advice was given. 
This means Barclays had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited information about Mr Bs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mr B would have been caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest Barclays considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. So, Im 
not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mr B had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet 
his loan repayments would have been put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay benefits he says he would have 
been entitled to.
- The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr B.
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr B. There was 
nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for 
him to claim. Regarding the pre-existing medical condition Mr B has told us about  
the muscle tear in 1994  Mr B hasnt told us that this condition had caused him to 
seek medical advice or any further problems since the illness occurred  and in 
particular in the 12 months prior to taking the policy  which would suggest it wasnt 
ongoing. And because I dont consider his condition ongoing, I dont think the policy 
was unsuitable for     Mr B. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
- Although a pro-rata refund would not have been paid if Mr B cancelled the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mr B had plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything else which 
might suggest a need to repay the loan early, or that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, Barclays gave Mr B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr B was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And while I havent seen a copy of Mr Bs actual agreement, 
the sample agreement I have seen suggests Mr B knew the cost of the single premium being 
added to the loan, the interest, the total and monthly cost (as this information would have 
been, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr B signed).  But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit - or about the exclusions or limitations before  
Mr B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded Barclays did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr B. Im not persuaded Barclays gave Mr B all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Bs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like    Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have done either. 
What effect did Barclayss shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did    Mr B 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy, had Barclays done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr B would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when Barclays advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would cover his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment), as I think its unlikely he 
would have agreed to take something out without having some idea of what it was. And 
while I havent seen anything to show that Mr B was told about the cost of the policy at the 
point of application it was given in the loan agreement itself. So, I think Mr B knew the single 
premium being added to the loan was £989.28 and he would have known the monthly cost 
of that loan as this information would have been, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan 
agreement he signed.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Barclays made clear exactly what Mr B would get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his 
loan repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr B knew about or 
ought to have known about before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata refund if Mr B repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled, so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr B to have done so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable to 
do his normal job or any other paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr B says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr Bs muscle tear occurred four years 
before he took the policy. And from what Mr B has told us, it seems unlikely this was an 
ongoing condition.
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his normal 
job or any other paid work which is education, education or training reasonably qualified him 
to do, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr B was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences were Mr B made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the consumer 
wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. They 
say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr B would not have 
bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr B 
found himself in as result of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to 
alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a 
better position than if everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman