DRN-3841299
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd turned
down a claim on its commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Mr B, a director of T, has complained on Ts behalf.
What happened
One of Ts vans was stolen from its employees home address, so T claimed on its policy
with Accredited. Accredited reviewed the claim and turned it down. They said as the
employee hadnt held a UK licence for over two years then he wasnt covered by the policy.
T didnt think this was fair and complained. It said the employee was 23 days away from
having their UK licence for two years. T also said as the claim was for a theft it didnt think
the length of time their employee had a licence for made a difference. Accredited reviewed
the complaint but didnt uphold it, so T referred its complaint here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that as
the claim was for a theft of the van, she didnt think it made a difference to how long the last
driver had held a UK licence for. Accredited didnt agree, they said as the employee
shouldnt have been driving the van then it would never have been at their home address.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2022 where I said:
Ts policy schedule lists several endorsements to the policy. The one Accredited have relied
upon to turn down the claim says:
This Insurance Policy shall not operate whilst your vehicle is being used
by or is in the charge of any person under twenty-five years of age or is
the holder of a provisional driving licence or who is twenty-five years of
age or over but has had less than two years driving experience, under
the type of licence required, in the United Kingdom other than the
following person(s):
The employee who had last driven the van and whose house it was outside when it was
stolen isnt listed on the schedule. However, Im not persuaded they needed to be, and it
therefore follows that Im not satisfied Accredited have fairly turned down this claim.
I say that because the term says that those who are over 25 need to have two years driving
experience under the type of licence required within the UK. T has explained that their
employee is over the age of 25 and had moved to the UK from a country outside of the
European Union, and that they had a driving licence in that country for several years.
The UK Governments website explains that if you move to the UK and had a full car and
motorcycle licence in the country you moved from. Then you can drive on that for 12 months
from when you become a resident in the UK. I can also see that Ts employee was 23 days
off having their full UK driving licence for two years. It would therefore appear that when
adding the initial 12 months to the 23 months hed held the UK licence he most likely had 
two years driving experience under the type of licence required in the UK and so met the
endorsement on the policy.
As Im not persuaded Accredited have shown Ts employee didnt meet the endorsement on
the policy, Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable for them to turn down the claim. To put
things right Accredited therefore need to pay the claim for the stolen van, in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
T didnt respond to my provisional decision. Accredited responded and said they didnt have 
any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither T nor Accredited have any further comments in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Ts claim for its stolen van in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman