DRN-4305807
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) administered his loan.
What happened
To briefly summarise: At the end of May 2022, Mr G agreed a refinance plan with NatWest 
for his personal loan. The refinance plan involved an extension of the loan term and a 
reduction in the monthly payment amount. Mr G asked NatWest to email the refinance 
agreement to him for him to sign and return as he was overseas, which NatWest agreed to 
do. But Mr G didnt receive the refinance agreement by email as hed been promised. And in 
July 2022, when Mr G returned to the UK, he found that NatWest had posted the refinance 
agreement to his UK address.
Mr G signed and returned the refinance agreement to NatWest immediately upon returning 
to the UK. He then received letters from NatWest saying that his loan was in arrears. But Mr 
G didnt feel that this could be the case because hed made  and continued to make  the 
reduced monthly payments to the loan as per the refinance agreement.  Then, in November 
2022, Mr G received a formal demand for full repayment of the outstanding loan balance 
from NatWest, and NatWest later defaulted his loan claiming that it was in a position of 
unpaid arrears. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
NatWest responded to Mr G and explained that he had unfortunately been misinformed that 
the refinance agreement could be sent by post, and that in fact NatWests policy was that the 
refinance agreement had to be sent by post to a UK address. NatWest also explained that 
they had attempted to contact Mr G about this on multiple occasions by a variety of 
channels, and that because Mr G hadnt responded to those communication attempts, the 
refinance agreement offer had lapsed, and the loan had returned to the original contractual 
terms. And, because this meant that the required monthly payment was more than the 
reduced payments Mr G was making, the loan had fallen into arrears.
NatWest also explained that because the loan had fallen into arrears and because Mr G 
hadnt responded to any of the communication attempts that theyd made to him about the 
issue, which had again been sent by multiple channels, that the arrears on the loan had 
grown to the point where collections and recovery action had commenced. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they accepted that NatWest had 
made the initial mistake of incorrectly telling Mr G that the refinance agreement could be 
emailed to him for him to sign and return, they felt that NatWest had made fair and 
reasonable efforts to contact Mr G to correct their position, which Mr G hadnt responded to. 
Because of this, our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld in 
Mr Gs favour. Mr G didnt accept the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr G has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr G for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr G notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr G and NatWest. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr G has explained that he requested that the refinance agreement be emailed to him for 
him to sign and return because he was overseas which meant that he wasnt able to access 
letters posted to his UK address. So, I can therefore appreciate how it would be frustrating 
for Mr G to have discovered, upon his return to the UK, that NatWest had in fact posted the 
refinance agreement for him to sign and return to them to his UK address, rather than 
emailing it to him as theyd promised that they would.
NatWest have explained that their agent made an error in telling Mr G that the refinance 
agreement could be emailed to him. And NatWest have confirmed that their policies 
surrounding refinance agreements include that they can only be posted to UK addresses.
Mr G feels that this provision of incorrect information by NatWest to him has caused his loan 
to be defaulted. This is because Mr G feels that he was operating on the reasonable belief 
that he had negotiated a refinance agreement with NatWest and because he was making 
monthly payments in line with that refinance agreement.
Im not in agreement with Mr Gs position here, and one reason for this is that Mr G 
requested that the refinance agreement be emailed to him so that he could receive it while 
overseas and sign and return it to NatWest. But Mr G didnt receive the refinance agreement 
 because it wasnt emailed to him  which means that Mr G didnt sign and return the 
refinance agreement to NatWest. And I feel that it stands to reason that the refinance 
agreement would only have been confirmed and put in place upon NatWest receiving the 
signed refinance agreement from Mr G, whereby he formally confirmed that he accepted it.
Mr G has said that he believed he had a verbal agreement with NatWest. But it was 
explained to Mr G that he needed to sign and return the refinance agreement, which he 
ultimately didnt do. And I feel that it was unreasonable for Mr G to hold the belief that the 
refinance agreement would be put in place on a verbal agreement only, and without the 
return of the signed refinance agreement which it had been explained to him was required.
Mr G also hasnt been able to evidence that he chased NatWest for a copy of the refinance 
agreement for him to sign and return to them. And he also didnt respond to numerous 
communications that NatWest sent to him by a variety of channels, including by email and 
text message to the email address and mobile phone number that Mr G has confirmed to this service as being his own.
Mr G has explained that his trip overseas was for distressing personal family matters. I can 
only sympathise with Mr G in this regard, and I appreciate that his NatWest loan might have 
seemed relatively unimportant at that time in comparison. But I feel that the absence of his 
receiving a copy of the refinance agreement to sign and return, along with the subsequent 
communications from NatWest and Mr Gs responsibility as the loan account holder to 
monitor the ongoing status of the loan, should reasonably have informed Mr G that the 
refinance agreement hed negotiated hadnt been put in place.
Additionally, when Mr G returned to the UK in July 2022, he received ongoing 
communication from NatWest advising him that his loan was in arrears, which by Mr Gs own 
admission, he ignored. Mr G has explained that this was because he was confident that he 
had made all the payments towards the loan as required by the refinance agreement. But, as 
explained, Mr G had never signed and returned a refinance agreement to NatWest to 
confirm the agreement. And if Mr G was receiving correspondence from NatWest which was 
at odds with his own belief regarding the status of the loan at that time, it seems reasonable 
to expect Mr G to have contacted NatWest to question that correspondence.
So, while NatWest made the first mistake here by incorrectly telling Mr G that they could 
email the refinance agreement to him to sign and return to them, I feel that Mr Gs own 
mistake  believing that the refinance agreement had been put in place without him signing 
and returning a copy of the refinance agreement  was ultimately what led to Mr Gs loan 
being defaulted.
This is because I feel that Mr Gs belief that he could make the reduced monthly payments 
towards the loan wasnt reasonable, because he hadnt taken the action  the signing and 
returning of the refinance agreement  which he knew was necessary to formally accept the 
agreement so that it could be put in place. And also because Mr G didnt contact NatWest 
about the deteriorating position of his loan, despite numerous communications from NatWest 
which Im satisfied should have reasonably given him cause to do so.
All of which means that I dont feel that NatWest should be considered as being responsible 
for Mr Gs loan defaulting as Mr G contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further or alternative action here. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman