DRN-3916050
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Pension Advice Specialists Limited (PAS) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
Mr C is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr C.
What happened
Mr C was receiving financial advice from another business, which Ill call Firm W. Firm W 
introduced Mr C to PAS for advice about potentially transferring his DB scheme pension, as I 
understand Firm W wasnt authorised to advise on DB pension transfers. Mr C had obtained 
a transfer value quotation from his DB scheme which gave the cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of his benefits, which was £442,394.72. Hed also obtained an estimate of the 
benefits he might be due under the DB scheme at retirement. This said that at age 60, the 
scheme estimated Mr C could receive a starting annual pension of £14,781.56 and a 
standard benefit tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum of £25,199.79. Alternatively, he could take 
additional TFC, totalling £78,142.08 and a reduced starting annual pension of £11,721.31. 
Or he could opt to not take any TFC and receive a starting pension of £16,916.04 per 
annum.
PAS completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
It noted that Mr C was 57, retired and in good health. He was divorced and had two children 
who were not financially dependent. He owned his own home, mortgage free, had no other 
debts and he also had savings totalling approximately £105,000. The fact-find said he was 
receiving approximately £375 per month from an annuity hed purchased. This provided a 
level guaranteed income, payable until age 79. He was also in receipt of £1,000 in benefits, 
£550 of which would stop being paid at age 65, with the other £450 payable until he reached 
state pension age. And Mr C expected to receive the full state pension entitlement, of just 
over £8,500 per year. His existing income comfortably exceeded his recorded outgoings.
The DB scheme pension was recorded as being of high importance to Mr Cs retirement 
plans. And he was noted as having a low level of investment experience. Mr Cs desired 
income level in retirement was recorded as £16,000 per year. 
PAS recorded that Mr C was interested in transferring because he wanted flexibility in 
relation to how he could draw his benefits from this pension, greater investment choice and 
because he wanted his children to benefit from the pension in the event of his death. It said 
he was looking to take higher income from the pension in the early years, so that he could 
enjoy this while he was younger. And it also said Mr C wanted to take 25% of the fund as 
TFC immediately, using £80,000 of this to fund a renovation project.
PAS also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium or 6 on a scale of 1 to 10. 
On 17 September 2018, PAS advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits out of its DB 
scheme. PAS said Mr C had plans for a significant renovation but preferred not to use his 
savings to fund this. So, transferring would release money to achieve this objective. It also 
said transferring provided Mr C the option to vary his income  in line with his requirements. 
And it gave him the option to leave a legacy from the pension to his children, which the DB 
scheme didnt. So based on this, and because Mr C had capacity for loss from his savings, 
the annuity that was guaranteed until age 79 and his state pension entitlement, PAS thought 
a transfer was suitable. It said that Firm W had recommend a SIPP provider and investment 
portfolio. And PAS said it was happy this recommendation was suitable based on Mr Cs 
objectives and attitude to risk.
Mr C complained in 2021 to PAS that the advice was unsuitable for him based on his 
circumstances and had caused a loss. 
PAS didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it believed its advice was suitable as it allowed 
Mr C to meet his stated objectives and it felt Mr C made an informed decision to transfer. 
PAS also added that it had no responsibility for the ongoing investment advice and 
questioned whether therefore it was responsible for the losses claimed. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said 
PAS should compensate Mr C for any loss the transfer had led to. He said he thought Mr C 
was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value as a result of the transfer. He 
didnt think he had a need for flexibility in his income and thought that Mr C had other options 
for funding the renovation he had mentioned that didnt involve giving up his guaranteed 
pension benefits. And while these might not have been his preference, he noted PAS role 
was to advise Mr C on what was in his best interests. The Investigator also didnt think 
transferring to obtain alternative death benefits was in Mr Cs best interests  particularly 
bearing in mind that the cash flow modelling PAS had run suggested the pension fund was 
likely to be significantly depleted by the time it was likely to be passed on to his estate. So 
overall he didnt think the advice was suitable.
PAS disagreed, saying that it still considered the transfer was suitable, based on Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PAS' actions here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PAS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
PAS carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, as required by the regulator. This 
included the calculation of the critical yield  how much a new pension would need to grow 
by each year until the normal retirement age of the DB scheme in order to allow Mr C to 
purchase equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme guaranteed at that point. Mr C was 57 
at the time of the advice and the normal retirement age of the DB scheme was 60. The 
critical yield was calculated to be 30.92%. The TVAS also included a transfer value 
comparator, which the report explained provided a comparison between the CETV and the 
estimated cost to Mr C to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was giving up. This said 
the estimated cost to purchase the same benefits ate age 60 was £839,523.60. Which was 
£397,128.88 more than the CETV.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.7% per year for 2 full years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
attitude to risk PAS recorded Mr C as having, high medium, and also the term to retirement. 
There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the critical yield and estimated cost of replicating the existing benefits, I think Mr C was 
likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. PAS has said that Mr C did not intend to take benefits in the same form as the DB scheme, 
as he wanted flexibility. But the regulator required PAS to consider the rate of investment 
growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, I do think 
an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here. 
PAS provided cash flow models, showing how long the pension would last if Mr C took his 
full desired retirement income of £16,000 from the pension, and if he took a lower £14,000. 
But these both indicated that the pension fund would be depleted before Mr Cs average life 
expectancy was reached. And the models were based on a return of 5% per year being 
achieved, which was by no means guaranteed.
PAS says Mr C intended to vary his income and would draw more in the early years of 
retirement, reducing what he needed later. And he would also have had his state pension to 
rely on, and his annuity until age 79. But modelling wasnt carried out taking those scenarios 
into account to show that they were in fact sustainable. And this relied on Mr C potentially 
living on less than he might actually need in the future, as his needs werent known, which 
may not have been feasible. Whereas the income the DB scheme would provide was 
guaranteed for his life and escalated while in payment. 
Taking all of this into account, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think a transfer was 
in Mr Cs interests from a financial viability perspective. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
PAS says Mr C expected to need an income of £16,000 per year in retirement  although he 
thought the amount he needed might reduce in later life. It says he also wanted to take 25% 
TFC in order to cover the £80,000 cost of renovation work he was undertaking. And it says 
he wanted flexibility to be able to vary his income and take a higher income earlier in his 
retirement to enjoy this.
Mr C was already in receipt of income from his fixed term annuity and benefits that exceeded 
his stated income need of £16,000. So, he didnt have a need to take an income from this 
pension at the point of the advice. PAS says this meant Mr C had capacity to accept the risk 
of transferring. But this doesnt, in my view, mean it was in his best interests to do so.
At age 60, he couldve taken an income of £14,781.56 and a standard benefit tax-free cash 
(TFC) lump sum of £25,199.79 from the DB scheme. Alternatively, he couldve taken TFC, 
totalling £78,142.08 and a reduced starting annual pension of £11,721.31. In either case, I 
understand his other income provisions wouldve continued at that stage, meaning his 
combined income wouldve been in excess of his stated need. PAS has said that Mr C 
wanted the option to take more money in the early years of his retirement to enjoy it. But the 
combination of the DB scheme and his other provisions wouldve still meant his income 
significantly exceeded the £16,000 level he expected to need. So, he wouldve had 
additional disposable income to enjoy.
Of the benefits Mr C was receiving £550 was due to stop at age 65, with the remaining £450 
ceasing at age 67. But the amount the DB scheme provided as an income wouldve 
continued to escalate while in payment. So, when those benefit amounts stopped, his 
combined income, including his annuity, wouldve still exceeded his stated need. And from 
age 67 hed have been entitled to a state pension which would have further addressed the 
reduction in income the cessation of benefits brought about. The state pension and the DB scheme wouldve then continued to escalate while in payment, meaning when the fixed term 
annuity ended at age 79, Mr C wouldve still been receiving an income in excess of the 
amount he expected to need.
PAS has said that Mr C expected his income needs to diminish in later life and he felt hed 
be able to rely on his state pension when that happened. But this was unknown. The 
guaranteed pension from the DB scheme meant he wouldnt have needed to rely on doing 
so. And as Ive explained, combined with his other provisions, wouldve given him an income 
in excess of what he expected to need in the early years of his retirement, to enjoy.
On the subject of wanting to take TFC to fund a renovation, Mr C had savings significantly in 
excess of the amount he said he required. PAS says Mr C preferred to keep his savings 
intact. But PAS wasnt there just to put in place what Mr C mightve thought he wanted. It 
needed to recommend what was in his best interests, even if that went against what Mr C 
thought he might like. Here, he didnt need to give up his guaranteed pension in order to 
fund the renovation. And Mr C could take TFC from the DB scheme at age 60, which was 
only marginally less than the estimated cost of the works. So, if he wasnt comfortable using 
his savings, he couldve delayed the renovations and used the TFC from the scheme at age 
60, as I havent seen anything to suggest the renovations were urgent. Or he couldve 
carried out the renovations using his savings, reassured by the fact he could take TFC from 
the DB scheme in under three years to replenish his savings if this was a genuine concern. 
And neither of these options required him to give up his guaranteed benefits and expose his 
pension fund, which formed the major part of his retirement provisions, to additional risk.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr C needed to transfer his pension to 
achieve his income goals or to complete the renovations he intended to.
PAS has said that Mr C preferred and wanted flexibility. But again, its role was to advise 
Mr C on what was in his best interests, even if that didnt align with his initial thinking. For the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think he needed flexibility in order to meet his goals. So, I dont 
think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits, 
particularly considering he was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value by doing so.
Death benefits
PAS says one of Mr Cs main aims was that his children would benefit from the pension in 
the event of his death. Which they wouldnt have through the DB scheme.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. 
I dont doubt that the CETV might have seemed attractive as a potential lump sum. Indeed, I 
can see PAS asked a question during the fact find about how Mr C felt about the CETV, to 
which he said he thought it was attractive. But the sum the pension would provide as a death 
benefit following a transfer was likely to be very different to the CETV. It was dependent on 
both investment performance, which wasnt guaranteed and subject to risk, and wouldve 
also been reduced by any income Mr C drew in his lifetime. Mr C was recorded as being in 
good health. And PAS advice seems to be based on him drawing larger sums from the 
pension in the early years of his retirement  at a level that its own cash flow modelling 
suggested would be unsustainable and meant the fund wouldve been entirely depleted prior to him reaching the age of his average life expectancy. So, on balance, it appears likely the 
fund wouldve been significantly depleted by the time it was passed on to any dependents 
and may not therefore have provided the legacy that Mr C anticipated.
Furthermore, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, life insurance 
couldve been explored. The suitability report noted that whole of life insurance should be 
considered as an alternative. But beyond that statement, I cant see that it actually was.  
In any event, PAS should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a SIPP over his security in retirement. And overall, I dont think the 
different death benefits available justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits Mr C 
incurred by transferring. And I dont think that insurance was properly explored as an 
alternative.
Suitability of investments
PAS said in the suitability report that, although Firm W, had recommended the SIPP provider 
and portfolio to Mr C, it was happy those recommendations were suitable for Mr C. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable, 
it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This 
is because Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But again, PAS role 
wasnt to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. He didnt need flexibility and his income and spending 
objectives couldve been met without having to give up his guaranteed benefits. He also 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme based on the potential for higher 
death benefits as this wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme 
and in any event the death benefits were likely to be significantly different that Mr C mayve 
thought based on the CETV.
So, I think PAS shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've looked to transfer anyway, against 
PAS advice.
Ive considered this carefully. I accept that on being put in contact with PAS, Mr C appears to 
have already been thinking about transferring and how he might use his pension differently. I 
cant though rule out that this was on the basis of earlier conversations with Firm W. PAS 
has also said that Mr C was made aware of the risks involved. And the suitability report does 
talk about risks. But highlighting risks is not a substitute for suitable advice. And ultimately, 
while Mr C was provided with a lot of information by PAS, it advised him to transfer out, and I 
think Mr C relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against PAS advice. Mr C was an inexperienced investor. And although PAS believed he had a 
high medium attitude to risk, this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Cs retirement 
provision. So, if PAS had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why transferring wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that the potential appeal of alternative death benefits or flexibility to Mr C 
was so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he was paying for and had been recommended to him, didnt think it was 
suitable for him or in his best interests. And if PAS had explained that Mr C could meet his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think PAS should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
PAS has said that it didnt provide ongoing advice about the investment and that the SIPP 
was recommended by Firm W. So, I have considered whether I should apportion only part of 
the responsibility for compensating the loss to PAS. In the circumstances, though, I think it 
fair to make an award for the whole loss against PAS.
PAS should not have recommended Mr C transfer out of his DB scheme. And it was only as 
a result of PAS involvement that Mr C transferred the funds held in his DB scheme to the 
SIPP, as Firm W did not have the relevant permissions to provide this advice. PAS role was 
pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first. 
If that hadnt happened, Mr C couldnt have invested as he did. And PAS did ultimately say it 
thought those investments were suitable. So, in my view, the entirety of Mr Cs loss stems 
from PAS unsuitable advice to transfer away from his DB scheme.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for PAS unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. Mr C didnt 
make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for 
the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
PAS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C had retired at the time of the advice. But had he been suitably advised not 
to transfer I think hed have waited and taken his pension benefits from the DB scheme at 
the normal scheme retirement age of 60 as he did not need to access benefits to meet his 
needs at that time. So, this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
PAS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date PAS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PAS to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of PAS. This 
is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the 
open market) as their value cant be determined, which I understand to be the case here in 
respect of some of the investments that were held within the SIPP.To calculate the compensation, PAS should agree an amount with the SIPP provider, or its 
representative, as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, 
and take ownership of the illiquid investment. If PAS is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything PAS has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, PAS may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. 
PAS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If PAS asks Mr C to provide 
an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
I understand the SIPP may now only exist because of the illiquid investment. In order for the 
SIPP to be closed (should Mr C wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees 
to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how 
this might be achieved by PAS taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr C can 
discuss with the SIPP provider, or its representatives, directly. While Im aware that the SIPP 
provider appears to be in the process of being wound up, and the process of closing the 
SIPP may already be in motion, I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that PAS pay Mr C an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect PAS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pension Advice 
Specialists Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Pension Advice Specialists Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pension 
Advice Specialists Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Pension Advice Specialists Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pension Advice 
Specialists Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman