DRN-3825141
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out the PPI in 1995 at the same time as arranging the mortgage.
In 2018 Mr W used the services of a claims management company (CMC) to make an 
enquiry to HSBC about whether or not there had been any PPI policies in his name. At that 
time HSBC said that it couldnt find any policies
In June 2021 HSBC wrote to Mr M explaining that it had made an error in not previously 
contacting the policy administrators to check for PPI. Having now done so, it had identified 
the mortgage PPI taken out in 1995. It then provided more time for Mr M to make a 
complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any paperwork from the time of the sale, which is not surprising given 
how long ago it took place.
Mr M says that the delay caused by HSBC originally saying he didnt have PPI has 
prejudiced him as it meant he didnt keep any papers relating to the policy which would 
have helped his case. But if he had papers relating to PPI, I think its likely that he would 
have provided them to HSBC at the time to challenge its response that it couldnt find a 
policy. So Im not persuaded that Mr M is worse off as the result of the delay.
Mr M says the PPI was presented as a package with the mortgage.
Mr M originally said that the PPI was taken out over the phone. He has now recalled, with 
the aid of his wife, that it was taken out in branch during the mortgage interview.
From what we know of HSBCs sales process at that time, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude 
that something different happened in this case.
Whilst I have no doubt that Mr M has provided his genuine recollection of events, the sale 
was in 1995 and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory had faded. And it seems clear that 
he has no particularly strong memory of the sale. So, overall, Im not persuaded that I can 
rely on Mr Ms recollections to conclude that he wasnt given a choice about buying the 
policy. On balance, I find it more likely than not that he decided to buy it, knowing he didnt 
have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
This was an advised sale, meaning that HSBC needed to ensure that the policy met Mr Ms 
needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for 
him.
Mr M would have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full pay for. 
Mr M originally told us that he had some limited savings. His wife has recently reminded 
him that they had £25,000 in savings, although I dont know if this relates to the time of the 
sale or three years later when he was made redundant. Nevertheless, having the PPI 
meant they could have retained their savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what 
would have been a difficult time. 
Mr M says he had a claim for unemployment declined in 1998 and so thinks there might 
have been something in the policy terms that made it unsuitable for him. Unfortunately, no 
information is available about the claim. But, based on the available evidence, Mr M was 
not caught by any of the limitations relating to unemployment claims. For example, it can 
sometimes be harder for a self-employed person to make a successful unemployment 
claim, but Mr M was not self-employed. So Im not persuaded there was anything about Mr 
Ms circumstances at the time of the sale that made the policy unsuitable.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide Mr M with as much information as it should have about 
the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. So Mr M is no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may 
have done wrong, so theres nothing that HSBC needs to do to put things right. It follows that 
I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman