DRN-1226537
The complaint
Mr O complains that Upfront Car Holdings Limited (Upfront) charged him £299 when he 
terminated his car lease with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion and for the following reasons:
Mr O entered into a lease agreement with Upfront in March 2019. Term 11 c) of the 
agreement explained that the vehicle return fee is £299 if the vehicle is returned 
within one calendar year. As the car was returned within a year the vehicle return 
fee was therefore payable.
On 11 March 2019, before Mr O signed the contract, Upfront reminded Mr O of the 
early return fee. In a short email they explained that the early return fee is £299. I 
dont think that was ambiguous and I think Mr O should therefore have been aware of 
his obligation.
Ive not seen that it was ever agreed that these terms would be amended so I think 
Upfront have been fair when deducting the vehicle return fee from Mr Os deposit. 
The email from Upfront that was sent on 13 March simply confirmed the minimum 
contract length of eight weeks and the need for four weeks notice. It didnt remove 
the contractual obligation for Mr O to pay a £299 early return fee; that was always 
payable if the car was returned in the first year.
I can see that Mr O had some problems with the car and that the AA attended the 
vehicle. He didnt complain to Upfront about any quality issues with the car and they 
havent therefore been allowed to provide their comments. So, if Mr O does have 
concerns about the quality of the vehicle that was supplied he will, in the first 
instance, need to refer that complaint to Upfront.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman