DRN-3598851
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
Background
Miss D bought solar panels for her home in August 2020. The purchase was funded by an 
11-year loan from Ikano (one year without payments, and then ten years of monthly loan 
repayments). Ikano is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under the 
relevant legislation. Miss D says the installer misled her into believing that the panels would 
be self-funding, which they werent, and that he did not tell her that interest would be 
charged on the loan. She also says she had several serious health conditions at the time of 
the sale, which had caused her to have chronic fatigue, anxiety and depression.
Ikano did not agree that the panels had been sold on the basis that they would be self-
funding. It said it had not known about her poor health at the time it executed the loan 
agreement.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator decided to uphold this complaint on the 
ground that the installer had failed to make it clear to Miss D that the panels would not be 
self-funding.
Ikano did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold it, but for different reasons to those given by my 
colleague.
Interest
The loan agreement clearly sets out that there would be interest on the loan, but I note that 
Miss D signed this agreement several days after she signed the contract. So it is possible 
that she did not see the agreement at the time she agreed to buy the solar panels and take 
out the loan. For that reason, although there was a 14-day cooling-off period in which she 
could have withdrawn from the loan agreement, I have decided not to rely on this document 
for the purpose of deciding whether she was told about the interest.
However, there is also another document, titled Validation Sheet. This was signed by 
Miss D on the same day as the contract, 4 August 2020. It is only two pages long and on the 
first page it sets out the key details of the loan, including the interest, in a section titled Loan 
Details.
So I am satisfied that Miss D was told there would be interest payable on the loan.
Misrepresentation
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not think there is enough evidence to 
show that the panels were misrepresented by the salesman. That is because the sales 
documentation set out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the 
benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
As I have set out above, the Validation Sheet showed how much Miss D would have to pay 
each month: £106.55. That clearly comes to more than £1,200 a year.
There is a one-page document, titled Performance Estimation. This has also been signed 
by Miss D. Immediately above her signature is a section headed Estimated Year 1 Benefit. 
This states that the estimated benefit from the panels in the first year will fall in the range 
from £249.71 up to £399.54 at most. The higher figure is clearly only one third of the annual 
loan payments.
In both documents, I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not buried in some fine 
print. As Ive said, both documents were signed by Miss D, and so I think that the installers 
salesman did enough to bring this information to her attention.
Miss D told me that the salesman told her that the estimated year 1 benefit was the profit 
she would make from the solar panels after making the loan payments and paying her 
electricity bills. So she was expecting the panels to make over £2,000 a month, gross. But 
there is nothing in that document (or any other) to support that.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Miss D about the benefits 
and cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term 
of the loan.
(In coming to that conclusion, I have departed from our services usual stance of saying that 
the cost and benefit of the solar panels should both appear in the same document. That is 
because these two documents were both signed by Miss D on the same occasion, and have 
a total of only three pages between them.)
Vulnerability
At my request, Ikano asked the installer for their policy on dealing with vulnerable 
consumers, and whether their salesman made any note about whether Miss D disclosed any 
of her health conditions at the time, or whether he identified any himself. Ikano received no 
response, but it did provide me with a copy of the installers policy from 2016. That may have 
been superseded by a more recent version, but I think it is unlikely to have changed much.
The installers policy says (among other things) that if a customer is mentally or physically 
infirm then the presence and assistance of a trusted friend or relative should be sought. If 
the customer is alone, then the visit should be rearranged for a time when such a person can 
be present. That did not happen.
There are two possible reasons why that was not done. One is that Miss D did not mention 
her health problems and the salesman reasonably did not notice them, in which case he 
could not be faulted for not realising that this policy applied. But I dont think it is likely that 
the salesman did not notice at least some of Miss Ds health issues. She was in a wheelchair 
at the time, and had been suffering from a host of illnesses. I think her vulnerability ought to 
have been readily apparent to him, and should at the very least have provoked some 
questions by the salesman to ascertain the degree of her health issues. Her answers, if not 
first impressions, ought to have put the salesman on notice that his employers vulnerability 
policy applied and should be followed. So on balance, I think that the installer failed to follow 
its policy on vulnerable customers.
That is not something which Ikano would be liable for under section 75. But section 56 is 
broader in scope, and I think that section does assist Miss D here. Arguably, so does section 
140A. If she had been assisted by a friend or relative, then that person might have advised 
against buying the panels and entering into the loan agreement. And if not, then that person 
would still have been able to corroborate Miss Ds recollection of what was said at the sales 
meeting.
For that reason, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. Rather than require Ikano to 
unwind the whole agreement, I think instead it would be fair to tell it to pay Miss D enough 
compensation to make the panels self-funding after all, as if a misrepresentation had been 
made.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss D from the solar panels 
over the 11 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Miss D is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Ikano needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss D in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 11 year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss Ds monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Miss D have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Miss D and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Miss D and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss D accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Miss D has settled the loan, Ikano should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Miss D has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and then Ikano must: 
1. Refund the extra Miss D paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss D receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Miss D paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss D receives her refund.
5. Pay Miss D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss D first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano must pay 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ikano Bank AB (publ) to put things right in 
the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman