DRN-4151292
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as F, has complained about the refusal of a business 
interruption claim under its Caterers business insurance policy with certain underwriters at 
Society of Lloyd's. Mr M, as director of F, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
F operates as a pub. In July 2020, it made a claim under its policy after it closed between 
March and July 2020, as a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. F says it is entitled to the maximum indemnity under the policy of 
£25,000. 
The underwriters refused the claim, as they said although the policy covers closure of a 
business due to infectious diseases, the closure has to have been as a direct result of an 
outbreak of the disease at the premises, and not as a result of general closure required by 
the Government. The underwriters also considered cover under the section of cover for  
denial of access and concluded the claim was not covered under this section either. 
Fs representative is unhappy about this. After the complaint was brought to us he provided 
evidence that he said proved there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at the premise before the 
lockdown was announced and that they were therefore part of the cause of the restrictions 
imposed by the Government. 
We sent this additional evidence to the underwriters. The underwriter said while there was 
evidence of ill health, there was not enough evidence to say the employees in question were 
infected with Covid-19. The underwriters said that the symptoms described could be of any 
illness and without any other evidence they dont prove the employees in question had 
Covid-19. There is reference to Employee 1 undergoing a Covid-19 test on 13 March 2020, 
at least two weeks after they were last at the premises but theyve not been told the test 
result. The underwriters also said that the policy requires an outbreak of the disease, which 
would require more than one occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. One employee who 
had been ill had not been at the premises since February 2020 and there was no evidence 
they had been at the premises with Covid-19. A second employee had been at the premises 
shortly before the lockdown was announced but even if she had Covid-19  which it does not 
accept - this would be just one occurrence and therefore not enough to trigger cover under 
the policy. The underwriters said the insured has not supplied evidence of a single 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises, much less an outbreak.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied the underwriters were entitled to refuse the claim. He did not 
think the evidence provided was enough to establish that there had been an outbreak of 
Covid-19 at the premises. 
F does not accept the Investigators assessment. Mr M sent some further evidence to 
support that there were occurrences of Covid-19 at the premises and other evidence to 
support the claim. This was provided to the underwriters but they have not made any further 
comment. The Investigator didnt think the new evidence changed the outcome. 
Mr M feels the case has not been considered properly; he has provided all the evidence and 
information requested to then be told its insufficient. 
F says that the High Court judgment in the FCA test case said that occurrences of Covid-19 
within the vicinity of an insured premises cannot be separated from occurrences elsewhere 
and the disease in the UK is one indivisible cause. 
He has spoken to Centre for Disease Control and Public Health England have agreed that 
the sequence of transmission between its employees would demonstrate there was an 
outbreak at the premises. But they also confirm that it is not always necessary for there to be   
to be multiple occurrences of a disease for it to be considered to be an outbreak, as other 
factors such as danger to the public and risk of transmission are also considered. Mr M 
doesnt agree that there need to be more than one case of Covid-19 at the premises for 
there to be cover under the policy but in any case, several employees were unwell with 
Covid-19 symptoms and all having been present at the premises. This can lead to only one 
conclusion, which is that there was more than one case of Covid-19 at the premises.
Mr M also says that given the worry about them all having had Covid-19 at the premises, F 
asked for legal advice as to whether it should close. Shortly afterwards they were mandated 
to close by the Government. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such an 
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things 
which might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover. 
I have considered Fs policy carefully. It includes cover for losses arising from the 
interruption of business as a result of certain specified events most of which require damage 
to the premises, which is not the case here. There is an extension to the core cover which  
both parties agreed was relevant to Fs claim for closure due to infectious disease. 
Closure due to infectious diseases
There is also an extension of cover for closure of the business as a result of an outbreak of 
an infectious disease. The policy says: 
Cover under this section is extended to include loss of net takings directly as a result 
of 
2. Closure  of the premises by a competent authority due to: 
(a) an outbreak of any notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Fs claim, the interruption to Fs business would need to be as a result of an outbreak of 
Covid-19 at the premises. 
The Investigator referred to whether it was a notifiable disease before 5 March 2020 but I 
dont think that is relevant here as the term above refers to an outbreak of notifiable disease 
or a contagious disease. Even if it was not a notifiable disease at the time of any outbreak, it 
was a contagious disease. 
The word outbreak isnt defined in the policy. Some dictionary definitions give the meaning 
of outbreak as something (generally unwelcome, such as a war) suddenly occurring. In the 
case of war, for example, this would require only one war. The World Health Organisations 
website says that an outbreak is: 
an occurrence of cases of a disease in excess of what would normally be 
expected in a defined community, geographical area or season.
Mr M has provided a copy of the Health Protection Surveillance Centre definition of an 
outbreak which says: 
An outbreak of infection or foodborne illness may be defined as two or more linked
cases of the same illness or the situation where the observed number of cases 
exceeds the expected number, or a single case of disease caused by
a significant pathogen (e.g. diphtheria or viral haemorrhagic fever). 
He has also referred to information from NHS England which says: An outbreak is an 
incident where two or more persons have the same disease or similar symptoms and are 
linked in time, place and/or person association. An outbreak may also be defined as a 
situation when the observed number of cases unaccountably exceeds the expected number 
at any given time. 
Although there is reference to a single case of a disease caused by a significant pathogen 
being considered an outbreak, there is no evidence, as far as I am aware, that any authority 
determined that a single case of Covid-19 would be considered to be an outbreak.
The courts have provided some assistance in this question however. In the FCA business 
interruption test case, the Supreme Court didnt specifically consider how many cases would 
be needed for an outbreak. However, at paragraph 69 the court said:
Nor for that matter could an outbreak of disease be regarded as one occurrence, 
unless the individual cases of disease described as an outbreak have a sufficient 
degree of unity in relation to time, locality and cause.
Also, in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Co Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), the 
Judge referred to an outbreak as plural.
Given everything set out above, I think its likely that a court would find that there needs to 
be more than one occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises in order for it to be an outbreak. I 
dont think the information Mr M has provided is persuasive that there would only need to be 
one occurrence of Covid-19 to be considered to be an outbreak. 
Ive also considered that any case of Covid-19 at Fs premises would be part of the wider 
general outbreak of Covid-19. But I think its clear in Fs policy that its the occurrence of the 
outbreak itself that needs to be at Fs premises, rather than an occurrence of the disease.Ive therefore considered whether F has shown there was more likely than not, more than 
one occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises.
As the Investigator has already said, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of 
the pandemic, and the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they 
were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a 
claimant will be able to produce a positive test result from that period and we would not 
consider it reasonable to require a positive test result.
We therefore take a more pragmatic approach, and consider whether other evidence can be 
provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was an outbreak of Covid-
19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, it is for the 
policyholder to establish their claim under the policy.
Ive summarised below the evidence provided by F to support the claim that there was an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises: 
Employee 1
An employee was ill in early February 2020 returning to work on 19 February 2020. He says 
he was aching, tired and weak. Mr M believes this was the first occurrence and then 
transmitted the disease to other employees, so this sequence amounts to an outbreak. 
Employee 2 
A part-time employee was off sick from late February 2020 with Covid-19 symptoms, 
including swollen glands and lethargy. Mr M says she last worked on 24 and 25 February 
2020. In a statement from Employee 2 dated April 2023, she says she became unwell on 29 
February 2020. Her next shift was on 2 March 2020 and she called in sick. She said that at 
first she thought she had a cold but as the illness progressed her symptoms got worse: head 
pounding, sore throat, swollen glands and a cough. As she has respiratory conditions, she 
spoke to her consultant who thought it best to call an ambulance. The paramedics said it 
was likely she had Covid-19 but could not do a test as they were only available to NHS staff 
at the time. 
Mr M says that a medical professional believed the symptoms were Covid-19 and sufficient 
for immediate medical attention.
Employee 3 (related to employee 1) called F on 17 March 2020 to say she was ill with a sore 
throat so couldnt go to work that day. She had been at work the previous day. In a 
statement from April 2023, she said her illness developed and on 19 March 2020 she had 
aching joints and tiredness, symptoms of Covid-19 likely caught from Employee 1. 
There are also copies of phone messages dated July 2020 sating that she couldnt stay with 
her relative Employee 1 due to concerns about Covid-19. Mr M says this proves that 
Employee 2 and 3 lived together previously, which means the transmission of Covid-19 
between them in March 2020 was highly likely. 
Employee 4 who was unwell with Covid-19 symptoms in the first week of March 2020, while 
at the premises.  A screen shot of a phone message referring to this employee being unwell 
has been provided. It is dated 2 March 2020 and is a message between F and Employee 2 
and refers to Employee 4 also being unwell and says she has a cold too. 
This employee has also provided a statement in April 2023, which says she started to feel 
unwell on 1 March 2020 with flu like symptoms, including a fever, cough and sore throat. 
She called in sick the next day. The 3 March 2020 was her day off anyway and she was well 
enough to return to work on 4 March 2020, though she was still had flu-like symptoms. Employee 5 - Mr M was also unwell in the first week of March 2020, while at the premises. 
His illness is corroborated in the same phone message on 2 March 2020 between his 
partner and Employee 2, which said he reckons he has sore throat and is really cold too.
Mr M has provided a list of recognised Covid-19 symptoms, which includes all the symptoms 
the employees mentioned, other than swollen glands. He also says that five out of seven 
employees shared symptoms of the same disease, which was an unprecedented amount of 
illness. He says he spoke to Public Health England and it agreed that the sequence of 
events and infection at the premises demonstrates there was an outbreak at the premise. 
F also says that it is situated in a busy town near a busy airport, where Covid-19 was likely 
to be prevalent. F has also provided information stating that reported cases of flu were falling 
at the time. F says this means it is more likely that its employees were ill with the more 
dominant Covid-19 virus than flu or any other common illness.  
It is possible that Covid-19 was in the vicinity of the premises. There were policies which 
would cover the closure of a business due to a notifiable disease in the vicinity of the 
business premises but the terms in this policy specifically require there to be an outbreak of 
the disease at the premises. 
I have considered all the evidence F has provided. The burden of proof is on F to show that 
it has suffered a loss which the policy covers. 
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter in hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful. But it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time. 
With regard to Employee 1, he gave no details of any symptoms in the phone messages I 
have seen. Employee 2 complained mainly of swollen glands, not being able to sleep . I 
understand she had underlying respiratory issues but did not mention a cough or headache 
in any of the contemporaneous evidence. She did in her statement provided around three 
years later. 
I note that Employee 2 spoke to her consultant but one of the messages between her and F  
refers to her having a pre-op appointment coming up. So it is unclear whether the consultant 
sent the ambulance to check she was well enough for that or out of immediate concern 
about her condition. The messages do not suggest Employee 2 was concerned that she had 
Covid-19 (there is only one reference to Covid-19 when she says her relative suggested that 
might be what she had) or that she thought she needed an ambulance. She says no test 
was carried out, although her message to F after the ambulance had attended said they are 
organising the swab test thing for me. There is no evidence that she was given any 
treatment or any follow-up. I have also not seen any test result, ambulance report or 
evidence from the consultant that would support that Employee 2s symptoms were from 
Covid-19 infection. 
I am not persuaded that the evidence about Employee 2 means she was more likely than not 
infected with Covid-19. Swollen glands were not one of the common symptoms of Covid-19 
The contemporaneous evidence is that she had symptoms of another illness. The statement 
three years later refers to headache and cough, which are the more common symptoms of 
Covid-19 but these werent mentioned at the time, as far as I can see. In addition to this, Employee 2 says she started to feel unwell on 29 February 2020 which 
was around four or five days after she was last at the premises. While it is possible that 
someone could be infected with Covid-19 four or five days before symptoms start, I think this 
means that even if Employee 2 did have Covid-19, this was not part of an outbreak at the 
premises. I will explain why. I think for a case to count towards an outbreak of a disease it 
would need to have occurred at the premises. The Supreme Court in the test case said that 
an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an individual becomes diagnosable with the 
disease. The guidance from the World Health Organisation, amongst others, is that some 
people can become diagnosable one to three days before experiencing symptoms of Covid-
19. 
As the evidence from F, is that it was four or around five days at least between Employee 2s 
last visit to Fs premises and the development of symptoms, I dont think that even if 
Employee 2 did have Covid-19, she would have been diagnosable when at the premises. 
Even if the incubation period was longer and Employee 2 caught Covid-19 at the premises, 
or was infected with it when last at the premises, I dont think this means she would have 
been diagnosable any sooner. I have to reach a decision based on what I think is most likely. 
And I think its more likely than not that, on the basis of when her symptoms started, 
Employee 2 was not diagnosable when she was last at Fs premises. So, even if she did 
have Covid-19, I dont think this would count as part of an outbreak of disease at the 
premises. 
The contemporaneous evidence from Mr M and Employee 3 and 4 all refer to them having 
colds, sore throat and chills. While these symptoms are listed as possible symptoms of 
Covid-19 they are also common to many other illnesses. Again, none of them mention 
having a cough or any of the other more common symptoms of Covid-19 in the 
contemporaneous evidence. 
Most people at the time did not have Covid-19. While Mr M has provided evidence 
suggesting that reported cases of flu were going down, I do not agree that this means that 
Fs employees must therefore have been suffering from Covid-19. The symptoms described 
by each of them in March 2020 could relate to several different common illnesses.  
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think the extension provides cover in the
circumstances of Fs claim and the underwriters were entitled to turn down the claim under 
this section of cover as there is not enough evidence of there having been an outbreak of 
Covid-19 at Fs premises. I do not consider that any other part of the policy would provide 
cover for the claim either. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. But, 
having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require the underwriters 
to pay Fs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthyOmbudsman