DRN-2937475
The complaint
Miss G complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Gs complaint. Mr Lender did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my first provisional decision on 22 June 2021 explaining the reasons why I was not 
intending to uphold Miss Gs complaint based on the information that I had available to me at 
the time. 
In response to the first provisional decision, Miss G provided further comments and 
information about her circumstances for my consideration. I then issued a second provisional 
decision partially upholding the complaint.
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss G took seven loans between July 2016 and October 2017. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below:
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of Loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £130 05/07/2016 22/07/2016
2 £260 22/07/2016 24/10/2016
3 £400 24/10/2016 10/11/2016
4 £200 18/12/2016 26/01/2017
5 £400 01/03/2017 10/03/2017
6 £1,500 09/08/2017 13/09/2017
7 £300 13/10/2017 02/10/2018
One of our adjudicators initially looked into Miss Gs complaint. She didnt think it was wrong
for Mr Lender to have granted loans 1 to 3, so she didnt ask Mr Lender to do anymore in
connection with these loans. She also didnt make a finding about loans 4 or 5 as Mr Lender
has already offered to refund all the interest paid together with 8% interest and for the loans
to be removed from Miss Gs credit file and Mr Lender confirmed this offer was still available.
But the adjudicator also thought that loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been lent. She felt the
pattern of lending indicated Miss G had become persistently reliant on the loans. The
adjudicator said that Mr Lender should make the same offer for loans 6 and 7 as it has for
loans 4 and 5.
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2021. In this provisional decision, I explained
the reasons why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint about loans 6 and 7 based on the
information that I had to hand at the time.
Mr Lender agreed with my provisional decision.
Whilst I thought that Mr Lender should have been verifying the information Miss G gave
about her circumstances when she applied for these loans, Miss G hadnt provided copies of
her bank statements or credit file. So, I was unable to conclude that the loans were
unaffordable or unsustainable for her. I said that if Miss G was able to provide further
information, Id reconsider my decision.
Miss G provided further comments for me to consider along with her bank statements and
credit file. Summarising Miss Gs comments, she has said the following:
The bank statements show that her borrowing was out of control
Had Mr Lender carried out extra checks and requested copies of bank statements
then it wouldve seen Miss G was reliant on short term lending
Miss G used this lending to pay off other loans
In the light of this new information, Im minded to reach a different outcome in this case then
was reached in the provisional decision. I now intend to uphold the complaint, in part. Ive
explained why below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Miss G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the new arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Loans 1-5
It appears that both parties have accepted the outcome loans 1-3, so I no longer think there
is an outstanding dispute about these loans. And the offer for loans 4 and 5 still stands, so I
dont intend to revisit those loans either.
This provisional decision will only be focussing on loans 6 and 7 in light of the new
information provided by Miss G.
Loans 6 and 7
When I issued my provisional decision on 22 June 2021, I explained the reasons why I
thought Mr Lenders checks ought to have gone further for these loans. Ive included an
extract of my provisional decision which explains the reasons for this.
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 6 Miss G had taken six loans in around
13 months. There were though also breaks between lending as Mr Lender has
highlighted for example there was also a break of just over a month between loans 3
and 4 as well as between loans 4 and 5. And between loans 5 and 6 the break was
longer, around five months.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was enough to suggest Miss G had become
reliant on the loans. I appreciate shed applied for two other loans in the five month
gap - which Mr Lender declined, one in May 2017 and the other in June 2017. But
there were other breaks between loans and the actual time Miss G had been
indebted by loan 6 wasnt, of itself, particularly concerning. There was also a
considerable drop in the level of lending when loan 7 was granted and then Miss G
stopped borrowing.
I disagree though with Mr Lender that the break between loans 5 and 6 was long
enough to consider loan 6 as the start of a new lending relationship. The earlier
break between loans wasnt significant and between loans 5 and 6, Miss G had
applied for two further loans.
These were declined but the fact that Miss G was applying for further lending, in myview doesnt suggest there was a clear and distinct break in the lending relationship.
These further loan applications could also indicate Miss Gs underlying financial
situation may not have been improving. After all, shed already taken five loans with
Mr Lender and around two months after the second declined application, Miss G
applied for a significantly higher loan of £1,500. The credit check results completed
by Mr Lender also indicated she was making a payment to another short-term lender
at the time she applied. And from what I can see theyd been previous short-term
loan activity elsewhere suggesting possible financial difficulties.
Taken together with the fact that loan 6 was the largest capital loan with the highest
repayment to date and with repayments due over 12 months, potentially extending
Miss Gs indebtedness considerably, I think further checks ought to have been
completed before further lending was granted.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what Miss G
declared. Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Gs actual
financial position to ensure loans 6 and 7 were affordable and able to be repaid
sustainably. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of
outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or her own credit report. This mightve
helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Mr Lender mightve needed to consider about Miss Gs general
financial position.
Mr Lender did not provide any additional comments explaining why it disagreed with my
comments for loans 6 and 7. And I have seen no additional information which changes my
mind with regards to the checks Mr Lender ought to have completed when it lent these
loans. At this stage in the lending relationship, I think Mr Lender ought to have asked for
evidence of Miss Gs outgoings in order to establish if the lender was still affordable and
sustainable for her.
Following my provisional decision, Miss G provided copies of her bank statements showing
what her circumstances were at the time of these loans. Having reviewed this information, I
think Miss G was not in a position to sustain her repayments for loans 6 and 7.
At the time Miss G applied for loan 6, I can see she had at least seven short term loans
outstanding with other lenders. She made repayments to these lenders totalling £1,491
which was more than her monthly income. And once she had made her repayments to these
lenders, it seems she went on to apply for further lending suggesting she wasnt in a position
to sustain or afford her repayments without borrowing again.
It appears that Miss Gs circumstances didnt significantly improve by the time she applied
for her seventh loan with Mr Lender. I can see she was still borrowing from other lenders and
had at least four loans outstanding at the time of her loan application.
So, overall if Mr Lender had completed proportionate checks at the time, Miss G applied for
loans 6 and 7, I think it would have seen that the lending had become unaffordable as well
as unsustainable for Miss G.
So, having considered everything Im intending to uphold Miss Gs complaint as I think Mr
Lender were wrong to approve loans 6 and 7 for these reasons.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss let me know she accepted the findings of the provisional decision and neither party had 
any further information or comments that they wanted me to consider. 
So, I see no reasons to depart from the findings I reached in the second provisional decision. 
I still think proportionate checks wouldve likely shown Mr Lender that Miss G couldnt afford 
to take on loans 6 and 7 and Mr Lender agreed to honour the offer it made in relation to 
loans 4 and 5. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loan 6 onwards as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Miss G may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Miss G may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss G would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Mr Lender were wrong to approve loans 6 and 7. So, on top of what Mr Lender has
already agreed to do for loans 4 and 5 it should also put things right as outlined below:
carry out its offer it agreed to make for loans 4 and 5 
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 6 and 7.
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payments to the date of
settlement*;
Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 6 and 7
from Miss Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Gs 
complaint in part.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right for Miss G as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman