DRN-3888073
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2017.
At the time, Mr W was a deferred member of the scheme, having been employed between 
1978 and March 2016 when he was made redundant. He then became self-employed.
Prism EBC Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Prism.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so contacted an 
independent financial adviser (IFA) which in turn referred Mr W to Prism which is responsible 
for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his circumstances and 
objectives were broadly as follows:
Mr W was 55 years old, married and with no financially dependent children. He was a 
self-employed property manager and in good health.
Including his main residence, Mr W owned five residential properties with a total 
value of around £570,000. Two were owned jointly with Mrs W and three in his sole 
name. The total in mortgages outstanding was £352,000. 
Mr and Mrs W had liabilities of around £21,500 in other unsecured borrowing 
comprising credit card balances and a loan.
Mr W was earning around £18,000 (before deduction of costs) per year from 
managing his property rentals business. Ive noted Mrs W had an income of £16,900 
(net) per year and a pension of £125 per month (net). At the time of the advice 
Mr and Mrs W were able to cover all their monthly expenditure with their income. 
However, Mr W had been recently supplementing his income needs by using some 
redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs W still had around £30,000 in cash savings and £4,000 
in equity-based investments. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£442,472 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. However, Mr W said he 
intended accessing his pension savings more or less straightaway at around the age 
of 56. He intended to remain self-employed in his property rentals business.
Prism set out its advice in a suitability report on 27 November 2017. It advised Mr W to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a SIPP, using a discretionary fund manager 
to manage the investments. Prism said this would allow Mr W to achieve his objectives.
Mr W accepted this advice and so transferred from the BSPS to a SIPP. In 2021 Mr W 
complained to Prism about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the BSPS. In response, Prism said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr W had at the time. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld  he thought Mr W could have met all of his 
retirement objectives by moving to the scheme with the PPF  but Prism still didnt agree. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it came to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this in November 2022 in which I said I was 
minded to uphold the complaint. However, I gave the parties time to respond with any further 
information and evidence they wanted me to consider. 
Having now received those responses, Im making a final decision. However, Ive copied the 
PD (in full) and included this as an appendix at the foot of this decision. It should be read in 
conjunction with this decision.
Given that approach, Im going to focus here mainly on the points Prism has made in 
response to the PD, rather than to repeat everything again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with great care, all the relevant documents from when the advice was given. 
These included, but were not limited to, the Comprehensive Analysis Document (CAD) also 
of 27 November 2017, and the suitability report which set out Prisms advice to Mr W. 
As I said in my PD, I noted Prism has engaged two legal advisers during the complaint 
process. So, Ive also thought about what these advisers have had to say. More recently, 
Ive now considered Prisms representatives response to my PD. This is set out in a long 
letter of 28 December 2022. Again, using the same approaches as I have explained above, I 
have carefully and thoroughly considered everything said in this response. But once again, I 
have focussed mainly on the issues I consider to affect the outcome of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Prism's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Prism should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive therefore used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from 
the BSPS to a SIPP was in Mr Ws best interests. 
I still dont think it was, so Im now upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
I began my PD of 30 November 2022 by saying that, as required by the regulator at the time, 
Prism referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially 
the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the DB scheme. The 
critical yield is part of a range of different things which can help show how likely it is that a 
personal pension or SIPP could achieve the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out 
of a DB scheme to become financially viable. 
When our investigator issued their View, they originally made reference to the various 
different critical yield rates in this case, particularly those relating to Mr W drawing his 
pension benefits more or less immediately, at the age of around 56. 
However, as I explained, sometimes applying critical yield figures in comparing the benefits 
of an immediate retirement can often produce yields which are very high indeed. And this 
can result in the percentage yields being somewhat skewed and unmeaningful. In my view, 
this happened here and so I dont believe its helpful for us to use the critical yield figures in 
comparison with a retirement at the age of 56 when Mr W was already over 55. Ive noted 
Prism agrees with this approach.
Given Prisms wider responses, I also think were both accepting that Mr W genuinely 
intended to retire at the age of 56 and take benefits from his pension straight away. So, this 
means then that the critical yields for the age 65 also arent really relevant, as we 
acknowledge Mr W wouldnt have waited to take benefits until then. 
In further assessing the financial viability of transferring out of the DB scheme, there are 
some other comparisons we can draw upon. In my view, these provide a window into the 
overall value of the benefits Mr W would be giving up by acting on Prisms advice to transfer 
into a SIPP. These can be found in the transfer analysis Prism commissioned which showed that when being compared to BSPS2, to purchase an annuity with similar benefits at the age 
of 56, the cost of such a product would be £538,717 if taking a full pension. And if taking a 
reduced pension with a tax-free cash element the cost was £467,558. Compared against the 
PPF, the cost to buy similar benefits were £516,235 and £507,278 respectively, again using 
the more relevant age in this case of 56. All these figures are substantially above the CETV 
Mr W had been quoted from the BSPS.
Prism doesnt agree these comparisons are relevant given the poor value it says annuities 
represented at the time, even though they were set out in its own analysis from the time of 
the advice. It says the poor value of annuities means that in 99 out of 100 cases, the sum 
required to purchase an annuity, to match the existing scheme benefits is considerably 
higher. But in my view, this is disagreeing with comparisons made in its own 2017 transfer 
analysis because they dont necessarily fit Prisms narrative. 
For example, what the transfer analysis report also showed, was that even if I were to 
consider a comparison with buying an annuity to provide benefits of equal monetary value 
but assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, 
this still came in at £476,350 and £421,518 (taking out tax-free cash). This, of course, would 
be comparing a substantially reduced pension in terms of guarantees and wider benefits. So, 
I think these costs provide more evidence of the value Mr W was being advised to give up by 
transferring away.
However, after I issued my PD, Prism asked me to reconsider comments in the CAD (pages 
16/17) which, in 2017, said that on the open market, it could source an annuity with quite 
similar benefits that could be purchased with his transferred funds. This, however, appears 
to conflict with the transfer analysis data above, by implying that Mr W could have purchased 
a very slightly higher annuity with his CETV, at the age of 56. This appears to be an annuity 
option without taking any tax-free cash. But as well as appearing to directly contradict the 
transfer analysis document, here I would say, that even if this other annuity was available, 
that there would be little point in Mr W using his full fund to buy it, which would cost him all 
his money to do so. Instead, Ive considered Mr Ws wider circumstances overall, and 
whether transferring was in his best interests. Given the loss of guarantees and the apparent 
very marginal differences between him buying this different annuity and moving to the PPF, 
I dont think the risk was in his best interests. 
Given this conflicting information about the cost of annuities at the time, Ive relied on what 
was in the transfer analysis report. And of course, there would be little point in Mr W 
transferring to a personal pension unless there were clear financial advantages in doing so. 
Nothing Ive seen shows there were.
In short, whilst a comparable annuity might have been possible to have been purchased, in 
my view there was no point in him doing so giving everything else we know about Mr Ws 
circumstances and the opportunity he had to move to the PPF or BSPS2 at the time.
From a financial comparison perspective, I also considered the other various models and 
projections put forward by Prism at the time as to how Mr Ws transferred funds might 
provide a long-term retirement income within a SIPP. However, not all of these compared 
like-with-like benefits with the types of alternative DB scheme Mr W might transfer to, such 
as BSPS2 or the PPF. And none of them reliably show Mr W would be better off financially in 
the long term by transferring to a SIPP. 
I noted, for example, the projections showing when the SIPP funds might run out. Prism said 
based on taking a tax-free lump sum of £46,000 and an income of £12,000 per year, Mr Ws 
funds might last until he was 94. However, this doesnt account for Prisms implications now 
that Mr W apparently wanted to use more of his pension funds to pay down his rental 
property mortgages, or the assertion that he could access more tax-free cash in a SIPP, potentially up to around £110,000. These are good examples of where changes in a 
drawdown strategy would clearly have a substantial impact on fund exhaustion and overall, 
I dont think the models put forward by Prism were realistic.
In its reply to my PD, Prism also said the actual information in the transfer report and CAD 
regarding what it called run-out rates showed that, based on matching PPF benefits the 
amount available upon a transfer  taking into account all charges  would be able to match 
the PPF benefits to age of 110 (from age 65) or to the age of 97 (from age 56). Prism 
pointed out that these ages are well above Mr Ws life expectancy figure and show that the 
transfer could well improve Mr Ws benefits. However, like many of Prisms comparisons 
these do not include a spouses pension available under BSPS2 or the PPF. And as I 
explain later, these types of benefits were meaningful and relevant to Mr and Mrs W. Nor do 
they cater for market fluctuations and all the changes that would be levied in the case of a 
personal type of pension. At least one element of charges appears to be missing.
However, I agree with many of the points made by Prism in that I think its evident that 
Prisms recommendation for Mr W to transfer away from the DB scheme was substantially 
based on other reasons rather than just straightforward financial comparisons; the transfer 
advice was based on what Prism said was, "the flexibility you desire in terms of taking an 
income and tax-free cash and neither the scheme pension nor an annuity, would necessarily 
be appropriate for you.
So, despite there being no evidence that, in financial terms, the overall benefits of a transfer 
would be better for Mr W, Ive also thought about all the other considerations which might 
have meant a transfer was suitable. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
In its suitability report Prism recommended a transfer to a SIPP based on what it said were 
Mr Ws objectives. Much of these related to his property rental business and the mortgages 
he held on the five properties he owned. I noted the following themes were listed:
A higher tax-free lump sum would be beneficial. 
A SIPP would provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.
To enable more flexible death benefits to his spouse. 
It therefore seems the supporting reasons that Prism recommended the transfer for was 
much more related to the flexibility and control it offered to Mr W. I have considered all these 
issues in turn. 
Tax-free cash 
Prism referred to Mr W being able to access more tax-free cash via a SIPP, rather than the 
BSPS2 or PPF. It said the tax-free lump sums in the case of these was restricted to lower 
overall amounts and could be taken only once  at the outset of accessing the scheme 
benefits. On the other hand, the tax-free cash in a SIPP would be around £110,000 and 
could be taken as and when Mr W pleased.
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a SIPP when compared 
against a DB scheme or PPF; this is because the values and benefits of the schemes are 
calculated differently. However, as this was Mr Ws only workplace pension Prism should have been emphasising to Mr W at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed 
from a SIPP, from the age of 55 onwards, also came with consequences in that the amount 
left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr W faced, including opting for 
either the BSPS2 or PPF which came with a range of benefits and guarantees which I think 
would have been very relevant to Mr W. 
Flexibility
From all the information gathered at the time of the advice, Ive noted Mr Ws requirement 
from his pension benefits was an annual income of around £12,000. Prism said the uncertain 
nature of income from rental property ownership meant that Mr Ws need for additional 
income required flexibility to deal with tenant vacancies and upkeep costs. Prism also said 
Mr W required the ability to use his 25% tax-free pension lump sum more flexibly to pay off 
his debts and the various rental mortgages on his properties as they became due in the 
future.
I do understand the point being made here. And that looked at through a certain lens, a need 
for flexibility in Mr Ws retirement income to cope with these uncertainties going forward 
could potentially be made out. However, Prisms job here was to advise Mr W as to what 
was in his best overall interests. This means any apparent advantages to transferring out to 
a SIPP for flexibility reasons also had to be balanced against the guarantees and benefits 
Mr W was giving up by leaving a DB pension arrangement. Prism also needed to be mindful 
of the regulators starting point  that transfers from DB pensions should be assumed as not 
in the best interests of most consumers.
I also havent seen anything which shows that Mr W wouldnt have been able to meet his 
retirement income needs by transferring to either the BSPS2 or PPF instead of transferring 
away to a SIPP. In the case of moving to the BSPS2, for example, at the age of 56, Mr Ws 
DB pension was estimated to be £14,408 per year if taken as a full pension, and £10,379 if 
taken as a reduced pension and tax-free cash of £69,193. In moving to the PPF, these 
figures were £13,679 and £11,284 per year with tax-free cash of £75,226.
Ive noted Prisms reply to my PD takes issue with the above annual pension of £11,284 
being below the retirement income requirement of £12,000 Mr W had thought he might need. 
I consider this to be semantics, since the £12,000 was clearly an estimate and I doubt 
whether a taxable income shortfall of £716 per year would fundamentally change anything. 
Mr and Mrs W also had various other income sources which included rental income, Mrs Ws 
salary and a small pension she had. They also expected the state pension in due course.
Ive also read the comments Prism has made generally, about flexibility, following my issuing 
the PD. It said although I had said that I understood the points being made around flexibility, 
I had simply gone on to dismiss it. However, I havent dismissed the merits of flexibility  Ive 
more pointed out that it often comes with a price in that it results in the loss of important 
benefits and guarantees found typically in a DB scheme. And in my view, Mr W shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer his pension to a SIPP, when the alternatives of BSPS2 or the 
PPF existed.
So, I still think its reasonable to point out that in the case of both the BSPS2 and PPF the 
above amounts were guaranteed and index linked (with certain limitations) and overall, I 
think they fitted Mr Ws specific needs as recorded by him and Prism at the time they were 
discussing Mr Ws retirement income objectives. But overall, I cant see that Mr W required the degree of flexibility in retirement which justified Prism recommending that he transfer 
away from a DB pension altogether. 
As can sometimes be the case for early retirement situations, here, the PPF income and 
lump-sum figures were actually higher than BSPS2 and they broadly matched the income 
requirement Mr W had. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ws joint incomes already met their 
normal monthly expenditures as set out on the fact-find. Mr Ws current income from the 
property rental business was £18,000 per year (gross). Mrs W earned £16,900 (net) and she 
was also drawing a net pension of £125 per month. However, as I have said above, Mr W 
told Prism he wanted to add around an additional sum of £12,000 per year to their existing 
income, so I think the PPF annual income of £11,284 broadly met this need. 
Turning to Mr Ws principal and rental properties. Of the five interest-only mortgages they 
jointly had outstanding, four were 10 years away from needing repaying, and according to 
the documents Ive seen from the time of the advice, these were not priorities for Mr W to 
pay down completely at that point or anytime soon. In fact, even the remaining one 
mortgage - referred in some documents to the third property - which had two-and-a-half 
years left to run, did not require paying down at that point because it seems Mr W had 
secured an agreeable fixed-rate mortgage deal on it in the meantime. 
Therefore, in applying this to all his outstanding mortgage commitments, Prisms advice to 
transfer to a SIPP was substantially based on flexibility, primarily to enable Mr W to pay off 
debt, which included the third property mortgage Ive mentioned above - this had £46,000 
left outstanding. 
But as Ive shown, this was not an immediate requirement or priority, and even if it became 
one after two years or so, I think Mr W could have managed this (and his other unsecured 
lending debts) by transferring to the PPF and accessing the benefits at the age of 56. In this 
scenario, hed have broadly: achieved his additional income goals; accessed a tax-free lump 
sum of £75,226 to more than cater for his unsecured debts and the £46,000 mortgage; and 
hed still have had access to his existing savings of around £34,000. 
In my view, doing this achieved everything Mr W wanted from a financial perspective at the 
time and would have still left him with savings for any unforeseen events.
I have also considered the points made by Prisms legal advisers which say Mr Ws intention 
was not only to pay off the mortgage on the so-called third property, but that his intention 
was to also use the (larger) tax-free lump-sum generated by a SIPP, to pay off other 
mortgages too in the future. 
However, Ive not found persuasive evidence that Mr W intended to do this at the point he 
was seeking the financial advice from Prism. Wording in the CAD from the time actually said 
something quite different, You may look to use further tax-free lump sums later in your 
retirement towards your other mortgages, but this would be dependent on whether your fund 
value is sufficient to support these additional withdrawals. 
What this was therefore saying was that further use of tax-free pension cash to pay off more 
of the buy-to-let mortgages was not certain. And quite rightly, the above statement was also 
asserting the obvious in that if Mr W kept withdrawing sums from his pension to pay off all 
his mortgages, hed have much less for his retirement. 
What I think is fair to consider here is what Mr Ws investments were actually in. In a buy-to-
let scenario its common for interest-only mortgages to be in place. The business model is 
broadly that whilst one hopes for capital growth, an income is derived in the meantime. But 
the ultimate repaying of the interest-only mortgage is often predicated on the selling of the original asset. It seems to me that Mr W was already on an agreeable trajectory with all his 
properties, with substantial equity in each of them. The cumulative equity would have 
enabled him to sell some properties, yet still retain the others mortgage free. 
In short, I dont think he needed to use up substantial chunks of his pension to achieve this. 
Furthermore, it doesnt appear to have been considered that if Mr W did pay off his 
unsecured debts and the £46,000 mortgage using the tax-free cash, hed have had 
significant extra disposable income to either boost his savings further or pay down his other 
mortgages sooner. There also doesnt appear to be any information about Mrs Ws other 
pension(s) and how this might be used to support their retirement objectives.
I appreciate that once Mr and Mrs Ws state pensions became payable, they may have been 
in a position of having more income. Prism says that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr 
W to pay extra tax on this when, by transferring out, he could simply reduce the pension he 
took from his SIPP. But I think paying a marginal rate of tax on the extra income was a small 
price to pay for Mr W securing a guaranteed retirement income. And in any event, he could 
have gifted, reinvested or saved any excess income if he found he had too much, which 
would have also helped him to meet his objective of being able to pass his pension on in the 
event of his death. But its important for me to also say that Mr Ws income was not likely to 
be high and the idea of him having too much income lacks credibility, in my view.
Ive read Prisms responses to these points, including the assertion that all this was giving Mr 
W the flexibility and tax efficiency that he needed. However, Ive seen no evidence that 
joining the PPF, in his case, would likely lead to an unwanted tax burden.
Death benefits 
Ive previously outlined in detail (see attached PD), my thoughts about the death benefits, so 
Im not going to repeat them all here again.
Suffice to say, the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 and PPF would have been 
useful to Mrs W if Mr W predeceased her and I dont think Prism made the value of this 
benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. There may 
also not have been a large sum left anyway in a SIPP upon Mr Ws passing, particularly if he 
lived a long life  and certainly if Mr W had chosen to use a substantial amount of his 
pension savings to pay down the buy-to-let mortgages, as implied by Prism. In any event, 
Prism should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Ive read Prisms responses to these comments about the death benefits, all of which were 
set out when I originally issued my PD. But Prism centred its reply on the issue of what Mr W 
might have done with his existing buy-to-let mortgages  he could have paid them down, for 
instance, and therefore had equity to pass on to his wife (or another) that would not 
otherwise have been the case. Prism said, I had failed to take into account that, in such a 
case, the payments against the mortgages would have the knock on effect of releasing 
substantial equity in the properties, so there would still [be] a significant legacy benefit. 
However, we simply cant say what equity would have been left in Mr Ws properties if hed 
paid down some of the mortgages. And this wasnt discussed at the time of the advice  so, 
the points being made now that hed be better off have only been raised following the 
complaint being made. 
If this really was a genuine strategy, Id have expected it to have been made clearer when 
the advice was given. What the comments at the time actually said in relation to death 
benefits were that you wish for [Mrs W] to be able to have access to your full fund value in the event of your death, so that she can continue to draw an income in-line with her 
requirements. You do not wish to have a scheme pension where the income received will 
halve. You also wish to be in a position whereby your children can receive benefits from your 
pension, in the event of both your and [Mrs Ws] death. 
In my view, these were somewhat misleading comments which ignored the obvious value of 
the death benefits Mr and Mrs W might have enjoyed if the advice hadnt been to transfer 
away. What I said therefore stands, Mr W was being advised to give up death benefits  in 
this case under the PPF  which were of use to him and Mrs W. These were guaranteed and 
not subject to the prevailing market conditions. If Prisms view that there was a better way to 
use housing equity to pass on wealth after death, which outweighed the certainty of either 
the BSPS2 or PPF death benefits, then its advice at the time should have set this out in a 
plan that was understandable for Mr W. And I would also have expected that advice to weigh 
up the risks of relying purely on buy-to-let housing equity / income. This includes market 
conditions (again), periods of empty tenancy, and the management and upkeep of 
properties. In my view, these are quite different considerations when compared against the 
known death benefits in the BSPS2 or PPF.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Prism said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Prism said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Prisms obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. I think that at the time, what was happening should have also alleviated 
Mr Ws concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF and this ought to have been reflected 
in the advice he was given. And in his particular situation, the more suitable financial option 
was for Mr W to transfer to the PPF. 
So, I think that Prism should have reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income and tax-free cash available to Mr W 
through the PPF provided the lump sum and income he thought he needed, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment 
in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Prisms 
recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether, to a SIPP.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Prism wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income available to him within the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
By transferring to a SIPP, the evidence doesnt show Mr W was likely to obtain better 
retirement benefits. I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify 
the transfer and outweigh this - and the starting point of the regulator is that these types of 
transfer are unlikely to be suitable. 
I think his retirement objectives could have been met by moving with the scheme to the PPF 
and taking his benefits. Although Mr W spoke about potentially wanting to take further lump 
sums to pay down other mortgages, I think Prism ought to have advised Mr W against 
transferring to a personal pension arrangement for this reason as it wouldve substantially 
reduced the pension available to him for his retirement. Using property equity or income as a 
pension substitute wasnt properly explained, nor were the risks associated with this. And so, 
on the basis of what Ive comprehensively explained above, I think Prism should have 
advised Mr W to opt into the PPF as this best suited his needs.
I have further considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferred to a personal pension arrangement in any event. I accept that Prism disclosed 
some of the risks of transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a certain amount of 
information. But ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that 
advice. Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out to a personal 
pension arrangement, if this was against Prisms advice. I say this because his workplace 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Prism had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring to a personal pension, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Prism had explained Mr W was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I am upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
For this final decision, a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Prism to put Mr W, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.  I consider he 
would have remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF and 
accessed his benefits early, at the age of 56. So calculations should be undertaken on this 
assumption. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress.
 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mr W has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
So I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
Prism must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Prism may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Prism receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Prism 
to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late April 2023. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr W has retired. Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have 
applied in the PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms 
of the buy-out) that entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr 
W. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits 
which could be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require Prism to undertake a redress calculation on the current known 
basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to 
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
After a final decision Mr W accepts it he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as 
set out above. Its important that Mr W is aware that, once any final decision has been 
issued, if accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Prism to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: Im upholding this complaint and I require Prism EBC 
Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Prism EBC Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Prism 
EBC Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Prism EBC Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Prism EBC Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Appendix  Summary of provisional decision issued on 30 November 2022
Ive looked at all the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far I 
agree with our investigator about upholding it. However, as Im intending on doing so for slightly 
different reasons, Im going to issue a provisional decision. 
Ill look at any more comments or evidence I get about this complaint by 28 December 2022. But 
unless these change my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. 
The complaint 
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2017.
At the time, Mr W was a deferred member of the scheme, having been employed between 1978 
and March 2016 when he was made redundant. He then became self-employed.
Prism EBC Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, Ill 
refer mainly to Prism.
What happened 
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the 
scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). 
Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement. 
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so contacted an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) which in turn referred Mr W to Prism which is responsible for providing the pension 
advice. Information gathered about his circumstances and objectives were broadly as follows:
Mr W was 55 years old, married and with no financially dependent children. He was a self-
employed property manager and in good health.
Including his main residence, Mr W owned five residential properties with a total value of around 
£570,000. Two were owned jointly with Mrs W and three in his sole name. The total in mortgages 
outstanding was £352,000. 
Mr and Mrs W had liabilities of around £21,500 in other unsecured borrowing comprising credit card 
balances and a loan.
Mr W was earning around £18,000 per year from managing his property rentals business. Ive 
noted Mrs W had an income of £16,900 per year and a pension of £125 per month (net). At the time 
of the advice Mr and Mrs W were able to cover all their monthly expenditure with their income. 
However, Mr W had been recently supplementing his income needs by using some redundancy 
pay. Mr and Mrs W still had around £30,000 in cash savings and £4,000 in equity-based 
investments. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately £442,472 and the 
normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. However, Mr W said he intended accessing his pension 
savings more or less straightaway at around the age of 56. He intended to remain self-employed in 
his property rentals business.
Prism set out its advice in a suitability letter on 27 November 2017. It advised him to transfer out of 
the BSPS and invest the funds in a SIPP. Prism said this would allow Mr W to achieve his 
objectives.
Mr W accepted this advice and so transferred from the BSPS to a SIPP. In 2021 Mr W complained 
to Prism about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the BSPS. In response, Prism said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr W 
had at the time. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and 
said it should be upheld but Prism still didnt agree. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered with great care, all the relevant documents 
from when the advice was given. These included, but were not limited to, the Comprehensive 
Analysis Document also of 27 November 2017, and the Suitability Report which set out Prisms 
advice to Mr W. 
Ive also noted Prism has engaged two legal advisers during the complaint process. So, Ive also 
thought about what these advisers have had to say and in particular, Ive taken account of all the 
points made in the second legal advisers comprehensive response of 12 April 2022, to the View 
issued by the investigator in this case. However, whilst Ive noted all the points made, Ive rightly 
focussed on what I think to be the relevant aspects and points in this case. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards 
and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Prism's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
So, Prism should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive therefore used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the 
BSPS to a SIPP was in Mr Ws best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im intending to uphold his complaint.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator at the time, Prism referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. 
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the 
DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which can help show how likely it 
is that a personal pension or SIPP could achieve the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out 
of a DB scheme to become financially viable. 
Our investigator made reference to the various different critical yield rates when he issued his View, 
particularly those relating to Mr W drawing his pension benefits more or less immediately, at the 
age of 56. 
However, I should point out that sometimes applying critical yield figures in comparing the benefits 
of an immediate retirement can often produce yield figures which are very high indeed. And this can result in the percentage yields being somewhat skewed and unmeaningful. In my view, this 
happened here and so I dont believe its helpful for us to use the critical yield figures in comparison 
with a retirement at the age of 56 when Mr W was already over 55. Put another way, in this 
particular case, the use of critical yields for immediate retirement provide very little by way of a 
realistic comparison between the benefits of a DB pension (and in this case, also the PPF)  and 
transferring to a personal pension arrangement such as a SIPP. 
So, although our investigator went into some considerable detail about the very high critical yield 
rates for retirement at 56, Im not going to use these to arrive at a decision about the complaint, as I 
dont believe they are relevant comparisons. 
Comparing the critical yield figures for retiring at the NRA of 65 can give a more realistic 
comparison, in general terms, between remaining in a DB scheme or transferring out to a personal 
pension arrangement. This is because there is a much more meaningful time period to compare the 
projected growth rates of funds within a SIPP, for example, with the estimated benefits of remaining 
in a DB scheme such as the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF. But once again, I think its also important 
to bear in mind in this particular case that Mr W wasnt intending to retire at the age of 65 - he 
wanted to draw the benefits from his pension savings straight away. The critical yield comparison 
for the age of 65 therefore also has notable limitations in this case.
Nevertheless, in its own suitability report Prism did still say that its analysis of the critical yields to 
the age 65, showed that given your stated attitude to risk, these returns are, in-line with and below 
your expected investment returns, and could be achieved. So, what I think Prism was saying here 
was that transferring out of the DB scheme to a SIPP was generally a positive step from a financial 
comparison perspective. In my view, Prism was setting the scene for moving to a personal pension 
arrangement and implying that the transferred-out funds, in a new SIPP, would grow to an extent 
that made transferring worthwhile. 
Ill therefore make some comments about this.
However, even though I think a retirement comparison, even for the age of 65, is somewhat 
irrelevant here, I think its important for me to also say that Prisms above description about 
achieving returns was misleading. This is because, even for a retirement at 65, some nine years 
distant, I think the critical yields and other growth projections failed to show transferring out was 
better from a growth perspective.
As I show below, the critical yield figures for a 65 retirement merely show that whilst Mr W might 
possibly have been able to grow his transferred-out pension to achieve roughly the same level of 
benefits as the BSPS2 or the PPF, the opportunity to improve on them was limited, and in my view 
unlikely.  And I think there would be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him 
through a DB scheme or PPF only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. So, by implying Mr W could grow his funds above the critical yields, I think Prism was 
overstating the case. 
To demonstrate these points, the yields Prism was referring to in its suitability report were 5.79% for 
the BSPS2, and 4.62% compared with entering the PPF. Both assumed taking a full pension at 65 
with no tax-free lump sum. The corresponding percentages for taking tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension in each case were 4.13% and 4.38% respectively. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how 
businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a 
past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was published 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and was 3.7% per year 
for 9 years to retirement, which in this case was being compared against the NRA of 65. This is 
below all the figures Ive set out above and so implies the critical yield figures would be hard to 
achieve. But Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. I have also factored in that, at 
the time, Prism assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR) as high medium so I think a figure higher 
than the discount rate, and close to the mid-point of the regulators projections was most relevant. 
However, as our investigator pointed out, the issue of the SIPP fees and charges needs also to be 
considered. Ive noted Prisms first legal adviser responded to the investigators View and said the investigator had over-estimated the effect of fees and charges relating to the transferred funds 
because of an arrangement made to limit fees with the recommended SIPP. But Ive noted that they 
conceded, nonetheless, that annual management charges and an ongoing adviser fee still applied. 
Its possible to go into great detail as to whether, or to what effect the fees and charges pertaining 
to the SIPP mattered. But Ive looked at the SIPPs Key Facts document from the time which 
acknowledges that charges and fees would reduce growth. And to make the advice to transfer out 
suitable, from a financial comparison perspective, I think its reasonable to say there would need to 
be evidence Mr W could improve upon the benefits he had in either the BSPS2 or PPF.
However, in my view, theres no clear evidence that Mr W would have improved his pension 
benefits by transferring out, even if he had waited until the age of 65. Taking the regulators mid-
rate and comparing it against the critical yields at 65, I dont think theres any clear evidence that Mr 
Ws pension benefits were being improved by him transferring out, not least because of the charges 
and fees that would be associated with a SIPP. And as Ive said, in any event, Mr Ws 
circumstances were such that he wanted to access his benefits immediately, rather than waiting to 
the NRA. 
In assessing the financial viability of transferring out of the DB scheme, there are some other 
comparisons we can draw upon. In my view, these provide a window into the overall value of the 
benefits Mr W would be giving up by acting on Prisms advice to transfer into a SIPP. These can be 
found in the transfer analysis Prism commissioned which showed that when being compared to 
BSPS2, to purchase an annuity with similar benefits at the age of 56, the cost of such a product 
would be £538,717 if taking a full pension. And if taking a reduced pension with a tax-free cash 
element the cost was £467,558. Compared against the PPF, the cost to buy similar benefits were 
£516,235 and £507,278 respectively, again using the more relevant age in this case of 56. All these 
figures are substantially above the CETV Mr W had been quoted from the BSPS.
Finally, from a financial comparison perspective, I considered the various models and projections 
put forward by Prism at the time as to how Mr Ws transferred funds might provide a long-term 
retirement income within a SIPP. However, not all of these compared like-with-like benefits with the 
types of alternative DB scheme Mr W might transfer to, such as BSPS2 or the PPF. And none of 
them show Mr W would be better off financially in the long term by transferring to a SIPP. 
I noted, for example, the projections showing when the SIPP funds might run out. Prism said based 
on taking a tax-free lump sum of £46,000 and an income of £12,000 per year, Mr Ws funds might 
last until he was 94. However, this doesnt account for Prisms implications now that Mr W 
apparently wanted to use more of his pension funds to pay down his rental property mortgages, or 
the assertion that he could access more tax-free cash in a SIPP, potentially up to around £110,000. 
These are good examples of where changes in a drawdown strategy would clearly have a 
substantial impact on fund exhaustion and overall, I dont think the models put forward by Prism 
were realistic.
However, I agree with many of the points made by Prism in that I think its evident that Prisms 
recommendation for Mr W to transfer away from the DB scheme was substantially based on other 
reasons rather than just straightforward financial comparisons; the transfer advice was based on 
what Prism said was "the flexibility you desire in terms of taking an income and tax-free cash and 
neither the scheme pension nor an annuity, would necessarily be appropriate for you.
So, despite there being no evidence that, in financial terms, the overall benefits of a transfer would 
be better for Mr W, Ive also thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
In its suitability report Prism recommended a transfer to a SIPP based on what it said were Mr Ws 
objectives. Much of these related to his property rental business and the mortgages he held on the 
five properties he owned. I noted the following themes were listed:
A higher tax-free lump sum would be beneficial. 
A SIPP would provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.To enable more flexible death benefits to his spouse. 
It therefore seems the supporting reasons that Prism recommended the transfer for was much more 
related to the flexibility and control it offered to Mr W. I have considered all these issues in turn. 
Tax-free cash 
Prism referred to Mr W being able to access more tax-free cash via a SIPP, rather than the BSPS2 
or PPF. It said the tax-free lump sums in the case of these was restricted to lower overall amounts 
and could be taken only once  at the outset of accessing the scheme benefits. On the other hand, 
the tax-free cash would be around £110,000 and could be taken as and when Mr W pleased.
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a SIPP when compared against 
a DB scheme or PPF; this is because the values and benefits of the schemes are calculated 
differently. However, as this was Mr Ws only workplace pension Prism should have been telling Mr 
W at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a SIPP, from the age of 55 
onwards, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, this 
needed to be considered against the other options Mr W faced, including opting for either the 
BSPS2 or PPF which came with a range of benefits and guarantees which I think would have been 
very relevant to Mr W. 
Flexibility
From all the information gathered at the time of the advice, Ive noted Mr Ws requirement from his 
pension benefits was an annual income of around £12,000. Prism said the uncertain nature of 
income from rental property ownership meant that Mr Ws need for additional income required 
flexibility to deal with tenant vacancies and upkeep costs. Prism also said Mr W required the ability 
to use his 25% tax-free pension lump sum more flexibly to pay off his debts and the various rental 
mortgages on his properties as they became due in the future.
I do understand the point being made here. And that looked at through a certain lens, a need for 
flexibility in Mr Ws retirement income to cope with these uncertainties going forward could 
potentially be made out. However, Prisms job here was to advise Mr W as to what was in his best 
overall interests. This means any apparent advantages to transferring out to a SIPP for flexibility 
reasons also had to be balanced against the guarantees and benefits Mr W was giving up by 
leaving a DB pension arrangement. Prism also needed to be mindful of the regulators starting point 
 that transfers from DB pensions should be assumed as not in the best interests of consumers.
I also havent seen anything which shows that Mr W wouldnt have been able to meet his retirement 
income needs by transferring to either the BSPS2 or PPF instead of transferring away to a SIPP. In 
the case of moving to the BSPS2, for example, at the age of 56, Mr Ws DB pension was estimated 
to be £14,408 per year if taken as a full pension, and £10,379 if taken as a reduced pension and 
tax-free cash of £69,193. In moving to the PPF, these figures were £13,679 and £11,284 per year 
with tax-free cash of £75,226.
In the case of both the BSPS2 and PPF the above amounts were guaranteed and index linked (with 
certain limitations) and I think they fitted Mr Ws specific needs as recorded by him and Prism at the 
time they were discussing Mr Ws retirement income objectives. But overall, I cant see that Mr W 
required the degree of flexibility in retirement which justified Prism recommending that he transfer 
away from a DB pension altogether. 
As can sometimes be the case for early retirement situations, here, the PPF income and lump-sum 
figures were actually higher than BSPS2 and they broadly matched the income requirement Mr W 
had. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ws joint incomes already met their normal monthly expenditures as 
set out on the fact-find. Mr Ws current income from the property rental business was £18,000 per 
year (gross). Mrs W earned £16,900 (gross) and she was also drawing a net pension of £125 per 
month. However, as I have said above, Mr W told Prism he wanted to add around an additional 
sum of £12,000 per year to their existing income, so I think the PPF annual income of £11,284 
broadly met this need. 
Turning to Mr Ws principal and rental properties. Of the five interest-only mortgages they jointly 
had outstanding, four were 10 years away from needing repaying, and according to the documents Ive seen from the time of the advice, these were not priorities for Mr W to pay down completely at 
that point or anytime soon. In fact, even the remaining one mortgage- referred in some documents 
to the third property - which had two-and-a-half years left to run, did not require paying down at 
that point because it seems Mr W had secured an agreeable fixed-rate mortgage deal on it in the 
meantime. 
Therefore, in applying this to all his outstanding mortgage commitments, Prisms advice to transfer 
to a SIPP was substantially based on flexibility, primarily to enable Mr W to pay off debt, which 
included the third property mortgage Ive mentioned above - this had £46,000 left outstanding. 
But as Ive shown, this was not an immediate requirement or priority, and even if it became one 
after two years or so, I think Mr W could have managed this (and his other unsecured lending 
debts) by transferring to the PPF and accessing the benefits at the age of 56. In this scenario, hed 
have broadly: achieved his additional income goals; accessed a tax-free lump sum of £75,226 to 
more than cater for his unsecured debts and the £46,000 mortgage; and hed still have had access 
to his existing savings of around £34,000. 
In my view, doing this achieved everything Mr W wanted from a financial perspective at the time 
and would have still left him with savings for any unforeseen events.
I have also considered the points made by Prisms legal advisers in April 2022 which say Mr Ws 
intention was not only to pay off the mortgage on the so-called third property, but that his intention 
was to also use the (larger) tax-free lump-sum generated by a SIPP, to pay off other mortgages too. 
However, Ive not found persuasive evidence that Mr W intended to do this at the point he was 
seeking the financial advice from Prism. Wording in the Comprehensive Analysis Document from 
the time actually said something quite different, You may look to use further tax-free lump sums 
later in your retirement towards your other mortgages, but this would be dependent on whether your 
fund value is sufficient to support these additional withdrawals. 
What this was therefore saying was that further use of tax-free pension cash to pay off more of the 
buy-to-let mortgages was not certain. And quite rightly, the above statement was also asserting the 
obvious in that if Mr W kept withdrawing sums from his pension to pay off all his mortgage, hed 
have much less for his retirement. 
What I think is fair to consider here is what Mr Ws investments were actually in. In a buy-to-let 
scenario its common for interest-only mortgages to be in place. The business model is broadly that 
whilst one hopes for capital growth, an income is derived in the meantime. But the ultimate repaying 
of the interest-only mortgage is often predicated on the selling of the original asset. It seems to me 
that Mr W was already on an agreeable trajectory with all his properties, with substantial equity in 
each of them. The cumulative equity would have enabled him to sell some properties, yet still retain 
the others mortgage free. 
In short, he didnt need to use up substantial chunks of his pension to achieve this.
Death benefits 
Prism says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the SIPP would better enable the 
retention of the value of the funds if Mr W died. It said this could be seen as a legacy to be inherited 
more flexibly. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a SIPP 
was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea to transfer to a SIPP 
because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Prism 
explored to what extent Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits.
I think its fair to also point out that Mr W was still only 55 years old and his health was descried as 
excellent. Mrs W was also in good health and aged 58. I think the likely death benefits attached to 
the DB scheme were also substantially underplayed. Ive looked carefully at the advice timescales 
involved and at when emerging details of the new scheme were being released. Members were 
sent a Time to Choose booklet in October 2017 and I think its reasonable for me to say that BSPS2 was going to provide death benefits not substantially different to those in the BSPS and PPF 
benefits were already known. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 and PPF would have been useful to Mrs W if Mr W 
predeceased her and I dont think Prism made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a SIPP was. There may also not have been a large sum left anyway in a 
SIPP upon Mr Ws passing, particularly if he lived a long life  and certainly if Mr W had chosen to 
use a substantial amount of his pension savings to pay down the buy-to-let mortgages, as implied 
by Prism. In any event, Prism should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and Prism said he 
lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and Prism said he could 
have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it was Prisms 
obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. I think that at the time, what was happening should have also alleviated Mr Ws 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF and this ought to have been reflected in the advice 
he was given. And in his particular situation, the more suitable financial option was for Mr W to 
transfer to the PPF. 
So, I think that Prism should have reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF provided the income he 
thought he needed, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And 
although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was 
not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Prisms 
recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether, to a SIPP
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Prism wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-
free and increasing income available to him within the BSPS2 or the PPF. By transferring to a 
SIPP, the evidence doesnt show Mr W was likely to obtain any better retirement benefits. And I 
dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think Prism ought to have advised Mr W against transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement for this reason. And on the basis of what Ive comprehensively explained above, I 
think Prism should have advised Mr W to opt into the PPF as this best suited his needs.
I have further considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferred to a personal pension arrangement in any event. I accept that Prism disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice. Im not persuaded 
that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out to a personal pension arrangement, if this was 
against Prisms advice. I say this because his workplace pension accounted for almost all of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if Prism had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
to a personal pension, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted 
that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the PPF were so great that he would have 
insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had 
sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So if Prism had explained Mr W was also unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Prism should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman