DRN-4288047
The complaint
Mr U complains about the service he has received from SJP. He says that he was entitled to 
ask for an increase of the sum assured on his term assurance policy, but SJP only 
eventually completed this after he had raised a complaint. He also complains that every year 
his sum assured dropped again despite this change, and he has had to remind SJP of the 
change in order for him to pay the correct premium and have the appropriate protection. 
Furthermore, Mr U asked SJP to increase the sum assured again in 2022, but he has 
received no reply or confirmation that this has been done. 
What happened
SJP looked into Mr Us complaint and agreed that it hadnt acted correctly. It explained what 
had happened in relation to Mr Us first request to increase the sum assured, and explained 
that the issue had now been fixed. It offered Mr U £300 for the trouble and upset these 
matters had caused him. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Us complaint, and thought that this offer was fair. He 
acknowledged that SJPs service had not been up to the standard Mr U was entitled to 
expected, but he considered that matters had now been put right and the offer of £300 was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the issues Mr U experienced. 
Mr U didnt agree. In short, he thought that £1,000 compensation would better address the 
trouble that this matter had put him through, particularly the constant chasing to ensure SJP 
actioned his original request to increase the sum assured. Furthermore, Mr U noted that SJP 
had still not dealt with his second request to increase the sum assured  and his most recent 
statement showed that this hadnt happened. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. In the meantime, 
the investigator reached out to SJP a number of times to inquire about Mr Us second 
request to increase the sum assured, but he received no reply. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 upholding Mr Us complaint, and increasing the 
compensation. I said:
Its clear to me that SJP has acknowledged its service to Mr U was poor, and as a result it 
has offered to pay him some compensation. However, when the investigator originally 
endorsed SJPs offer, it was on the understanding that all the issues Mr U had complained 
about had been resolved  but its obvious they have not. Mr U is still waiting to have 
confirmation from SJP that his second request to have the sum assured raised has been 
acted upon. And this service has been unable to receive a response about this from SJP. 
In the circumstances, I dont agree that £300 is fair and reasonable. In my view, this matter 
has caused Mr U unnecessary inconvenience over a significant period of time  and the fact 
that this concerns the level of protection afforded to him for his mortgage means that the 
matter is not trivial. It is something important which, if not done promptly and correctly, could 
have significant financial implications. 
Mr U is SJPs client and he is entitled to be treated fairly and for SJP to ensure that his best 
interests are properly taken into account when it is acting on his instructions. 
Its clear to me that by not acting on Mr Us request to increase the sum assured of his policy 
it has failed to do this. And this failure is compounded by the previous failures to ensure that 
Mr Us policy was properly administered and updated. I acknowledge the explanations SJP 
has provided for why those errors occurred, and I accept that it has now put things right. But 
those actions do not take away the inconvenience that was caused to Mr U at the time. 
In the circumstances, Ive therefore decided to increase the compensation SJP must pay to 
Mr U to £500, with a direction that it respond to Mr Us request for an increase to the sum 
assured. If SJP does not respond to this provisional decision, I will make this direction in my 
final decision and request that SJP respond to Mr U within 28 days of when we tell it that 
SJP has accepted my final decision. 
I acknowledge that the £500 Ive awarded is still far short of the sum Mr U considered 
appropriate compensation for the service he has experienced. However, when increasing 
the award Ive taken into account the length of time Mr U has been experiencing these 
issues with SJP, as well as the continued failure to respond to his most recent request to 
raise the sum assured. Ive also taken into account the obvious upset and inconvenience this 
has caused him, both in terms of having to chase SJP when the incorrect premiums were 
taken, as well as having to chase SJP now for a response. However, Ive also had to take 
into account the fact that SJP did act when he complained and addressed the issue on its 
system so that it shouldnt happen again  and whilst Ive no doubt the matter has caused Mr 
U distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied it has affected his day to day life or had a 
permanent or detrimental impact on his overall financial circumstances. 
Therefore, taking all this into account, as well as our guidance on awards for distress and 
inconvenience, Im satisfied £500 is fair and reasonable. 
SJP did not reply to my provisional decision. Mr U replied, and said that he didnt think any of 
his complaints had been handled correctly by SJP. He said that SJP eventually corrected the 
issue with the sum assured dropping every year, but didnt deal with the issue of how that 
increase in the sum assured was reported. He acknowledged my finding that his latest 
increase had still not been acted on by SJP. He also queried SJPs consistent use of the 
term concession when referring to his request to increase the sum  but Mr U said that this 
wasnt a concession, it was part of the policy he had taken out and something he was 
entitled to. He queried whether there were other clients affected by this. 
Finally Mr U said he wasnt sure hed ever placed a sum on the impact he had suffered  he 
emphasised his primary reason for complaining was to get SJP to adhere to the terms of the 
policy he had. He said that he had disappointingly found this very hard to achieve despite 
this services involvement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Us comments, but I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. I acknowledge Mr Us comments about SJPs failure to adhere to the terms of his policy. I 
acknowledged some of those failures in my provisional decision  but it is clear that there 
are limits to the powers I have to actually compel a business to act in a particular way. In this 
case what Ive sought to do is identify areas that are key and that remain outstanding. As far 
as I can see, these are:
The unresolved impact that the matter has caused him from the start; and
The failure to respond to his latest request to increase the sum assured. 
Whilst I understand why the use of certain terms is confusing or unacceptable to Mr U, I 
dont agree those issues are key. SJP has said that it refers to concession where the 
transaction is granted outside of regular procedure. Im not sure thats relevant or that 
material to the issues Mr U is experiencing. And Im not able to consider the impact or 
potential impact on other clients of SJP. 
In terms of the unresolved impact, Mr U made reference in an email to the investigator, to 
wanting SJP to offer compensation closer to £1,000, and this is the figure I understood to 
be what Mr U thought was fair and reasonable. For that reason I thought it important to 
explain why I was awarding less than that. I remain of the view that £500 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the impact SJPs actions and inactions have had on Mr U for 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. I therefore confirm them here as final. 
Mr U, as he has rightly pointed out, also has a request to increase his sum assured which 
SJP has not responded to. The terms of Mr Us contract say clearly that, at his request, SJP 
will increase the Sum Assured. The contract sets some limits and terms around this option, 
but it is clear to me that Mr U is entitled to request the sum assured to be increased and SJP 
is obliged to consider such request and apply the terms of Mr Us contract fairly. Im satisfied 
it has failed to do this on his most recent request. I acknowledge Mr Us dissatisfaction with 
the fact that this issue remains outstanding but, as explained above, there are limits to my 
ability to compel a business to do something when it has failed to respond  as is the case 
here. As I explained in my provisional decision, the investigator has repeatedly asked SJP 
for an update on this issue and it has not responded. 
Putting things right
As a result, in order to bring some finality to this particular complaint, Ive decided to:
Award Mr U £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
This award only compensates Mr U for the impact up to the date of my final decision. 
Should SJP not comply with my direction below, Mr U will be entitled to raise a new 
complaint. 
Direct SJP to consider Mr Us request to increase the sum assured and apply the 
terms of his policy to that request. It needs to provide its response to Mr U, along 
with any relevant paperwork, within 28 days of when we tell it Mr U has accepted 
this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman