DRN-2755299
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Share Centre Limited (TSC) sold his shares to pay for charges he 
was unaware of. Hes also unhappy with the transfer of his shares to TSC from another 
business.
What happened
Mr F held shares on the TSC platform. His portfolio had been transferred from another 
business which Ill refer to as B. B had gone into administration in 2018. Bs administrators 
subsequently sold part of its (Bs) business to TSC. The administrators wrote to all 
shareholders to let them know about the transfer to TSC and enclosed a TSC welcome letter 
and its terms of business. 
TSC wrote separately to Mr F to his postal address on 20 September 2018 to let him know 
about the transfer. Various correspondence relating to the operation of the account which 
were mostly sent by email, ensued after this point. In August 2020, TSC sold all of Mr Fs 
shares to cover outstanding fees totalling almost £40.
Mr F complained saying that 1) he hadnt been told about the fees or that his shares would 
be sold to cover these and 2) he thought his shares were still held by B. But TSC rejected 
Mr Fs complaint saying it had taken reasonable steps to let him know about the transfer. As 
part of the transfer, it noted Mr F was sent information from both itself and the 
administrators. And as the charges had remained unpaid, its terms and conditions allowed it 
to sell his shares to cover the costs of the fees. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered itd been made reasonably clear 
to Mr F that his shares had been transferred from B to TSC. Our investigator was satisfied 
TSCs terms and conditions meant it could sell Mr Fs shares to cover the overdue fees.
Mr F disagreed. He didnt think it was fair that the onus was on him to prove that he was 
informed  he felt he was being accused of lying about not receiving information from TSC. 
He said he hadnt received any correspondence from TSC. So he asked for the matter to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The administrators of B wrote to Mr F in August and September 2018 to let him know about 
the transfer to TSC of Bs business. The notices from the administrators seem to have been 
sent to Mr F by email. But a letter was sent to Mr Fs postal address by TSC on 
20 September 2018. This clearly explained it had taken over Mr Fs account and gave 
information about how he could access his account online.
Mr F says he didnt receive any of the correspondence about the transfer of his shares to 
TSC. But I can see the letter sent to him by TSC was correctly addressed. So whilst I think 
its possible Mr F didnt receive the letter from TSC about the transfer, I think its more likely 
than not that it was correctly delivered to his postal address. Given this, Im satisfied TSC did 
put Mr F on notice of the transfer and that therefore, his account would be subject to new 
terms and conditions.
In regards of TSCs decision to sell Mr Fs shares, its not disputed that Mr F didnt pay the 
fees that were owed. TSC sent Mr F notice of the fees that applied to his account in his 
quarterly and annual statements. Each statement also said that if there were insufficient 
funds to pay the fee, shares would be sold to cover the costs. 
Mr F says he didnt receive the emails with the quarterly statements as he stopped using the 
email address TSC has for him in around 2016. This was the email passed on to TSC by the 
administrators. TSC says no emails were returned to it undelivered and it could see that an 
email was opened by the recipient on 5 October 2018  this email was sent by the 
administrators but it was the same email address passed to, and used by, TSC. Whilst I 
appreciate theres no way of knowing for sure whether the emails had actually been read by 
Mr F, in all the circumstances Ive set out above, I think it was reasonable for TSC to 
consider its emails had been correctly sent and delivered to Mr F.
I should note at this point that if Mr F thinks the administrators have done anything wrong in 
terms of the information it passed on to TSC  such as his contact details  or by not 
notifying him of the transfer, this is something he will need to raise with them directly.
All in all, Im satisfied that TSC made reasonable efforts to put Mr F on notice about what 
fees were due and chargeable. And as there were insufficient funds in Mr Fs account to pay 
the fees, I consider TSC acted fairly when it sold his shares. I appreciate this meant all of 
Mr Fs shares had to be sold, but I think under all the circumstances, it was fair and 
reasonable for TSC to do so. 
Finally, I want to make it clear that Im not accusing Mr F of lying about not receiving the 
letters and/ or emails from TSC  I simply have to decide on balance of probabilities whats 
more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman