DRN-3594237
The complaint
Mr H complains that W Todd & Son Limited cancelled his commercial vehicle insurance
policies without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr H changed a vehicle on his policy following an accident. The insurer of the policy said
there was an additional premium for the replacement vehicle. Todd let Mr H know about the
additional premium during phone calls made to it. Mr H wasnt happy about the
additional premium and wanted to complain to the insurer about it.
Todd let Mr H know if he didnt wish to pay the additional premium then his only option was
to cancel the policy. A couple of weeks later, as the additional premium hadnt been paid,
Todd wrote to Mr H to let him know it would cancel his policy if payment wasnt received.
As payment wasnt received Todd cancelled Mr Hs policy, as allowed to in its terms of
business.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained. He referred his complaint to this service and
said hed asked how much refund he would get if he cancelled his policy but never returned
the forms to confirm he wanted to cancel the policy. He said he then received notification his
policies had been cancelled without his knowledge.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 November 2022 where I said I was
satisfied Todd hadnt done anything wrong in cancelling one of Mr Hs policies. Mr H
responded and confirmed there was also a second policy cancelled without his knowledge. I
asked Todd for its submissions about this second policy being cancelled and the reasons for
it.
Todd has provided a notice of cancellation letter for the second policy and said its
unfortunately unable to provide calls relating to it. However, Todd has said Mr H had become
abusive to staff following the first cancellation and either asked for his policy to be cancelled
or said it made the decision to cancel it due to Mr Hs behaviour.
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint on 17 February 2023 where I said:
In regard to the first policy being cancelled, Todds terms of business say under the 
Finance and Premium Payments section:
Failure to comply with premium payments will entitle us to cancel
the policy. If we have to invoke cancellation we will give you seven
days notice.
As the terms of business Mr H agreed to allow Todd to cancel his policy if the premium
hasnt been paid, Ive looked to see whether it acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Todd has provided two calls in which the additional premium for the change of vehicle are
discussed with Mr H. In the calls its clear Mr H doesnt agree he should have to pay an
additional premium. Todd let Mr H know that the insurer wont change its position on the
additional premium and that if he doesnt want to pay the additional premium then his only
option is to cancel the policy. Mr H asks how much he would receive if he cancelled, and
Todd explain it needs to send him a cancellation form which he must complete and return
before it can calculate any return premium. Mr H also says hell raise the additional
premium with his insurer as hes not happy about it.
Around two weeks after these calls the additional premium hadnt been paid. Because of
this, Todd sent Mr H a letter which let him know it would cancel his policy in seven days
time unless he pays the outstanding balance. Ive reviewed this letter and its clear that Mr
Hs policy will be cancelled in seven days time and that no cover will be in place.
As no payment was received Todd cancelled Mr Hs policy and sent him a letter to confirm
this. When a policy is cancelled, I think its good industry practice to let someone know by
using two methods of communication. While I can see Todd only sent one letter before
the cancellation, it also sent Mr H confirmation when his policy was cancelled. Also, Todd
had discussed the additional premium in the calls with Mr H and let him know if he didnt pay
it then the only option would be to cancel the policy. Im therefore not persuaded Todd has
done anything wrong as it gave Mr H seven days notice of cancellation and he had been
made aware he needed to pay the additional premium, or his policy would be cancelled.
In response to the second policy being cancelled, Ive been provided with a copy of a letter
sent via recorded delivery which informs Mr H his policy will be cancelled in seven days of
the date of that letter.
Ive noted that the terms of business also say under the Termination section that Todd or
Mr H can cancel the agreement by giving seven days notice. Mr H and Todd have provided
a copy of the letter Todd sent giving seven days notice of cancellation of the second policy.
When Ive reviewed this letter, it doesnt give any reasons and Todd has said its unable to
provide the calls when this was discussed. I also havent seen that Mr H was notified when
his policy was cancelled as I would expect.
As Ive said above, I think its good industry practice to let someone know a policy will be
cancelled by using two methods of communication. And for the second policy I cant see this
happened, or that the reason was communicated to Mr H in writing. However, Mr H
confirmed receipt of this letter and said he called the following day, the day it was cancelled,
and told it was due to non-payment on his other policy. Im therefore satisfied Mr H was
made aware of the cancellation of the second policy, and its likely that he was notified of the
reasons for the cancellation. So while Mr H doesnt agree with either cancellation, the terms
of business do allow Todd to cancel both his policies. When also taking into account there
was an unpaid premium on the other policy, Im not going to interfere with Todds decision
and tell it to do anything differently.
Ive also noticed Mr H has raised concerns about the amount of premium he lost due to his
policies being cancelled. When a policy is cancelled its down to the insurer to decide
whether and how much premium is refunded. As Im satisfied Todd cancelled the policies in
line with its terms of business if Mr H is unhappy with any refund of premium he would need
to raise that separately with the insurer.
Todd didnt respond to my second provisional decision by the date requested. Mr H 
responded and didnt accept it. He raised several points in objection to it. To summarise, he 
said he didnt receive the letter about the second policy being cancelled until after the policy 
had been cancelled. He disputed that his behaviour towards Todds staff had been abusive 
and feels that Todds duty of care to him and his customers is flawed. Mr H thought it was 
unfair to have the second policy cancelled due to a dispute over payment on his other policy and asked whether I thought Todd should refund the lost premiums for the second policy. Mr 
H also said he didnt think it was fair to cancel his policies without his agreement. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs response, but Im not persuaded to change my decision. With regard 
to not having received the notice of cancellation for the second policy. I can see it was dated 
10 November 2021. In Mr Hs complaint form when he referred the complaint to us, he said 
he received this letter on 16 November and then called Todd on 17 November. So, from Mr 
Hs own testimony, when the complaint was referred here, he said he received the letter and 
was made aware of the cancellation within the seven days notice. 
While its disappointing to see Mr H received this letter six days after it was sent, the terms of 
business say Todd will issue a seven days notice of cancellation. And as Todd did this, Im 
not persuaded Todd did anything wrong. 
I would also like to assure Mr H that while Todd said Mr H was abusive toward his staff, Ive 
only been provided Todds testimony to support this. Im therefore not persuaded there is 
enough to show Mr H was abusive towards Todds staff and didnt make that finding in my 
provisional decision. I understand Mr H feels Todds standard of care is flawed and that it 
was unfair to cancel his second policy over a disputed payment on the other policy. As 
explained in my provisional decision, the terms of business allow Todd to cancel the policy, 
without Mr Hs consent, if the relevant notice is given. And as Todd did this, Im not going to 
interfere with Todds decision to cancel Mr Hs policies for the reasons explained above and 
in my provisional decision.
Lastly as explained above and in my provisional decision, if Mr H is unhappy with the 
amount of premium he received from the insurer when the policies were cancelled, he would 
need to raise this with the insurer.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman