DRN-4237519
The complaint
Mr S complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) gave him incorrect 
information about an extended warranty policy which caused him to lose the opportunity to 
register two items.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr S became entitled to an extended warranty policy when he opened his new 
bank account. The policy was underwritten by D&G.
The policy entitled Mr S to register up to three appliances per calendar year, purchased 
using his bank card, up to the value of £2,000 per item, and within 90 days of purchase. 
In July of that year, Mr S asked if hed be able to register a camera he was planning to buy. 
D&G said he couldnt because it was over the maximum purchase price. In September, he 
tried to register the camera hed bought but D&G declined cover for the same reason.
The bank wrote to Mr S in January 2023 explaining it had incorrectly said there was a limit of 
three appliances per calendar year when in fact it was unlimited. The letter advised Mr S to 
contact D&G if he felt he had been disadvantaged by the incorrect information.
Mr S contacted D&G and asked to register two camera accessories. Because hed bought 
them more than 90 days earlier, D&G declined cover. 
Mr S complained. He said he wouldve registered them sooner if hed been aware that he 
could register unlimited items, so hed been disadvantaged by the misinformation.
D&G sent Mr S its final response explaining that it hadnt told him there was a limit on the 
number of appliances he could register. D&G didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought it to 
us.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said Mr S gave a plausible explanation of 
waiting to register anticipated purchases, so he thought Mr S had lost out because of the 
incorrect information. Our investigator said D&G ought to register the items on the policy and 
pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
D&G didnt agree. It said Mr S went on to register two items in January, bought in December, 
priced at significantly less than the camera accessories. D&G also said Mr S hadnt 
registered any items in the calendar year he bought the camera accessories. Therefore, 
D&G didnt think the appliance limit was the reason Mr S didnt register his items. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Appliance limit
Although D&G said it didnt tell Mr S there was an appliance limit, the policy documents 
clearly state that he could register three items per calendar year. Im satisfied Mr S had been 
given incorrect information about his policy.
Impact
So, Ive gone on to think about the impact that had on Mr S. If hed registered three items in 
the calendar year already and thought he couldnt add his camera accessories to the policy, 
Id likely have upheld his complaint. However, Mr S hadnt registered any appliances.
I listened to the calls between Mr S and D&G from July and September 2022. In those calls, 
Mr S repeatedly asked to register his camera. The agent explained the cover available to 
him and why he couldnt register an item which exceeded the policys maximum purchase 
price. D&G asked whether he wanted to register other items. Mr S said he already had the 
accessories, so it was just the camera he wanted to register. 
I didnt hear anything in the two calls to indicate Mr S was putting off registering his camera 
accessories or any other item, although he did ask whether he could add items he might buy 
over Christmas.
When Mr S called D&G again in January 2023, it was to include his camera accessories 
after receiving the letter from his bank. D&G said he was out of time because hed bought 
them around 130 days earlier, exceeding the 90 days limit.
This is where the key issue lies. Mr S said he was denied cover for his accessories because 
he didnt register them within time, but he believed he was restricted to three items. But D&G 
confirmed that he didnt register any appliances in that calendar year. Therefore, whether or 
not the policy was restricted to three items, Mr S couldve added his camera accessories.
Further, I note that when Mr S did register his December purchases, they were two kitchen 
appliances with a total value of £600. Just one of his camera accessories had a purchase 
price of over £1,000.
On balance, I think its unlikely that Mr S chose not to register his camera accessories 
purchased in September, preferring to wait for his two relatively inexpensive December 
purchases. And, for that matter, purchases which he didnt register until the following 
calendar year after his bank confirmed the mistake regarding the appliance limit.
While I accept Mr S was given incorrect information about the number of appliances he 
could register, I dont think the evidence supports his claim that he didnt register his camera 
accessories in time because of that misinformation. The position was that he tried to register 
one item which was above the maximum value for cover, leaving him with the belief that he 
had three free slots still available. He didnt use those three slots at all and only registered 
two appliances in the following calendar year at the time of his complaint. Therefore, I dont 
think its fair to say anything D&G did or didnt do caused him to lose the opportunity to 
register his camera accessories.
So, for the reasons Ive given here, I dont think the incorrect information caused Mr S any 
loss and I dont plan to ask D&G to cover the items or pay compensation.   
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
D&G accepted my provisional decision.Mr S didnt agree and raised three main points:
He felt the point about his camera was exaggerated putting him in bad character.
D&Gs webpage showed a 3-item limit.
He believed the limit was per policy year and, during a call, D&G led him to think he 
was correct. If the limit was per calendar year, hed have registered his camera 
accessories, and the fact he didnt shows he was misled.
In addition, Mr S questioned whether D&G provided the full content of the calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence alongside Mr Ss comments, Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint.
Firstly, Ill address his concern about the call recordings. D&G provided its search log for 
calls from Mr Ss fixed line and mobile numbers. Its trace revealed three calls corresponding 
with the calls I listened to. Nevertheless, in light of Mr Ss concerns, Ive listened to the calls 
again. Theres no evidence that the calls have been edited and I wouldnt expect D&G to 
manipulate the evidence. Therefore, Im satisfied that I can reasonably rely on the call 
content.
Mr S is concerned about how my comments regarding his camera reflect on his character. In 
his first two calls the only discussion was about whether D&G would cover his camera under 
the policy. He bought the camera for £2,200, but the maximum cover available was £2,000. 
For clarity, Mr S didnt try to hide the cost of his camera and there was no evidence that he 
was trying to deceive D&G. He was open about what he was hoping for, which was to 
upgrade the policy to cover his camera, or limit any claim to the policy maximum on the 
understanding that he was fully aware of the limitation. My comments about the camera are 
purely for clarification of the call content.
Ive seen the evidence Mr S provided showing that D&Gs webpage confirmed a 3-item limit. 
Ive already accepted that D&Gs information was inaccurate. In his third call to D&G, Mr S 
told it about the letter from his bank confirming the change shouldve been in place since the 
previous year. D&G confirmed it had just received similar notification. So, I dont think Mr Ss 
point here is in dispute.
However, I would still need to see that D&G did something to cause Mr S to be 
disadvantaged.
Mr S provided me with a copy of the booklet his bank issued to him in July 2022. The booklet 
confirms that cover is provided for unlimited items. This suggests that he already had the 
correct information for the policy arranged by his bank.
Ive noted Mr Ss point about whether the limit was per policy year or calendar year. Its 
referred to by both the bank and D&G as a calendar year. Mr S seems to accept that he may 
have misunderstood that, but also says D&G led him to believe he was correct in his thinking 
about a 3-item limit per policy year. Theres no mention at all in the calls about policy year 
versus calendar year, so the evidence doesnt persuade me that D&G misled him.
In summary, I do understand the point Mr S is making about waiting to register items he 
expected to buy in the November and December sales which wouldve been more susceptible to damage and more likely to benefit from the extended warranty than his 
camera accessories. Mr S explained that he didnt make the purchases after all, but he didnt 
register his camera accessories because he was concerned about wasting a slot. But he 
didnt register anything at all in that year. So, based on the evidence, I cant reasonably say 
D&Gs information about the policy limit caused Mr S to lose out on the extended warranty 
benefit for his camera accessories.
As Ive not identified evidence to indicate that D&Gs misinformation caused Mr S any 
financial detriment, theres nothing for me to ask D&G to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman