DRN-3725923
The complaint
Mrs L and the estate of Mrs D complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has 
declined a claim, for damage to a retaining wall, they made under a home insurance policy.
Mrs L and the estate of Mrs D are represented in this complaint by a company, which Ill 
refer to as O. For ease in this decision, Ill just refer to O.
All references to RSA are intended to include the action of its agents.
What happened
A sandstone and slate wall at the late Mrs Ds property was found to have partially collapsed 
after a storm in January 2021. A claim was made to RSA under the buildings section of the 
insurance policy held. 
RSA instructed an engineering and surveying company to provide a report on the damage 
and its likely cause. That report said the cause of the wall collapse to be due to a build-up of 
hydrostatic pressure behind the wall over a long period of time.  RSA declined the claim 
under the storm section of the policy but did consider it under the accidental damage cover 
the policy also provided. However, it explained to O, the claim would not be met as an 
exclusion for wear and tear applied.  O complained to RSA about this decision, but it did not 
change its position. It did however recognise that it hadnt provided a good level of service 
during the course of the claim and offered £400 compensation to reflect this. 
An investigator looked at the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. She said she 
thought there had been a storm, but this wasnt the main cause of the damage. She 
explained she thought the claim met the definition of accidental damage as the damage 
happened suddenly and wouldnt have been foreseeable to the policyholders.  However, she 
didnt think RSA had done enough to demonstrate how the wall had suffered wear and tear 
causing its gradual deterioration, and so she didnt think it was fair for it to rely on the 
exclusion. So, she said she thought RSA should reconsider the claim. She did however think 
the compensation RSA had offered for the impact of the poor service it had provided was fair 
and reasonable. 
RSA provided further representations and after considering the case again, the investigator 
let O know that she now thought RSA had declined the claim correctly. It had provided 
evidence that the wall had suffered movement in the past and had been patch repaired, 
however the underlying outward rotation of the wall had not been rectified. So, she was then 
satisfied RSA were entitled to rely on the exclusion.
O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. When doing so, it 
questioned the qualifications of the individuals that had provided their opinions to RSA. It 
maintained the wall had stood for over 100 years without issue and the storm was the cause 
of the damage occurring. It disagreed the damage was foreseeable and that a wall of that 
age was naturally going to have some wear and tear to it, this doesnt mean it was the cause 
of the wall collapse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
When looking at cases relating to storm damage this service generally poses three 
questions  was there a storm? Is the damage that which is typically caused by a storm? 
And, was the storm the main cause of the damage?  Im satisfised the answers to the first 
two questions are yes. There was a sufficient amount of rainfall prior to the damage being 
noticed to suggest there were storm conditions at the time. And wall collapses can be 
caused by storm conditions. However, based on the evidence available to me, Im not 
persuaded the rainfall itself was the main reason the wall collapsed. 
The business has provided evidence of historical outward rotation of the wall and that it has 
been previously repaired. It has also provided expert evidence which provides the opinion 
that the main cause of the wall collapse was due a build-up of pressure in the soil behind the 
wall over time. The report also comments on vegetation growth between the sandstone and 
slate and comments on how this can weaken a structure over time. So based on this, Im 
satisfied the storm conditions served to highlight existing issues with the wall rather than 
being the main cause of its collapse. Because of this I think RSA has correctly declined the 
claim under the storm peril of the policy. 
RSA did consider the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy, which I think 
was the right thing to do.  I accept the damage to the wall happened suddenly and given how 
long it has stood for, I can appreciate why its collapse wasnt necessarily anticipated by the 
policyholders. However, this doesnt then mean that regardless of the condition the wall was 
in, a claim should be met. RSA cited an exclusion for wear and tear, which essentially 
means it, among other things, wont pay for damage that happens gradually. This isnt an 
unusual term as it isnt reasonable to expect insurers to pay for damage that is caused by 
maintenance issues a homeowner is normally responsible for. 
However, where an insurer cites an exclusion, it is for it to show it has been fairly applied. 
RSA instructed experts to provide a report on the cause of the damage, which I think is 
reasonable. After a site visit had been completed, a report was issued which concluded the 
main cause of the damage to the wall was pressure build up over time in the soil behind the 
wall - which eventually caused it to collapse. 
RSA has also pointed to the fact the report mentioned there was evidence of outward 
rotation of the part of the wall which remained standing, which it suggests supports its 
conclusions regarding a build-up of pressure behind the wall causing it to move. There is 
also mention of vegetation growing within the structure of the wall and that this can weaken 
a structure. 
I have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I think is most 
likely to have happened in the circumstances.  This service is an evidence-based service, 
and therefore I must consider the expert evidence that is provided and decide whether or not 
I am persuaded by it. 
Having considered everything, Im more persuaded by the evidence RSA has put forward, its 
conclusions are based on an assessment of the site and the opinion it has been provided 
with is reasoned. Without evidence of equivalent standing to the contrary, I cant conclude it is obviously wrong. 
There is evidence the wall had suffered from previous movement, so I dont think it is 
unreasonable to suggest its ability to withstand the pressure from the soil behind was 
compromised. And while the report only says vegetation can weaken a structure, not 
expressing a certainty that is what happened in this instance, the photos that have been 
provided do show a significant amount of vegetation within the structure. So Im persuaded it 
is more likely than not a fair assessment this contributed to the integrity of the wall being 
weakened. 
I understand O has questioned the qualifications of the individuals that provided advice to 
RSA, however I can see it instructed an engineering and surveying company to provide an 
assessment and opinion. So Im satisfied they had the appropriate experience in these 
matters to provide an opinion and I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to take that into 
account when making its claim decision. 
Ive also considered the response RSAs technical expert gave when explaining the decline 
of the claim and O thoughts on it. However I disagree that this indicates RSA was simply 
trying to give any reason for declining the claim in the hope one would be accepted. Rather I 
read this as a detailed explanation of the consideration given to the claim and the reasons 
for it being declined. It acknowledged all of the different variances and how they could be 
interpreted and gave a balanced response. 
Overall, having considered everything, I think RSA have declined the claim fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
RSA initially indicated to the policyholders that the claim would be accepted under the storm 
peril of the policy and said they could get quotes for repairs. However, this was an error and 
RSA later explained it would not be accepting the claim. Having reviewed the case, I 
understand how this error was made. We dont usually say a party should be held to abiding 
by a genuine mistake, and I dont think in the circumstances it would be fair to here. RSA 
have accepted it provided poor service for this and it delayed responding to correspondence. 
It offered the policyholders £400 compensation. I think this fairly reflects the trouble and 
upset that would have been caused so I wont be asking it to increase this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mrs L and the estate of Mrs Ds complaint against Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman