DRN-2175995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
transactions were made on their bank account without their authorisation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a joint bank account with HSBC. In December 2019, a number of 
transactions were made on their account, which they say they did not authorise. HSBC has 
refunded the money taken, and this service has not considered whether the transactions 
were authorised or not. 
The transactions occurred over a period of a week between 17 to 24 December 2019. On 
the last of these days, HSBC identified transactions as suspicious and a block was 
generated on Mr and Mrs Bs account.
Mrs B first learnt of this a couple of days later when she tried to make transactions of her 
own. She contacted HSBC and, although further action was required by Mrs B to have all the 
transactions refunded, a full refund was made that day.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that HSBC did not prevent these transactions occurring in the 
first place, and that they were not notified that the transactions had happened or that their 
account had been blocked. 
HSBC has said that its fraud detection system did not identify the initial transactions as they 
did not match fraud trends that were being seen at that time. HSBC also said that its normal 
process is to send customers a text message alerting them of the issue, but that this was not 
possible as it did not have a mobile phone number for Mr and Mrs B. HSBC has further said 
that it was due to call Mr and Mrs B, but that transaction declines are worked in 
chronological order and this list had not reached Mr and Mrs B prior to them contacting the 
bank. HSBC indicated that the events happening around the Christmas period had an impact 
on this timeframe. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
felt that, by refunding the transactions, HSBCs response was appropriate. HSBC had not 
been able to contact Mr and Mrs B prior to their call due to the number of other customers it 
was contacting, and the investigator felt that some delay over the Christmas period was to 
be expected. He also didnt think that HSBC could be held responsible for Mr and Mrs Bs 
decision not to provide the bank with their mobile phone number or that it could take Mr and 
Mrs Bs personal circumstances into account, when it had not been made aware of these. 
Our investigator sympathised with Mr and Mrs B over the upset they had experienced as a 
result of fraudulent transactions being made on their account. But he considered the bank 
had measures in place to try and prevent this, and he did not consider the bank had acted 
inappropriately in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and so their complaint has been passed to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experiencing fraud is an understandably upsetting event. But, unfortunately, banks are 
unable to prevent all such transactions occurring. Banks are ultimately responsible for 
covering the cost of fraudulent transactions, so it is in their own interests (as well as those of 
their customers) to prevent as much fraud as possible. However, this also needs to be 
balanced against the needs of customers to easily use their own money. 
Mr and Mrs B initially raised concerns that the transactions seemingly occurred a great 
distance from their own home. However, the transactions actually occurred online. And they 
were also made during a period when Mr and Mrs B were also, like many customers, 
carrying out their own online transactions and Christmas shopping. This goes some way to 
explaining why HSBC didnt initially identify these transactions as concerning. 
Some of the transactions were high value. And I agree that this does seem largely out of 
character with Mr and Mrs Bs general spending patterns. But again, given the time of year, 
such transactions are not generally uncommon. 
HSBC is required to have measures in place to try to prevent fraud. It has referred to its own 
system and said that this relies on a combination of fraud trends and spending patterns. In 
this case, these measures did not identify the early transactions as, according to HSBC, they 
did not follow the fraud trends that were at that time being seen. So, whilst these 
transactions were not prevented by the measures HSBC had in place, I have seen nothing to 
lead me to uphold this complaint on that basis.
I do note that Mr and Mrs B would like their bank to provide an individually tailored 
monitoring of their account. However, no retail bank commonly provides such a facility and I 
cant say it is unreasonable of HSBC not to either. 
It would have been preferable had Mr and Mrs B been informed of the transactions as soon 
as HSBC identified those that were of concern. However, HSBCs automated method of 
providing such notification via text message was not possible here as Mr and Mrs B have 
chosen not to share their mobile number with HSBC. As such, HSBC had to follow the 
manual route of notification, which is not as prompt. And given the transactions were 
identified by the bank on Christmas Eve, I do not find it surprising that no phone call was 
made to Mr and Mrs B within the couple of days before they called the bank themselves. 
Again, it would have been preferable for this call to have happened, but I dont find it 
unreasonable that the bank didnt make the call within this period. 
HSBC had blocked the card to protect Mr and Mrs Bs account, which is an appropriate 
action. Mrs B has expressed concern about potentially trying to shop in-store without 
knowing this. But I am unable to direct the bank to pay compensation for a hypothetical 
situation that did not arise. Similarly, I am unable to say HSBC should have acted differently 
due to Mrs Bs personal circumstances, when the bank wasnt made aware of these. 
I do understand that this episode has impacted Mr and Mrs Bs confidence in the safety of 
their money. However, the cause of this is the actions of the third party responsible for 
carrying out the transactions. And, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am 
persuaded that HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman