DRN-3580491
The complaint
Ms H and Mr B complain on behalf of the estate of Mr H, collectively referred to as the 
complainants, about Lloyds Bank PLC, referred to as Lloyds or the business. 
In short, they say that the Lloyds Bereavement Manager (Mr S) gave financial advice  
which they acted upon  resulting in a potential inheritance tax (IHT) liability. Overall, theyre 
unhappy about the way Lloyds handled the administration of the estate. To put things right, 
theyd like Lloyds to agree to cover the future IHT liability if it arises. 
Theyre being assisted by Mr E, a financial adviser.  
What happened
Mr H and his wife Mrs H held a Scottish Widows Flexible Option Bond (bond)  held in a 
discounted gift trust (DGT)  to assist with tax planning. It was recorded that they wanted to 
reduce their IHT liability for their daughter. 
In a recommendation/suitability letter dated April 2008, it was confirmed that you will take an 
immediate income of 4% per annum paid monthly in arrears for the rest of your lives. From 
May 2008, Mr and Mrs H took regular withdrawals of £866.66 from the bond. 
In December 2018, Mr H sadly died. In January 2019, Mr S on behalf of Lloyds visited his 
family to assist with administering his assets.  
The complainants say that it was during this meeting that Mr S gave financial advice, 
recommending that Mrs S stop taking withdrawals from the bond, to allow it to grow. They 
also say that Mr S told them the wording to use in a letter when notifying the bond provider.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said that no recommendation was made by Mr 
S, and his role was limited to performing an administrative function only. This is supported by 
his meeting notes made at the time. It also disagrees that Mr S dictated a letter to the bond 
provider for the purpose of notifying the bond provider no income was going to be taken. 
The complainants disagreed with the businesss response and referred the complaint to our 
service. In short, they say its unlikely that Mr S wouldve recorded any advice given his role 
 nevertheless they acted on his recommendation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In 2008, it was recorded that Mr and Mrs Hs prime consideration was tax planning. 
The advice to take regular withdrawals aimed to deal with this, and thats why from 
May 2008, they took regular withdrawals from the bond. 
Whilst she appreciates what the complainants say about Mr H being a traditional 
man and not discussing his financial plans with Ms H and Mr B, Mrs H was present 
and involved in the financial meeting with Lloyds. And as appointed trustees, Ms H 
and Mr B would be expected to understand their responsibilities regarding the trust. 
The key policy documentation explained the tax implication of the bond. The Key 
Features Document (KFD) confirmed All or part of the value of your Bond is included 
in your estate. Inheritance tax may have to be paid on the Bond. It also had a 
section dedicated to tax information where it explained tax liabilities and matters of 
equal importance. 
In the circumstances, she was satisfied that there was discussion about the 
importance of the bond withdrawals and that this was linked to tax planning when Mr 
and Mrs H met with the adviser. 
After Mr Hs death in 2018 the terms and conditions, the bereavement manager 
biography and the administration checklist were all sent to the complainants, making 
clear the duty and role of Mr S. The documentation made clear that if tax planning 
and financial advice was needed, hed make a referral to someone suitable  in other 
words he couldnt give financial advice. 
The administration checklist showed that Mr S had an administrative function and not 
an advisory one.    
The documents sent were headed estate administration, showing the scope of Mr Ss 
service none of which included financial advice. 
Its likely that many things were discussed during the meeting with Mr S, and it was a 
difficult time for Mrs H and the complainants  but she cant safely say that advice 
was given. 
Since the withdrawals were stopped, they havent been reinstated despite this 
complaint which suggests that perhaps Mrs H is content with this course of action. 
The complainants disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman 
decision. In summary, Mr E made the following key points:
When withdrawals are stopped from a DGT, this triggers a Chargeable Lifetime 
Transfer as the investors have given up future withdrawals. The value of these future 
withdrawals is based on the life expectancy of the individual. Reinstating the 
withdrawals would not affect the potential charge to IHT and Mrs H would still have to 
live for seven years from the time the withdrawals were stopped, in order for there to 
be no IHT. 
The complainants in this instance were unaware of the issue until taking financial 
advice in 2021 and were uncomfortable with reinstating the withdrawals.  
Ms H is adamant that she recalls the conversation with Mr S and his comment I am 
not supposed to give advice but. She also says that the response from Lloyds was 
a total fabrication. Having had many conversations with Ms H, he is happy to believe 
her version of events.    
Its likely that Mr S had written his report on the meeting knowing what he should and 
shouldnt say. 
The complaint is based on the consequences of Mrs H surviving (or not surviving) 
seven years, and its yet to be seen if shell live up to her mid-90s  so the IHT 
liability wont be known.
Mr Ss notes arent an appropriate way of side-stepping his actions which are 
probably based on his ignorance of the tax implications of his recommendation. He 
was a regulated financial adviser for a period of three years, perhaps he gave up this 
role before the current higher standards were introduced. 
The complaint should be reviewed on the basis that retail customers dont keep 
contemporaneous notes and the bank have the opportunity to record an account of 
a meeting knowing how it will be read in the event of a complaint.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr E says, Im not persuaded that 
Lloyds behaved unreasonably. In other words, I cant safely say that Mr S said anything that 
amounted to financial advice, such that this complaint should be upheld. Therefore, I cant 
say that the business is responsible for paying any future IHT liability that might arise as a 
result of Mrs H ceasing to take withdrawals from the bond.   
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Ms H and Mr B have about this matter. Theyve provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope that they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, and its not necessary 
for me to answer every question raised in order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr E, and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Its not entirely clear what exactly was (or wasnt) said by Mr S during the 2019 meeting. Its 
possible he said that Mrs H didnt need any additional income purely from an income point of 
view, so it probably wasnt necessary for her to take an income from the bond from that 
perspective. In other words, she didnt need the additional income for her day to day needs. 
If Mr S did say something of that nature, I agree with Lloyds that it was said  more likely 
than not  as a matter of fact and in good faith. In other words, given her circumstances she 
didnt need additional income and had access to enough money for emergencies. I dont 
think this information of itself amounted to financial advice as envisaged by the 
complainants. In any case, Im conscious that it was a matter for Mrs H whether, or not, she 
continued to draw and income from the bond, or cease taking an income altogether. 
Im mindful that in 2008 it was recorded that Mr and Mrs Hs prime consideration was tax 
planning, and the advice to take regular withdrawals aimed to deal with this  and thats why 
they took regular withdrawals from the bond. Based on what the parties say, it seems that 
nothing Mr S (may) have said, invalidated the 2008 advice. I note at no point did he say that 
it had. 
In other words, given the basis upon which the advice was given and implemented in 2008  
with tax planning/IHT liability being the overriding objective  I cant safely say that all that 
changed as a result of something said by the Mr S in 2019. 
I note at no point did Mr S say that his meeting was to supersede or nullify any of the (paid) 
advice they received in 2008. Particularly as it was made clear that Mr Ss role was only 
administrative and not advisory. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im not persuaded that whatever Mr S is alleged to 
have said is financial advice, it wasnt intended as financial advice and ought not reasonably 
to have been interpreted as such. 
If Mrs H and or the complainants interpreted Mr Ss comments as financial advice  without 
considering the consequences of doing so in respect of the 2008 advice or consulting an 
actuary  its not something I can blame Lloyds for. Im satisfied they chose to act on the 
statement and did so at their own volition and risk. 
Im also mindful that no fact find was carried out or suitability report provided. Although the 
absence of these documents doesnt of itself mean that advice wasnt provided, in this 
instance the absence of these key documents supports the position that it wasnt.  
I note Mr E makes clear that this sort of action  stopping withdrawals from a bond held in a 
DGT  would require the input of an actuary, so its not clear why this wasnt sought by Mrs 
H or the complainants before taking such action. In the circumstances, and on balance, I 
think they ought reasonably to have known thered be consequences for changing the way of 
doing things since 2008. 
Its arguable that Ms H and Mr B ought reasonably to have questioned any such discussion 
given their responsibilities as trustees, and not gone ahead or allowed Mrs H to do so 
without taking into account how this might impact any future IHT liability on the estate of Mr 
H. 
Based on what Mr E says, it seems that Mr H knew what he was doing with the DGT but 
never really involved Mrs H, so she probably wasnt fully appraised of what was going on. If 
that was the case, her lack of understanding/appreciation isnt something that I can blame 
the business for. 
In other words, her lack of understanding of the bigger picture  because Mr H never 
involved her in any of his financial decisions  doesnt excuse her or even the complainants 
from making further enquires before going ahead and stopping the withdrawals from the 
bond. 
The above notwithstanding, I note Mrs H was present during the relevant meeting in 2008 
and therefore knew or ought reasonably to have known that the DGT and the regular income 
related to IHT mitigation. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that 
she had no idea about the IHT liability, even if Mr H chose not to involve her in their 
finances. Therefore, and on balance, I dont think the decision to simply stop the withdrawals 
based on an alleged statement was reasonable and something for which the business is 
responsible, even if there is in due course likely to be an adverse impact on the estate.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the decision to stop taking 
money from the DGT was made by Mrs H and/or the complainants, of their own volition and 
not based on any financial advice from Lloyds. 
Its possible they did so, based on what was said by Mr S, but that doesnt of itself mean that 
they were advised to do so, or that a recommendation was made. In my opinion, and on 
balance, it sounds like they did what they wanted to do  without getting financial advice or 
speaking to an accountant/actuary  based on a conversation that was probably taken out of 
context.  
Despite what Mr E says, I simply cant ignore the fact that Mr S wasnt authorised to give 
financial advice, and its unlikely that he wouldve. Irrespective of whether or not he knew 
about the DGT/its purpose, Im satisfied he knew the parameters of his role, and this is why he probably said Im not supposed to give advice as suggested by Mr E, if indeed he said it 
at all. In the circumstances I dont understand why Mrs H (or the complainants) would 
consider acting on the statement of someone who isnt supposed to give financial advice, 
and all the documentation makes this clear too. Im conscious the documentation made clear 
that if tax planning and financial advice was needed, hed make a referral to someone 
suitable  in other words he couldnt give financial advice.
Despite what the complainants say, Im aware that there is no such advice reference in Mr 
Ss contemporaneous notes from 2019, or anything remotely of that nature. Therefore, in the 
circumstances and on balance, Im not able to safely say that he offered advice as 
suggested by the complainants and Mr E. 
I appreciate what Ms H says about her recollection, and whilst I dont doubt her sincerity, in 
this instance, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that her recollections from 2019 are 
accurate or correct. An honest recollection can be a mistaken recollection, and I think thats 
what has happened here, given everything that was going on  I note she has no notes from 
the time either to assist her in her recollection. 
The suggestion that the adviser offered financial advice, then drew up his notes to reflect 
that he didnt, on the slim chance that there may be a complaint at some point in the future, 
is simply not a conclusion Im able to reach in this case.  
I note that despite cancelling the withdrawals, they havent been reinstated throughout this 
time  Im assuming not doing so has enabled the bond to grow. Regardless of what Mr E 
says about the seven years, it nevertheless wouldve been a start in an effort to mitigate any 
future IHT liability in any event. Its arguable that the complainants are content with this 
course of action after all, despite this complaint and any unhappiness about a future 
potential IHT liability. 
I appreciate Ms H and Mr B  on behalf of the estate of Mr H  will be thoroughly unhappy 
that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their 
frustration, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything. On the face of the available evidence, 
and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman