DRN-2714254
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim, that he said he didnt authorise them to make. 
What happened
Mr M said he hadnt signed any instructions for Allay to pursue PPI claims on his behalf. But 
said hed made an on-line enquiry on 13 July 2019 about such claims, but this hadnt been 
with Allay. 
In June 2020 Mr M said he was surprised to receive a compensation offer from one of his 
lenders Ill call B . The confirmation about his successful claim referred to Allay which also 
surprised him as he said he hadnt authorised them to make a claim on his behalf. He said 
Allay are now asking him to pay their fee for his successful claim. He complained to Allay.
In July 2019, Allay said Mr M electronically signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing them 
to pursue a PPI claim on his behalf  to his lenders including B. And that their terms and 
conditions were attached to the LoA. On receipt of the LoA they passed Mr Ms details to his 
lenders for them to check if he had any PPI policies with them. And they updated Mr M by 
text message and email.
Allay said they also asked Mr M to complete a PPI questionnaire to support his claim that 
hed been mis-sold PPI. And the questionnaire was completed and returned to them. In June 
2020 B told Allay Mr Ms claim had been successful. As Mr M hadnt cancelled his 
agreement with them, they asked him to pay their success fee. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Allays response. He said theyd given conflicting information. And 
the signature on the LoA wasnt his. Also, the information in the PPI questionnaire wasnt 
accurate. Mr M reiterated he hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf to make a claim for 
mis-sold PPI. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said  it was more likely that Mr M had authorised Allay to make a claim for 
mis-sold PPI on his behalf. And that theyd submitted his claim which had been successful. 
She said Allays fees were justified.
Mr M didnt agree and said he hadnt signed the LoA  and hadnt authorised Allay to act for 
him. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration as he doesnt agree that he asked Allay to look into 
whether he had any PPI, and he said the information they used to progress his claim wasnt 
correct. He strongly feels that he didnt supply the information theyd used and the signature 
on the LoA wasnt his.
While the signature Mr M has given to this service doesnt resemble the signature on the 
LoA, it isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a 
criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an 
alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We 
dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and 
weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is 
the case here, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. So, I need 
to determine whether its more likely that Mr M authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he 
had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him. 
Its not in dispute that Mr M was looking into PPI claims the day Allay said the LoA was 
signed and submitted. Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made 
in July 2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr M 
has given this service. The application also needed details of Mr Ms lenders, and these 
details were  provided. So, on balance I think  Mr M completed the on-line form as the 
information was specific to him.
On completion of the application, an LoA would be generated, populated with this 
information. Allay has said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. 
And I can see a Welcome to Allay letter was also generated on the same day that says:
Good news! As you have already signed your electronic documents, we have been able to 
get a head start and have submitted queries to each lender on your behalf. Please now sign 
and return the enclosed paper Letter(s) of Authority.
As I think Mr M completed the application and hes said he received the paper LoAs for him 
to sign. Ive no reason to doubt he wouldnt have also received the Welcome letter which 
says a LoA had already been signed electronically. So, on balance I think Mr M would have 
added a signature to the form. 
With the LoA, Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA 
Mr M had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
And in mid-August B told Allay that theyd found a PPI policy for Mr M that started in July 
1992. From Allays records I can also see an email was sent to Mr M (the same e mail 
address provided to us) that says Great News. And explains that PPI had been found. This 
doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be successful, as the claim needs to show 
the PPI policy was mis-sold.  Within this notification there would have been a link to a PPI 
questionnaire to provide supporting information for the PPI claim. 
Allays records show the PPI questionnaire was returned in September 2019, and an email 
was sent to Mr M the next day as well as a text message (to the number Mr M has also 
given this service, ending *1290) confirming receipt and that the details had been passed to 
B.Mr M has said the information in the questionnaire wasnt accurate in relation to his 
employment and marital status. For the employment the name given relates to part of Mr Ms 
email address. Mr M has said his time employed is wrong as the questionnaire says six 
years, and hes been employed for over 30 years. But I think the question was relating to his 
time employed when the PPI policy stated in 1992. And I cant see a question on the form 
about marital status, the reference to single relates to the type of PPI policy cover  single or 
joint.
Allays records also show an update test message was sent, again to the number ending 
*1290 in December 2019. And in March 2020, Allay asked B for an update on Mr Ms claim. 
B responded to Allay to confirm the complaint was still being investigated. 
I can see in June 2020  B sent the offer of compensation to both Mr M and Allay. I think this 
shows B accepted Allay had authority to represent Mr M in making his PPI claim, and they 
werent solely dealing with Mr M. So, Im satisfied, on balance that Mr M authorised Allay to 
act on his behalf in pursuing a PPI claim for him.
I will now look to see whether Mr M asked Allay to stop working for him. 
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us.
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr M asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or 
after the 14-day cooling off period. And despite still getting updates I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr M asked Allay to stop or question them as to why they were still contacting 
him. The claim may not have been formalised according to Mr M, but its not enough that he 
simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on 
his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd submitted his PPI claim to 
B and the claim was successful.
The agreement Mr M had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
And Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim 
they submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr Ms claim as their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. And his claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr M agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mr M could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, but, on balance, Im satisfied that Allay was 
authorised by Mr M to act on his behalf and his claims were successful. This means Allay 
can charge their fees for these claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman