DRN-3359701
The complaint
Mr P said Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as GeorgeBanco.com, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out two loans from ELL as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Monthly 
InstalmentsAmountMonthly 
Repayment*Total repayable
1 5th April 
201636 £2,000 £97.43 £3,507.48
2 29th April 
201636 £3,000 £146.14 £5,261.04
Mr P said that by approving loans that were unaffordable, ELL was responsible for him 
getting into further debt and causing him financial hardship as a result. 
After taking out loan 1 to buy a vehicle, Mr P approached ELL again just over three weeks 
later to borrow some extra money. Loan 2 was used to settle loan 1 and also provide the 
extra money Mr P had asked for.
These were guarantor loans which means they were potentially payable by the person who 
had agreed to be responsible for the loans if Mr P failed to make the repayments he owed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint about loan 1 should be upheld. She said 
ELLs checks didnt show anything concerning, so there was nothing to prompt ELL to do 
any further checks and the loan looked affordable according to the affordability assessment 
it carried out. So she felt ELL had made a fair lending decision based on the information it 
gathered when it provided loan 1.
But our investigator said that ELL shouldve been prompted to do further checks when Mr P 
had come back for a bigger loan within the space of less than a month and if further checks 
had been completed, ELL would most likely have seen that Mr P couldnt repay loan 2 in a 
sustainable way. 
Our investigator also told ELL that she didnt feel she had seen evidence to suggest that 
there had been any significant and sustained improvement in Mr Ps financial circumstances 
after loan 1. She wasnt persuaded that loan 2  which increased Mr Ps indebtedness  was 
likely to have been deemed sustainable and affordable after more thorough checks 
(although she didnt say anything more about why she thought this or what further checks 
would have revealed). Our investigator set out the steps she felt ELL should take to put 
things right for Mr P. 
Mr P didnt respond to our investigators view but ELL disagreed. It mainly said that as the 
two loans were taken out so close together, further checks would have shown the exact 
same thing, which our investigator agreed showed loan 1 was affordable. So ELL said it was 
struggling to understand why our investigator thought loan 2 was unaffordable. ELL asked 
for an ombudsmans review. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, I agree with the investigator that checks done for loan 1 were proportionate 
and didnt show anything that ought to have led ELL to make a different lending decision. 
I also dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 2. However I havent currently seen 
enough evidence to enable me to say that better checks would have shown that loan 2 
wouldnt be sustainable for Mr P. Ill explain why I say this.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Mr P. Its rules 
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged ELL to lend 
responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether Mr P could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner - sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or check.
Checks had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying the credit 
sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In other words, it 
wasnt enough for ELL to think only about the likelihood of it getting its money back - it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
- the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr P and Ive considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ps loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable 
way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?ELL asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loans including details of 
his income and his monthly spending. It told us it checked his salary using a third-party 
income verification tool. It reviewed his credit file at the time of both applications to 
understand his credit history and existing commitments. It also relied on statistical 
information and factored into its calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly 
expenditure someone in Mr Ps position might reasonably expect to pay according to 
national UK averages worked out by the Office for National Statistics. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loans. 
Based on the information it gathered, ELL concluded Mr P would be left with ample spare 
cash after making his ELL loan repayments and so he shouldve been comfortably able to 
afford loans 1 and 2. 
Loan 1
ELL verified Mr Ps declared income and recorded that his monthly earnings were around 
£1,850. It adjusted his living costs according to what hed said about his circumstances. The 
results from ELLs credit check showed he had some outstanding credit and broadly that he 
managed those accounts reasonably well. 
I think its fair to say that it wasnt really clear why Mr P needed to rely on borrowed money to 
the extent ELL could see, bearing in mind that Mr P told ELL he had been in his job for more 
than 5 years and was living with his parents and paying only £100 board and £400 on his 
other monthly outgoings. 
But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. Overall, 
given that this was Mr Ps first loan with ELL, the monthly repayment was a relatively small 
percentage of his monthly income and hed given a plausible reason for needing this loan, 
I dont think there was anything in the information ELL gathered that ought to have led it to a 
different lending decision. 
It follows that I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr P.
As far as I can see, Mr P hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1
Loan 2
Mr P returned to ELL to increase his borrowing just over three weeks after taking out loan 1. 
He asked for an additional £1,000 which he told ELL was to pay for a football season ticket. 
ELL carried out the same affordability checks as it had for loan 1 and, as it says, Mr Ps 
financial situation, unsurprisingly, looked much the same overall. At least according to the 
information ELL had gathered about his income and expenditure, Mr P still shouldve had 
ample spare cash left each month to easily afford the increased monthly repayments for this 
loan. 
But, I am concerned that:
- there were some notable differences in the information Mr P provided in support of 
his loans  despite the fact this application was made less than a month after hed 
filled in an application for loan 1, Mr P provided different figures on his application for 
loan 2 for his rent and his estimated monthly outgoings. He also said hed been with 
his employer more than 6 years. Whilst I appreciate that ELL didnt base its 
affordability assessment just on what Mr P had said, I think these discrepancies ought to have caused ELL to be concerned more generally about whether it could 
safely rely on information Mr P was providing about his finances, in particular his 
spending, without taking steps to verify what he had told the lender
- it also seems unlikely to me that someone with the amount of disposable income that 
ELL thought Mr P shouldve had would need to rely on taking out yet more expensive 
borrowing. Although ELL has mentioned that Mr P returned to borrow when an 
unexpected  expense came up, I dont think its very likely that buying a season ticket 
wouldve really been something Mr P hadnt planned for or didnt know in advance he 
would have to pay for  and ELL hasnt shown me that it asked any more searching 
questions about Mr Ps reasons for needing this loan
Overall, Im not satisfied that the checks ELL did went far enough. Given the significantly 
increased loan amount (loan 2 was half as big again as loan 1) and the lack of clarity 
concerning Mr Ps actual financial situation (especially since hed provided conflicting 
information and ELL was mostly relying on general averages rather than having any clear 
understanding of Mr Ps particular circumstances and finances) I think ELL needed to carry 
out more in-depth checks. To my mind, ELLs checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Ps financial circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so it 
could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable over the term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks ELL did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, thats 
not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I also need to be able to say that if 
ELL had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, these would have shown ELL that 
Mr P couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what ELL 
would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. So, because of this, 
I am unable to safely conclude that Mr P was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
This is why Im not upholding his complaint about loan 2.
Our investigator didnt recommend that ELL should pay any additional redress. Mr P hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think ELL acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr P in any other way. So Im not planning on awarding redress for 
any other reasons.
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr P but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. If Mr P would like help to manage 
his finances or to speak to someone about his situation generally, theres more information 
about how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I asked for responses to my provisional decision to be sent to me by today. 
Mr P hasnt sent me anything further in response to my provisional decision. 
ELL has confirmed that it accepts what I've said in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman