DRN-3096860
The complaint
Mrs H, represented by her husband Mr H, complains that Financial Administration Services 
Limited (Fidelity) failed to respond to emails and calls, inaccurately reflected the amount of 
cash held on her account in respect of service fee payments, and made outgoing payments 
to her that were inconsistent with payments made in similar circumstances to other members 
of her family. 
What happened
As noted, Mrs Hs complaint concerns several issues related to her investment ISA held with 
Fidelity. Mr H also holds an account with Fidelity, as do other family members, and he has 
authority in respect of all the accounts. Hes made a separate complaint concerning similar 
issues, which has been dealt with by this service under a difference reference. 
These circumstances mean there is unavoidably some overlap of issues and I should 
highlight that, as this complaint relates solely to Mrs Hs account, limited consideration can 
be given here to some of the issues raised as they relate to other accounts. I appreciate this 
sounds rather complicated and I will try not to worsen the situation. But I hope Mrs H, and 
Mr H, understand why we must take the approach we have. Im aware that a resolution has 
been reached in respect of Mr Hs complaint, and I hope that has provided some 
reassurance.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint and, stressing that he was looking solely at 
her circumstances, he didnt feel that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in brief:
It appeared that where Mrs Hs investments had been queried, Fidelity had generally 
made contact within a reasonable time frame. Examples being two calls made in 
2019 by Mrs H where information was provided. 
Fidelity had on occasion offered to improve accessibility, but Mrs H appeared to have 
been happy to receive information about her investment through the post.
It may have been that Fidelitys policy of not using email, as it considers it not to be a 
secure form of communication, caused some complications. But that was a 
reasonable policy to adopt and a matter for its discretion. 
Statements had been sent to Mrs H correctly at appropriate times. 
In respect of the account fee situation, regulatory changes in 2015 meant that 
Fidelity, along with other providers, had to change the way in which they charge for 
services. Fidelity introduced a facility for holding cash on account to pay service fees, 
and there was nothing to suggest that Mrs H had been given incorrect information 
about the amount of cash held in her account. 
The issue of differences in payments made to the various family members would be 
dealt with under Mr Hs complaint, as it wasnt possible to consider the other 
accounts in respect of this complaint. 
Mr H, on Mrs Hs behalf, didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
look at everything again and make a final decision. As such, the matter was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
As noted, Im having to look very specifically in this decision at Mrs Hs dealings with Fidelity. 
As a family there have clearly been many more dealings, and issues relating to these have 
been dealt with under Mr Hs complaint because of his authority to act. So, Im limited in 
what I can say and what I can usefully add to the reasoning and findings already set out by 
the investigator. This includes the issue of different amounts being paid to family members, 
which has been dealt with as part of Mr Hs complaint.
In respect of Mrs Hs account, it would appear that on occasions where Fidelity has been 
communicating with Mrs H directly it has done so in a reasonable manner. As noted, the 
email situation may have caused some difficulties, but it does appear that Mrs H has at least 
some on-line access, so she would be able to make use of Fidelitys secure messaging 
service, which might help matters. 
Im satisfied Fidelity notified Mrs H about the changes to how its fees would be paid, and the 
reasons for the changes. Further, since these changes were made there doesnt seem to 
have been any misinformation provided about the amount of cash held on her account, 
which has been used to pay the account fees since January 2020. 
Fidelity has also explained that there is now a Cash Management Account facility that can 
be used for the payment of account fees and this is beneficial as it means the cash amounts 
arent counted towards ISA allowances. So, overall, I dont think that Mrs H has suffered any 
disadvantage as a result of the changes in fee payment. 
In closing, I very much hope that matters relating to Mrs Hs account are now a bit clearer 
and some reassurance has been provided by the information given by Fidelity and this 
service. Im sure that if any further concerns arise, Fidelity will be able to provide help and 
guidance where necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman