DRN-1629128
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Barclays Bank UK Plc dealt with his request to change his 
address. 
What happened
Mr O holds various accounts with Barclays. On 4 March 2019 he contacted Barclays to 
change his address on all accounts save for his mortgage and mortgage current account, 
which he said should remain registered to his former address. 
Later the same month Mr O said he received a mortgage current account statement at his 
current address. This should have been sent to his previous address so he contacted 
Barclays to remind it that it shouldnt have changed the address for his mortgage and 
mortgage current account. Barclays amended the address for these accounts in light of this 
discussion. 
On 7 May 2019 Mr O opened an ISA via telephone banking. He wanted to transfer funds into 
this new ISA from his existing cash ISA, which he held elsewhere. Barclays said that to 
initiate the transfer it would need to send his existing ISA provider a signed copy of Mr Os 
Transfer-in Authority Form. So it said it would send him the documentation he needed to 
sign in the post. Mr O asked the adviser to send these documents to him at his current 
address, which they confirmed they would.
On 31 May 2019 Mr O still hadnt received any forms from Barclays so he contacted it to 
chase these up. During this call a call handler offered to send the forms out again. He 
noticed the address on the documentation was Mr Os previous address. So, he changed 
this. Mr O queried whether the forms had already been posted to his former address. But he 
was advised that nothing had been sent. 
Afterwards, Mr O discovered that Barclays had posted documentation about his ISA to his 
former address. This address was occupied by his ex wife. So, Mr O was caused distress by 
what had happened. He was also concerned that Barclays had misled him during his 
discussion on 31 May and breached data protection. So, he complained to Barclays about 
what had happened.
After Barclays investigated, it upheld Mr Os complaint. It accepted it had posted 
documentation relating to Mr Os ISA to his former address and that hed been given 
incorrect information during his telephone conversation on 31 May. Barclays apologised for 
these errors and offered Mr O £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused. It also stated it had provided appropriate feedback and taken steps to prevent this 
error repeating itself.
But Mr O wasnt happy with how Barclays proposed to resolve his complaint and rejected its 
compensation offer. He didnt think it adequately reflected the trouble and upset hed 
experienced and thought it should increase its offer. As Barclays wasnt prepared to do that 
Mr O referred his complaint to our service.Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and, while they empathised with him, they 
didnt think that Barclays needed to do anything more here. They thought that £100 
compensation was appropriate and fair. But Mr O disagreed and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr O experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint. But, having thought about everything he and Barclays have said, 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Mr O will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
First of all Ill address Mr Os concerns regarding a breach of data protection. While I 
understand that he feels theres been a breach of data protection here I should explain that 
its not our role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. Thats the 
role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). So, I wont be commenting on this part 
of Mr Os complaint as this issue falls outside of our jurisdiction.
Barclays has already accepted responsibility for what happened. So, the issue here is 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive 
considered things from both sides. 
Mr O had contacted Barclays before he applied for his ISA account and instructed it to 
change his address on all accounts save for those relating to his mortgage and mortgage 
current account. It was reasonable for Mr O to expect Barclays to carry out his instructions 
correctly. But it didnt and it sent communication about his ISA to his former address. 
Barclays shouldnt have made this error and it accepted this in its final response to Mr O.
It then, however, made a second error in that it told Mr O it hadnt sent correspondence 
about his ISA to the wrong address when it had. Again, Barclays accepted responsibility for 
its mistake.
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given what happened here. 
Barclays has already offered to compensate Mr O £100 for the impact its mistakes had. So, 
the only issues for me to decide are whether Barclays should do anything more, or offer 
further compensation.
Mr O doesnt think the offer Barclays has made adequately reflects his inconvenience and 
experience. He said he was caused distress and worry by what happened and became 
concerned that his ex-wife might open confidential mail about his financial affairs. And I dont 
dispute any of that. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Barclays to 
apologise for what happened here, which its already done. I would have also ordered it to 
pay compensation for the trouble and upset Mr O was caused.
In thinking about whether the compensation Barclays has already offered is fair Ive taken a 
number of things into consideration. Im persuaded that this was all resolved relatively easily 
and quickly without Mr O needing to spend a great deal of time communicating with 
Barclays. I appreciate that Mr O felt misled initially by Barclays. But Im satisfied it accepted 
responsibility for both errors quickly and candidly in its final response. To recognise all of this, I think a modest amount of compensation is fair here. Having 
thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr O, Im satisfied that the £100 already 
offered by Barclays is a reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach in similar 
scenarios. While Mr O may disagree with me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the 
impact Barclays errors had.
I can see that Mr O told our investigator that if his wife had opened the post Barclays had 
incorrectly sent to his former address it could have caused additional difficulties. Mr O hasnt 
told our service his wife has read correspondence about his ISA. And, while I appreciate that 
Mr O is, understandably, concerned by what couldve happened, our service can only award 
compensation where a business has made a mistake which has impacted on a consumer. 
We can only look at what did happen. So, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Barclays 
to pay compensation for something that didnt happen.
Ive seen evidence that confirms that Barclays has now correctly changed Mr Os address. 
And I can also see its offered feedback to the call handler who gave incorrect information to 
Mr O over the telephone in May. This all persuades me that Barclays has taken reasonable 
steps to prevent this error from happening again. 
I realise Mr O will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr O any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman