DRN-2039185
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank plc mis-sold her an interest only mortgage in 2009.
What happened
In 2009, Mrs M applied for a mortgage with Cheltenham & Gloucester. The mortgage was 
later transferred to TSB, who have taken responsibility for this complaint. So for ease, Ill 
refer to TSB throughout. 
Mrs M took out this mortgage to purchase the property she was already living in under the 
Right to Buy scheme. She applied to TSB directly, and took out an interest only mortgage 
over a six year term. Mrs M has told us that her intention was for her son (Mr M) to take over 
the mortgage once he had finished his education and was in full time employment, but she 
would always continue to live in the property. Shes told us she was given assurances by 
TSB that the mortgage could be extended after the initial term if needed, and that Mrs M 
could continue to live in the property if it was later sold to Mr M.
The mortgage term ended in 2015, but Mr M wasnt in a position to apply for a mortgage as 
he was still studying. TSB extended the mortgage a couple of times until 2018, when Mrs M 
and her son were successful in applying for a joint mortgage.
Mr M complained to TSB on behalf of Mrs M about the sale of the mortgage. He said that 
TSB were negligent in lending this mortgage when they knew Mrs M intended to remain 
living in the property beyond the end of the term. 
TSB explained that the mortgage was sold on a non-advised basis, so they didnt provide 
any recommendations during the sale. They also stated that the mortgage documents from 
the time state that the sale of property would be used as the repayment vehicle for the 
mortgage. So they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service, and TSB gave us their consent to consider it 
despite the relevant time limits. Our investigator looked into things, and explained that as this 
was a non-advised sale, it wasnt TSBs responsibility to ensure the mortgage was suitable 
for Mrs M. He thought TSB had treated Mrs M fairly once the mortgage term had expired and 
so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So the 
complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and regulations that were in place at the time this 
mortgage was sold, and what was required of TSB as a result. These requirements differ 
depending on whether the sale of the mortgage was advised or non-advised, so Ive first 
thought about whether or nor TSB provided Mrs M with advice at the time the mortgage was 
sold.
Due to the period of time since this mortgage was taken, there are limited records about 
what took place at the sale. However we do have a copy of Mrs Ms application, and the 
mortgage offer, as well as Mrs Ms recollections about what happened.
The mortgage offer states that TSB did not recommend a particular mortgage for Mrs M, and 
that it was her own choice whether to accept the mortgage offer. Mrs M signed the mortgage 
offer to confirm her acceptance of it. The application shows that Mrs M wanted to take out a 
mortgage over a six year term, and that she intended to repay the loan by selling the 
property at the end of the term. It was on this basis that TSB offered Mrs M the mortgage to 
buy her property. 
Theres nothing in the paperwork to suggest that any advice was given at the time the 
mortgage was sold. And at the time, there was no requirement for TSB to ensure Mrs M 
received advice before taking out the mortgage. Mrs M says that she was told by the advisor 
she would be able to extend the mortgage at the end of the term if she wasnt in a position to 
repay it, and that if her son bought the property, she would be able to stay living there. 
I dont doubt that conversations about what would happen at the end of the term probably 
did take place, especially given Mrs Ms future plans for the property. But Im not persuaded 
that these conversations would have amounted to TSB giving Mrs M advice about what 
mortgage she should take out, rather I think it more likely they were giving her information 
about what could happen at the end of the six year term. As Im not persuaded that TSB did 
give advice to Mrs M at the time of the sale, I dont think it was their responsibility to check 
that the terms of the mortgage were suitable for Mrs M and her particular circumstances.
Guidance issued by the regulator at the time this mortgage was sold stated that where a 
mortgage was taken out on a non-advised basis, the information provided should be clear, 
fair and not-misleading. 
The mortgage offer sets out the terms of the mortgage clearly. It states the total amount 
borrowed was £61,535 over a term of six years, at which time the full amount borrowed 
would need to be repaid. It also states that the repayment plan for the mortgage was the 
sale of the property. Im satisfied that TSB presented the terms of the mortgage clearly 
before Mrs M agreed to them.
Mrs M does feel however that she was given mis-leading information by the TSB advisor 
about what would happen at the end of the term. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ms concerns, Im 
not persuaded that shes suffered a loss because of what she says she was told. 
When Mrs Ms mortgage term did expire, and she wasnt in a position to repay it, TSB 
extended the term until a new mortgage application successfully went through to repay the 
original borrowing. Mr and Mrs M have complained about that application process 
separately, and this has been considered by our service under a separate complaint 
reference so I wont comment on that any further here. But considering everything, Im not 
persuaded this mortgage was mis-sold due to TSB giving Mrs M any misleading information. 
In order to ensure that TSB were lending to Mrs M responsibly, they also had to take into 
account her ability to repay the mortgage. Mrs M had stated that the mortgage would be 
repaid through the sale of the property, which TSB considered acceptable at the time. 
Overall, as this was a non-advised sale, it was Mrs Ms responsibility to ensure that the 
mortgage she had chosen was suitable for her needs. Based on what was required of TSB 
at the time of the sale, Im not satisfied they mis-sold this mortgage to Mrs M. I understand it would have been stressful for Mrs M when her mortgage term ended, as she was not yet in a 
position to repay it. But Im satisfied TSB acted fairly by giving Mrs M further time until her 
circumstances changed.
Mrs M has also complained about the delays in TSB handling this complaint. As our 
investigator explained, complaint handling itself isnt an activity that falls within the remit of 
our service. So I havent considered this issue any further.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman