DRN-3808903
The complaint
Mr M has complained to Portal Financial Services LLP (formerly known as Portafina) about 
advice he received to transfer his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
What happened
In 2013 Mr N received a cold call from a business offering him a free review of his 
pension. Mr N agreed to the review and a meeting was arranged with an adviser 
from Portafina.
At the time of the advice Mr N was 55 and held a Personal Pension with a provider S. The 
pension was invested in Ss Unitised With Profits fund and it had a transfer value of 
£21,378.00. Mr N was being charged a 0.875% administration charge by S.
At the time of advice Mr Ns circumstances were as follows:  
He was employed but due to his health he wasnt working and was in receipt of 
industrial injuries disablement benefit
He owned his own home, which was worth approximately £125,000. 
He had no other assets and no disposable income.
Mr Ns objectives at that time were recorded as: 
Being able to provide benefits to his son in the event of his death
Better fund performance
He wasnt looking to take the benefits from his pension until age 60
Portafina assessed Mr Ns attitude to risk as being Balanced and it recommended that 
he transfer his Personal Pension with S to a SIPP with Novia. It also recommended that 
he invest in the following funds:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC - 15%
Real Estate Investments USA PLC - 20%
Strategic Residential Developments PLC - 15%
Invesco Perpetual European High Income Z Shares - 10%
Premier Multi-Asset Distribution - 10%
Standard Life Dynamic Distribution - 10%
Kames Ethical Cautious Managed B Acc - 10%
Cash - 10%
Mr N accepted the recommendation and his pension was transferred in November 
2013. Portafina charged Mr N an initial fee of 5% of the total transfer value and an 
ongoing adviser charge of 1% per annum. The annual management charge for the 
Novia SIPP was 0.5%.
In June 2019, with assistance from a Claims Management Company, Mr N complained to 
Portafina about the advice hed received. In summary, he complained that: 
Portafina transferred him into a speculative SIPP arrangement from a secure 
mainstream pension
All the investments were non-standard, high risk and should not have been 
promoted to him
There were no risk warnings ever given regarding these investments
He had limited or no capacity for loss
Portafina reviewed the complaint but it was satisfied that its recommendation was suitable so 
it didnt uphold the complaint. Dissatisfied with Portafinas response, Mr N referred his 
complaint to our service for review. 
Our investigators view 
The regulator issued a report on the quality of advice on pension switching in 
December 2008. Under the section entitled our approach it said it assessed 
advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the consumer switched into one of the 
following:
(amongst others)
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome 
involved assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch 
was for investment flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason 
was fund performance, but there was no evidence the new scheme was 
likely to be better; or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown option, but 
there was no evidence that this option was needed).
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a 
stakeholder pension would have met the customers needs.
A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension 
schemes, but where the extra cost was not explained or justified to the 
customer.
In this case the product cost itself was lower, the Novia SIPP annual management 
charge was 0.5% which was lower than the S Personal Pension charge of 0.875% 
however, Mr N was also charged an initial fee of 5% of the transfer value and there was 
an ongoing adviser charge of 1% per annum so the charges on the new plan would be 
higher than the existing pension.
The initial fee and the ongoing charges will have reduced the amount of the fund 
invested so the plan would have to recover the cost of the transfer and the 
ongoing charges before any growth could be achieved.
So, I have considered whether there was a good reason for Mr N to transfer his 
pension.
Mr N objective was to improve the performance of his pension funds however, Mr N 
is not an experienced investor and told me that he doesnt understand investments 
and relied on the advice he had been given by the adviser. Portafina should have 
given Mr N advice considering not just his investment objectives and his attitude to 
risk but also his capacity for loss and his experience to understand the risks involved in what it recommended.
Portafina assessed Mr Ns attitude to risk as Balanced based on the risk 
questionnaire he completed. In their suitability report they said;
Based on the answers you provided in your risk profile we believe you have a 
balanced to risk.
This broadly means:
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. 
They may have some experience of investment, including investing in products 
containing risky assets such as equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk 
in order to be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to 
take risk with at least part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a 
gamble provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. 
They will usually be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively 
quickly but do still suffer from some feelings of regret when their decisions turn 
out badly.
From the answers that Mr N provided in the risk questionnaire I would disagree with 
him being a Balanced Investor.
Mr N provided the following answers to the questions below;
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  Agree
I feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket  Disagree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters. 
Agree
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  Agree
I am willing to take substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns  
Disagree
I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares  Agree
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investment  Agree
I have also considered Mr Ns circumstances at the time of the advice.
Mr N was looking to retire at age 60 so only had a further 5 years until retirement. 
So, he had limited time to make up the initial advice charge or any other increased 
fees.
Mr N was an inexperienced investor with a lack of knowledge about investments. 
He had no disposable income after his monthly expenditure. His only asset was 
his home and £6,000 savings in a building society account. His S pension was 
his only retirement savings.
Taking this into account I dont think Mr N would have been prepared or able to 
take the level of risk recommended by Portafina with his only pension and I think 
that his attitude to risk was Cautious.
I have looked at the funds that Portafina recommended and around 50% of Mr 
Ns pension fund was invested in property bonds so a large proportion of the recommended investments were illiquid and unregulated. In their suitability 
report Portafina outlined a summary for each of the secured bonds Mr N was 
advised to invest in.
The Lakeview UK Investments PLC bond, Real Estate Investments USA PLC and 
Strategic Residential Developments PLC were all unregulated investments where 
the funds were being borrowed for property development. They all appear to be new 
start-ups so had little track record of their performance and the investments were 
illiquid.
These funds involved investing in UK and overseas property development projects 
where the targeted returns were said to be from 11%-15% per annum. Risk and 
reward are linked, and investments offering higher level of return can reasonably be 
assumed to be high risk. Especially at a time when interest rates were generally 
quite low.
I also understand that Mr N wanted to provide benefits for his son on his death and 
the SIPP was recommend so that Mr N could move to drawdown in the future and 
his remaining pension funds would be left for his son. However, I dont think that this 
was a good enough reason to transfer his personal pension. Mr Ns wasnt looking to 
take his benefits until age 60 and if he had wanted to take drawdown, he could look 
at this option at retirement.
So, for the reasons I have explained, I think that both the transfer and the 
recommended funds were unsuitable.
I havent seen anything to say that Mr N was unhappy with the performance of his 
S pension and I think its reasonable to say that he only transferred his pension 
because Portafina advised him to. The with-profits fund he was invested in would 
have been suitable for his attitude to risk.
With-profits funds are generally considered to be suitable for consumers with a 
more cautious attitude to risk. This is because with-profits funds usually include a 
mixture of assets, including those that are more secure. when determining the 
value of bonuses, providers apply a process of "smoothing". This means money, 
in terms of bonus levels, is kept back in years when investment returns are high 
to support bonus payments in years where investment returns are lower; and 
annual bonuses cannot usually be taken away once they have been added.
So, I think that Mr Ns S Personal pension was suitable for his attitude to risk and 
circumstances and he should not have been advised to transfer.
The investigator went on to set out what Portafina needed to do to put matters right. 
Both Mr N and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our file was closed on 
the basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portafina subsequently retracted its agreement to the investigators findings.  
It said that:
it was concerned the investigator had said that the charges were higher with the 
SIPP when factoring Portafinas initial and ongoing advice fees. It thought that it 
was unreasonable as this assumed that Portafina should not have charged a fee 
for the service provided. It said that had the advice been for Mr N to retain his 
personal pension but switch funds, then Portafina would still have required a fee 
of some kind.The fund with S was a unitised with profits fund that was performing quite poorly 
having only shown an annualised return over the past 5 years of 1.925%. As one of 
Mr Ns objectives was to improve performance, Portafina thought that this was 
something that could be improved on. 
The Novia SIPP was the cheaper option when factoring Portals initial fee. The 
ongoing fee wasnt factored into the analysis because this service was optional and 
Mr N wasnt obliged to continue ongoing management of the plan. 
Considering this, Portafina felt that the investigator had incorrectly concluded that the 
transfer was unsuitable because of the higher charges.  
As Mr N hadnt received his settlement from Portafina, he contacted our service and asked 
for his complaint to reopened. As both parties requested that the matter be reopened, it was 
agreed that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the regulators handbook, Portafina has an 
obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty to comply with any settlement it has 
agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements DISP 3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
1. any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
2.any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my 
emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply 
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina retracted its agreement to settle this 
complaint in line with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of 
this matter for Mr N but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Its also disappointing that Portafina would raise this point about fees when ultimately, the 
investigator thought the SIPP was unsuitable for other reasons. 
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by 
both parties. But in this case Mr N also requested that the matter be reopened, so we have 
agreed to do so on this occasion.
Firstly, I should explain that I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for mostly 
the same reasons. I see little point in reiterating what the investigator has already said. So I 
only intend to address the issue that Portafina has said it no longer accepts; the issue of its 
fees being taken into account.
As alluded to above, the issue of whether the new arrangement was more expensive is only 
one of the reasons this complaint was upheld. So even if I was to determine that the SIPP 
was a cheaper option, the complaint still succeeds on the other aspects. Regardless of the cost of the SIPP, they arent suitable for every investor. While they offer 
greater flexibility in terms of the types of investments that can be made into them, this 
flexibility isnt necessarily something that less experience investors, like Mr N, require. And 
SIPPs generally tend to be suited to investors that are comfortable making their own 
investment decisions or who have sufficient funds to pay to have their funds managed. Mr N 
wasnt either of these.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the investments Portafina recommended were 
unsuitable. Having considered the investments further, I agree this was the case. They were 
high risk and Mr N didnt have the appetite for risk or capacity for loss that these types of 
investments carried. Portafina erroneously classed Mr N as having a balanced ATR. And the 
main reason the transfer was recommended and the SIPP was established seems to have 
been so Mr N could invest in a number of UCIS and other high risk investments, which were 
not suitable for him. So, as Ive already said above, the complaint still succeeds even if the 
transfer was deemed suitable. As such, the remedy to put things right is the same, 
regardless of the findings in terms of the actual transfer. 
However, for completeness, I have addressed Portafinas concerns about the fees and the 
transfer below. 
Portafina says that by factoring in its initial and ongoing advice fee the investigator 
concluded the transfer was unsuitable. But it considers this is unreasonable as it assumes 
Portafina shouldnt have charged a fee for the service provided, even if it had recommended 
that Mr N switched funds within his existing arrangement. 
Mr N had agreed to a free pension review so had Portafina not recommended Mr N take any 
action with his pension, it wouldnt have been able to charge a fee. However, I do accept that 
if it had given Mr N advice to switch investments within his current plan, then it might have 
decided to charge a fee for this particular advice. But thats not what happened here. 
Portafina says that it wasnt possible for Mr N to switch funds within his existing 
arrangement. And that may well have been the case. But Im conscious Mr N was cold called 
by a company working for Portafina and he was offered a free pension review. This doesnt 
suggest to me that he was so unhappy with his existing arrangement that he was actively 
looking to move his pension fund or switch investments.
The fees represented a sizable reduction to Mr Ns already modest transfer value. And the 
ongoing SIPP charges were higher than his existing arrangement. Portafinas initial fee was 
5% of Mr Ns transferred fund value and its ongoing advice fee was 1%. I appreciate that the 
ongoing servicing was an optional service that Mr N chose to have. But with so little 
investment experience, I cant see that Mr N would have been happy to manage the SIPP 
investments himself. So whilst it may have been an optional service, I think the cost needed 
to be included in the overall assessment.
The SIPPs AMC was 0.5% and there were additional charges for each individual investment 
within the SIPP. Whereas for Mr Ns existing plan, the only cost he was incurring was a 
0.875% AMC. 
Mr Ns existing arrangement was invested more in line with his ATR. I acknowledge that the 
average return over the past 5 years was fairly low at 1.925%. But given the significant 
reduction in fund value when taking account of the fees and ongoing charges - and bearing 
in mind Mr N was, at most, a balanced investor - I dont believe there was great prospect of 
making up the cost of the switch via investment growth without taking significant investment 
risks. And as Ive already said, I dont believe the investment approach Portafina advised 
Mr N to take was suitable. I think more appropriate advice wouldve been for Mr N to leave his pension where it was. And had Portafina provided Mr N with this suitable advice when it 
completed its free pension review  no fees would have been payable.
I therefore uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay redress as 
set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr N would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portafina do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below:
Portafina should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portafina should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portafina pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portafina is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portafina may require that Mr N provides an 
undertaking to pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr N's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portafina should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portafina totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portafina will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr N's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Portafina taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something that Mr N can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portafina 
is unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
it pays Mr N an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
N would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr N in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman