DRN-2771473
The complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly. He says the 
correct checks werent made before Gain Credit approved the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mr H on 
14 December 2019. Mr H borrowed £400 and he was due to make 23 weekly repayments of 
£32.32 and a final payment of £20.70. The loan was repaid on 29 May 2020. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks Lending Stream had 
made were proportionate and so it was reasonable for it to lend. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and he asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. As no agreement was been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr H provided to Lending Stream when he completed 
his loan application. Mr H said he had a monthly income of £1,500 and he had regular 
monthly outgoings of about £650. So, it would have been reasonable for Lending Stream to 
think that the loan repayments were affordable for Mr H because he has sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
have relied on the information it obtained. I dont think it needed to, for example, look at his 
payslips or verify his expenditure for this one loan. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about this loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman