DRN-1437267
 
The complaint
Mrs K says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs K took out a credit card with Nationwide in 2002. Nationwide sold her PPI at the same 
time to go with it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs K disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs K says she cant recall how she applied for the credit card (and PPI). Nationwide cant 
confirm this either, other than to say this wasnt a phone sale. Ive looked carefully at how 
Nationwide sold these policies in 2002. From what Ive seen, it gave its customers a choice 
about whether to take PPI and they werent led to believe the PPI was a condition of the 
credit card.
Overall, I dont think there are any grounds for me to uphold the complaint on this basis. I 
understand that the lack of information from the actual sales frustrating for Mrs K, but it 
seems just as likely to me that Mrs K was aware she was taking out optional PPI.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs K. So Nationwide didnt need to make 
sure the policy was right for her. But it still should have given Mrs K enough information so 
she could make an informed decision about whether to take it out.
I cant say Nationwide did that. But I think Mrs K would have thought the PPI was right for 
her anyway. I say that because:
Mrs K was eligible for the PPI under its terms. Although the policy had some 
exclusions and restrictions, such as for claims for pre-existing medical conditions, I 
dont think she was affected by any of them.
Mrs K says she was entitled to enhanced sick and/or redundancy pay from her 
employer for a time, although she hasnt specified how much shed have got or for 
how long. The policy benefits would have been paid on top of that and for up to 
12 months per claim. Despite the limited savings she says she also had, I think Mrs K 
would still have valued the protection the PPI offered.I've seen nothing to show shed have felt the PPI premium  which I note was 
relatively low compared with other PPI available on the market at the time  was 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that, if Mrs K had decided she didnt 
want it anymore, she could have cancelled it at any time without losing out.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Ks lost out because of how Nationwide sold 
her the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman