DRN-3994771
The complaint
Mr I complains Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made 
on his mobile phone insurance policy following the theft of four mobile phones and a smart 
watch. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
In October 2022, Mr I purchased four mobile phones and a smart watch from a 
retailer. He took out mobile phone insurance underwritten by Assurant to cover the 
items.
When the items were received, Mr I says he put them in the boot of his car. Some 
time later, in November 2022, he discovered the items were no longer there. He 
reported the theft to Assurant to make a claim on his policy. 
Assurant investigated the claim and spoke to Mr I and his representative about the 
circumstances. Mr I said the items were bought as presents and so, at the time of the 
theft, were still sealed in their boxes, hadnt been turned on or activated. Assurant 
said its records indicated otherwise and that the mobile phones had been activated 
already, prior to the date of the theft.
Because of this, Assurant declined the whole claim. Mr I complained but Assurant 
said it questioned the validity of Mr Is claim and explained the policy terms allowed it 
to decline claims where questions werent answered honestly, as it believed was the 
case here. The claim remained declined so Mr I brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. Given the 
evidence available, he thought Assurant had acted fairly and in line with the policy 
terms when it declined the claim. Mr I asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show 
the claim is covered under the policy terms. When declining a claim, the onus is on 
the business to show that either an exclusion applies or that a condition has been 
breached. Ill be keeping this principle in mind while considering this complaint, 
together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Assurant has said Mr I didnt provide accurate answers to its questions during the 
investigation. Because of this, it says he breached the following policy condition:
Its important that when applying for insurance or submitting a claim you or 
anyone acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all 
questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may 
affect the validity of your policy or the fulfilment of your claim.
This is a typical requirement across insurance policies and Id expect policyholders to 
be honest when making claims. Ive listened very carefully to the call when Mr I 
reported the theft of the items to Assurant. Assurants representative asked Mr I a 
number of questions relating to the claim including whether the items had been 
removed from their boxes, whether they had ever been turned on and whether theyd 
ever been used. Mr I said no to each of these questions. 
Initially, there was something of a communication barrier as English isnt Mr Is first 
language. But then Mr I asked his son to translate for him, and then later a friend. 
The representative ran through the same questions two further times and the 
questions were translated for Mr I and he provided the same no answer to the 
questions each time. So it seems clear to me Mr I both understood the question and 
answer he was giving  that the phones hadnt been used.  
Assurant has provided evidence which shows the four phones had all been activated 
before Mr I phoned Assurant to report the theft. Assurant says the only way the 
phones could have been activated was if they had been removed from their boxes, 
turned on and set up. From my own experience and independent research, Im 
satisfied this is correct. Because of this inconsistency with the answers provided by 
Mr I, Assurant said it called into question the validity of his claim.
In the circumstances, I understand why Assurant thought Mr Is answers were 
inconsistent with the activation reports it had available. And Im satisfied he therefore 
hadnt answered the questions accurately or honestly in line with his policy 
obligations. And having considered the policy condition above, Im satisfied Assurant 
has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms in declining Mr Is claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman