DRN-4518060
The complaint
Miss B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed her twin sister to use her address as a 
correspondence address  even though they dont live together  and to impersonate her 
and access her account. Miss B also complains that Barclays Bank UK PLCs response, 
when she informed them, was inadequate and that she has, as a result, had problems with 
her account for years.
What happened
Miss B has an account with Barclays  shes had one for many years  and a twin sister. 
She says her twin sister also used to have an account with Barclays  which was closed in 
or around March 2022  and that she may have opened a new one recently.
Miss B says shes been complaining to Barclays for years about her twin sister using her 
address as a correspondence address  even though they dont live together  
impersonating her and accessing her account. Miss B says Barclays response to her 
complaints has been inadequate. Miss B says her twin sister has, as a result, caused her all 
sorts of problems, and that things are getting worse rather than better.
Miss B complained to us about problems she was having with Barclays in July 2021 and 
again in February 2022. We set up two complaints. The first one was about problems Miss B 
was having withdrawing cash from ATMs and her account being blocked. The second one 
was about problems Miss B was having as a result of her twin sister. An investigator looked 
into the first complaint and said that they didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong as 
the evidence suggested there was a problem reading her cards chip. Another investigator 
looked into the second complaint and said that Barclays should pay Miss B £300 in 
compensation and take steps to make sure her twin sister was taken off her address.
Miss B says shes still receiving letters from Barclays, debt collectors and other third parties 
intended for her twin sister. And that she doesnt feel our investigator looked into her second 
complaint properly. So, her second complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month, having spoken to both parties, I issued a provisional decision setting out the 
history of this case in considerable detail. I did this so that both parties could have a 
common understanding of whats happened and is currently happening as well as an 
opportunity to comment on what I think needed to be done to put matters right.
In response to my provisional decision, Barclays has sent me evidence showing that Miss B 
has only one account with it, showing her most recent card and details of the device 
registered to her mobile banking app. In addition, Barclays has sent me recent bank 
statements and details of payments Miss B has disputed along with the steps its taken to 
make sure her account is secure. Ive been through some of these details with Miss B and, 
having done so, Im satisfied that shes able to use her account and that her twin sister 
doesnt have access to it, and that payments shes unsure about have been disputed. In 
short, Im satisfied that she has control of her account.
In my provisional decision, I explained in detail the problems Miss B has had with her 
account in the past and why I thought Barclays could and should have done more. Having 
done so, I said I was minded to award her £1,000 in compensation. Both parties agreed.
Putting things right
Barclays has shown me that Miss B has control of her account now. So, the only additional 
thing Im going to require Barclays to do is to pay compensation. Its agreed to the award of 
£1,000 I suggested. So, thats the award Im going to make  in full and final settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Miss B £1,000 in compensation in full and final settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman