DRN-1479310
The complaint
Mr J complained because Santander UK plc refused to offer him a lower interest rate 
product on his mortgage. He also said that Santander had overcharged him, because he 
was paying money towards his mortgage at the same time as DSS benefits were being paid 
to the mortgage.
Mr J wants a refund of £23,184.20 plus compensation.
What happened
Mr J took a new mortgage with Santander in April 2009. In the first few years, Mr J was 
sometimes in arrears with his payments. In 2010, Santander received a notice from another 
organisation, which Mr J confirmed, saying that there had been a court order against Mr J 
which put a charge for just over £29,000 on his mortgaged  property.
Mr Js mortgage was on a two-year tracker rate from 2011 to 2013, which would change to 
the standard variable rate when the product expired. 
From August 2012, DSS benefits began to be paid to Mr Js Santander mortgage account. In 
May 2013 the two-year product expired. Mr J asked for a replacement product, but 
Santander told Mr J it couldnt give him a replacement product at that point. The mortgage 
went onto standard variable rate, and the payments due went up. The total monthly payment 
due on Mr Js mortgage was paid partly by DSS benefits and partly through a direct debit 
from Mr J. This continued for some years, with the last DSS payment crediting the mortgage 
in April 2018.
Santanders records show that Mr J rang a couple of times after 2013, but on one occasion 
he hung up, and on another occasion he said hed think about the rates offered. In 
December 2017, Mr J accepted a product offer from Santander, and his mortgage was 
changed to a fixed rate product till April 2023. 
On 28 April 2019, Mr J complained to Santander. He said that DSS benefits had been 
paying his mortgage since 2012. So he wanted a refund of all the payments he had made 
since 2012. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It explained that any overpayments due had 
already been refunded to Mr J.  Santander said it had paid Mr S £1,396.20 in September 
2012, £382 in October 2016, and £185.47 in December 2016. It said no more was due to Mr 
J.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed paid £23,184.20 during the time when DSS had been paying 
his mortgage, and he wanted this back. He also complained because Santander hadnt 
offered him another deal when his fixed rate product had expired in 2013. 
Santander again didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It explained that DSS benefits didnt have to 
cover the whole mortgage payment. That was why, when Mr Js interest rate went up in 
2013, hed had to make some payments himself. Santander explained that Mr J wasnt 
entitled to a refund for these.
And Santander also said that at the time when Mr J asked for a new rate in 2013, he hadnt 
been making payments himself, so had no proven record of meeting his commitments. By 
the time hed applied again in 2017, hed proved he could make payments, so hed been 
offered a new rate.
Mr J wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that in 2013 hed been refused 
a new rate, for unjustified reasons he wasnt aware of. Mr J said Santander had overcharged 
him by £23,184.20, because it had taken payments from him while the DSS was paying his 
mortgage. He wanted an immediate refund of this amount. And Mr J also said he believed 
Santander should compensate him for all the pain and suffering and humiliation hed 
suffered.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He explained that Santander didnt have to 
give a better rate to all customers. But he also looked into how Santander decides whether 
to offer new rates. He explained that it used a banding system, depending on account 
conduct and external factors. Mr J hadnt been in arrears when hed asked for a new rate in 
2013, so the reason must have been external factors. Santander no longer had the credit file 
information it would have taken about Mr J in 2013. But the 2010 court charging order 
against Mr J must have had an effect on Mr Js credit file in 2013. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view. He said that he expected Santander to help him 
when hed had external factors. And he said that when the benefits were paying his 
mortgage, Santander had failed to tell the DSS the full amount of interest it had to pay. He 
asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether Santander should have given Mr J a better rate in 2013
Lenders dont have to give existing mortgage customers a new fixed rate product, when an 
existing one comes to an end. The mortgage terms and conditions are what govern a 
mortgage, and theres nothing in these to say Santander had to offer Mr J a rate which was 
lower than the standard variable rate. The terms of the product Mr J had had from 2011 to 
2013 said that when the rate expired in 2013, it would go onto the standard variable rate, 
and thats what happened. So there was no obligation for Santander to give Mr J a better 
rate.
I have, however, looked at the situation in 2013, to see whether Santander acted reasonably 
and in line with its own processes. I accept that Santander wont still have a copy of Mr Js 
credit rating when it obtained this as long ago as May 2013. But the evidence of the court 
order for just over £29,000 shows that Mr Js credit rating at the time must have been badly 
affected by this. And in May 2013, Mr J himself hadnt been able to make any payments to 
his mortgage since August 2012. These were factors which Santander could reasonably be 
expected to take into account when deciding whether or not to offer Mr J a better deal.
I recognise that Mr J has said that Santander should have helped him despite the fact that 
he had external factors  in other words a poor credit rating and problems paying other 
organisations. But lenders can make their own decisions about who they offer their better rates to. They dont have to offer them to people who have the worst credit records, for 
instance, even if they are existing mortgage customers. Nor do lenders have to offer better 
products, in order to help borrowers with the level of borrowing they have elsewhere. I 
realise Mr J doesnt think this is fair, but theres nothing in regulation, or Mr Js mortgage 
terms and conditions, to say this has to happen.  
Whether Santander owes Mr J £23,184.20
Mr J believes that when the DSS was contributing towards his mortgage, he shouldnt have 
had to pay anything himself. So he wants a refund of everything he paid during the years he 
was having benefits paid to his mortgage.
But when benefits are paid to any mortgage, they dont necessarily cover the full amount. Its 
not up to the lender, or to this service, to say how much the DSS should have been paying 
towards Mr Js mortgage. If Mr J wants to dispute that, hell have to contact the benefits 
people, though Id point out that the assessment of his personal financial situation would 
have been carried out a long time ago - the first DSS credit was made in mid 2012 and the 
first one where Mr J had to contribute was in mid 2013.
Looking at Mr Js mortgage, the DSS wasnt paying everything that Mr J was contracted to 
pay on the mortgage throughout these years. Thats why Mr J was required to pay 
something towards the mortgage too. The combined money paid by Mr J and the DSS 
wasnt overpaying the mortgage, but paying the exact amount due. So there wasnt, and 
isnt, any large sum of money due to Mr J. 
There were a few months when there was an overpayment, which  Ive listed above. These 
totalled £1,964.29 and were refunded to Mr J in three payments between 2012 and 2016. 
These were generally where there was a payment change, and Santander refunded the 
overpayments. 
Santander has helpfully set out a breakdown of DSS contributions, Mr Js payments, and the 
total due. Santander has suggested we can forward this to Mr J so he can see the detail. Its 
information Mr J would have had at the time, but might help him see what happened. Ill ask 
the investigator to send this to Mr J, shortly after Ive sent Mr J this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman