DRN-4082968
The complaint
Mrs M complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank PLC 
provided unsuitable investment advice when it recommended her to invest in a fund that was 
too risky for her as an inexperienced investor.
To put things right, she would like financial compensation to put her into the position she 
would be in had she been given suitable investment advice.
What happened
In 2000, Mrs M paid £7,000 into a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account ('ISA') 
invested in the medium risk UK Growth Fund.
Lloyds said it was satisfied this risk level had been appropriate for her and didnt uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint that its investment recommendation had been unsuitable. Based on the 
information it had available in its records, Lloyds said:
its advisor carried out an assessment of Mrs Ms financial and personal 
circumstances prior to making the recommendation
this assessment would have taken into account Mrs Ms savings and investments at 
the time along with her monthly disposable income  
it would have included Mrs Ms investment objectives 
the medium risk fund aimed to provide a diversified portfolio offering a wide spread of 
investments with the potential for long term growth
Mrs M would have been provided with Key Features Documents at the time which 
highlighted the aims and risks of the plan and a Financial Report during the meeting 
with the advisor 
she would also have then received further paperwork and a cancellation notice giving 
her sufficient time to read through the recommendations and the option not to 
proceed if not happy to do so
Mrs M had made no withdrawals from the plan and it was (then) still live, which 
Lloyds said demonstrated that the recommended plan was affordable and 
sustainable for her.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. 
Where complaints concern something that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. In this instance, Lloyds gave 
consent to us investigating Mrs Ms complaint and our investigator looked into the 
circumstances of this sale.
After considering the complaint at length, ultimately the investigator didnt feel this was a 
complaint he could recommend upholding. He mainly thought that although Mrs M had 
limited investment experience, this didnt mean that only products with a smaller investment 
risk shouldve been advised. Mrs M had wanted greater returns on her savings and the 
UK Growth Fund, invested mainly in a mix of UK equities, aimed to increase the value of the 
investment over the medium to long term, in line with her wishes. Mrs M had been in a 
strong financial situation with sufficient cash reserves to withstand losses. After discussion 
with the advisor, she had declined the option of putting her money into a lower risk fund 
which would have generated income that she could have invested elsewhere to achieve her 
goal of growing her money over the longer term. This led the investigator to conclude that 
the recommendation was suitable and he didnt recommend that Lloyds should take any 
further action.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. On her behalf, the CMC said, in brief summary:
the point of sale documentation reflected the advisors language rather than Mrs Ms 
own words
Mrs M was an inexperienced investor
it wasnt clear how Lloyds assessed Mrs M as a medium risk investor and it would 
have suited Lloyds to classify her in this way as it then made the UK Growth Fund 
suitable for her
there was no other product offering capital growth that was suitable for a low risk or 
cautious investor and it is unclear why, if Mrs M was genuinely assessed to be a 
medium risk investor, a low risk product was discussed with her in the first place.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
I've had the benefit of seeing some of the point of sale paperwork including the information 
prepared by the advisor in the record of the Financial Interview (the fact find). Mrs M 
signed the Summary and Recommendations, which was based on the fact find from the first 
meeting with the advisor, to confirm that the information recorded was accurate and that the 
risks and characteristics of the recommended investment had been explained to her. So, 
I think it is reasonable for me to rely on the information the point of sale paperwork shows 
about Mrs Ms risk approach at the time. 
The following information is recorded in the fact find:
- Mrs M was in paid employment and intending to work for many more years before 
planned retirement
- she lived in a property subject to an endowment mortgage with an outstanding term 
of more than 15 years and she had no concerns about repaying the mortgage 
balance at the end of the term 
- there were no other significant household liabilities recorded
- she held finances jointly with the other adult householder giving her access to:
£18,000 savings for general household expenditure 
£10,000 shared cash savings £10,000 in premium bonds
£5,000 worth of shares
- she was looking to invest over the medium to long term
- she wanted to keep a joint cash reserve of £10,000 as emergency funds.
There is no expenditure information recorded but the above information suggests that all the 
household outgoings were amply covered out of the joint monthly household income, leaving 
any surplus funds to supplement cash savings and cash reserves available for investment 
purposes.  
Looked at overall, I find that Mrs M had capacity to absorb investment loss and she was in a 
strong enough financial situation to be able to invest. 
Mrs M said she wanted to get a better return than her existing bank and building society 
accounts offered. As far as I can see, her monthly financial needs appeared to be 
comfortably covered by her existing income, with readily accessible cash savings available 
to draw upon if needed. I am not aware of any unaddressed spending requirements. So she 
didnt require any income from the investment. Mrs Ms circumstances and financial situation 
show that she was in a position to be able to invest for the medium to long term. I am 
supported in saying this by the fact that she has been able to keep this investment for many 
years without ever needing to draw upon the capital. 
Lloyds doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion about the risk Mrs M was prepared 
to take with her investment. But this isnt enough of a reason for me to conclude that a 
medium risk investment was not suitable for her. I think its likely risk wouldve been 
discussed as this was part of the advisors normal process and information recorded in the 
fact find suggests that consideration was given to the question of Mrs Ms attitude to risk. 
There are handwritten amendments making clear that Mrs M was most comfortable with a 
medium level of risk (as opposed to Medium/High which the advisor had originally recorded 
and Mrs M changed, initialling the alteration). Ive been provided with no evidence to suggest 
that Mrs M raised objection about the way the advisor finally recorded her risk approach at 
the time, which Id have expected Mrs M to have done if she disagreed with it.
I accept that Mrs Ms existing shareholding didnt suggest that she was an active trader or a 
particularly experienced investor. But I dont agree that a medium risk investment couldnt 
ever be suitable for an inexperienced investor. This would effectively deprive Mrs M of the 
opportunity to make bigger investment gains than she could otherwise achieve, which seems 
unfair to me as Mrs M needed to take some investment risk in pursuit of the capital growth 
she said she wanted.  
Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, overall, 
having considered everything, I dont find that Mrs M was exposed to more risk than she 
wanted to take. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account everything Mrs M has said, 
including comments the CMC mentioned in response to the investigators opinion. But, for all 
the reasons I have explained more fully above, this doesnt change my overall view. In 
particular, I dont consider the fact that Lloyds also discussed a low risk investment option 
with Mrs M is a good enough reason for me to find that Mrs M wasnt properly assessed as a 
medium risk investor or that she was unwilling or unable to tolerate the risk level of this 
particular fund. I have noted, in addition, that Lloyds has mentioned that when the value of 
Mrs Ms investment in the UK Growth Fund dropped substantially in 2001 and 2008, she 
raised no issues about this, which I might reasonably have expected if Mrs M hadnt been 
comfortable being exposed to this degree of risk.  In order to uphold this complaint I have to fairly be able to say that Lloyds did something 
wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. For the reasons I have set out 
above, I havent seen enough to show that the recommended investment was too risky for 
Mrs M or otherwise unsuitable. Based on all the information I've seen and been told, so far 
as I can see, the advice broadly met Mrs Ms needs and investment objectives and was 
suitable. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs M but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman