DRN-4310903
The complaint
J, a company, complains that their broker, Davies Craddock, let them down when they made 
a claim on their goods in transit insurance policy and that they should have sold them legal 
expenses insurance but didnt.
In this decision Ive referred to all submissions made on Js behalf as its own for ease of 
reference.  
What happened
J made a claim on their goods in transit insurance policy through their broker Davies 
Craddock for an incident that arose in October 2020. 
J feels Davies Craddock mishandled their claim and that their involvement caused there to 
be unnecessary delays in payment being received from their insurer. J says it agreed 
payment with the insurer directly in March 2023 and that the delays were attributable to the 
way Davies Craddock handled the claim. 
J says Davies Craddock sent the insurer incorrect information and failed to check the 
content of the information they were sending, which led to the insurer suspecting the claim 
was fraudulent. J says that it wasnt until it resolved the matter itself with the insurer that its 
claim was paid.
J is also unhappy that Davies Craddock didnt sell it legal expenses insurance when it took 
out its goods in transit insurance policy. J says this was something it always takes out cover 
for and that it only discovered it didnt have this after the incident took place.
Our investigator considered Js complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. His overall 
view was that J had done nothing wrong in relation to the way it presented the claim to Js 
insurer. He also said that although there might have been failings in the way the goods in 
transit insurance policy was sold, J wouldnt have done anything differently as it already had 
legal expenses insurance cover in place. J doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to 
me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Js complaint for broadly the same reasons reached by 
the investigator.
In this case Davies Craddock submitted Js claim to its insurer following the incident that 
took place in October 2020. J has said that Davies Craddock made a number of mistakes 
when passing information to its insurer, such that this led to the insurer concluding the claim 
was fraudulent. 
Ive considered the correspondence that passed between Davies Craddock and Js insurer. 
The content suggests to me that Davies Craddock was simply acting as a go between for 
those parties- passing information back and forth. And from what Ive seen, theres nothing 
in there that suggests that they got involved in the type of evidence the insurer asked to see 
to substantiate the claim other than to request it from J and pass it on to the insurer, such 
that it led to the insurer taking the view this was a fraudulent claim. Thats not unusual. 
Whilst some brokers like Davies Craddock might help their customers in this way, theyre not 
responsible for pursuing the claim on Js behalf. Their role is primarily to sell insurance. 
But given Davies Craddock did more in this case, Ive given thought to whether they did 
anything wrong in the way they passed on this information between the parties. From what 
Ive seen, I cant say that they did. It wasnt their role to check the content of the evidence J 
was sending to ensure it was accurate or correct and theres nothing Ive seen that suggests 
Davies Craddock did something specific that led to the insurer taking the view this was a 
fraudulent claim, like providing either party with misleading information in its own right. It was 
up to J to ensure the information they were submitting was accurate and not to for Davies 
Craddock to correct this on Js behalf. So, whilst the information J supplied might have been 
inaccurate, I cant attribute this to something Davies Craddock did. J did eventually clear up 
any misunderstandings with the insurer directly. I appreciate this led to a long delay in the 
claim being paid but that doesnt mean that Davies Cradock did something wrong. 
Ive also considered whether Davies Craddock were responsible for any decisions Js insurer 
made about the claim and I cant say they were. Js insurer was responsible for the decisions 
it made about its claim. And in this case, it looks like they werent satisfied with the 
information that had been submitted to substantiate Js claim for a long time. So, there was a 
lot of back and forth between Davies Craddock and the parties to help resolve this issue. 
That doesnt mean Davies Craddock did something that caused this to be the case. Given 
the content of the correspondence between the parties- and the many conversations that 
took place between Davies Craddock and J- I think it would have been better if J had simply 
claimed on the policy directly without Davies Craddocks involvement. Some of those 
conversations suggest that J wasnt happy or able to supply the information requested and 
that it was seeking to supply something else. Had J have dealt with the insurer directly, I 
think less time would have been spent explaining this to J and reverting to the insurer- but 
again thats not something I can say Davies Craddock are responsible for. J was entitled to 
pursue this claim itself directly. It may be best advised to do so in future for any new claims, 
rather than through a broker, so that its clear about whats required of it and why thats 
necessary, with a view to avoiding delays. 
Turning now to the mis-sale complaint; I understand J is unhappy that Davies Craddock 
didnt sell it a legal expenses insurance policy alongside its goods in transit insurance cover. 
But from what I understand, J already had a legal expenses policy in place that covered it in 
respect of the claim it wanted to make for the period in question. In light of this, I dont think 
its necessary for me to decide whether Davies Craddock failed in its obligations to J. Thats 
because J already had cover elsewhere so there is no loss that arises from this complaint 
point. So, theres nothing for me to direct Davies Craddock to do, even if I did conclude it did 
something wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Js complaint against Davies Craddock. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-VennOmbudsman