DRN-3067954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt give them clear information about 
the deadline to port their buy to let mortgage product. As a result, they were unable to port 
their mortgage. Mr and Mrs M paid an early repayment charge (ERC) of about £6,500 which 
theyd like refunded, as well as other charges and a product fee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. They took out a fixed interest rate 
product with an ERC which applied until April 2021. Mr and Mrs M sold the property in mid-
September 2020. They intended to buy a new property and port the mortgage product. They 
say Barclays didnt tell them they had to complete their purchase within 90 days to port their 
product until it was too late for them to arrange this. They had to take out a new product with 
a higher interest rate, find the funds for a larger deposit and didnt get a refund of the ERC.  
Our investigator said while Barclays didnt include the 90-day porting deadline in its first 
mortgage offer, it issued an offer two days later which did include this. In December 2020 Mr 
and Mrs M told Barclays the purchase price of their new property had reduced. Barclays 
issued a new mortgage offer three days later  which was the same day the porting window 
ended. The investigator said while Mr and Mrs M missed the deadline to port their mortgage, 
this wasnt due to delays by Barclays.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said the first mortgage offer didnt include the 90 days limit, 
and this was the basis on which he organised the purchase process. He said he didnt 
receive the second mortgage offer directly and had to ask his solicitor for it. Mr M said 
Barclays didnt bring the change in the wording to his attention and the wording was unclear. 
Mr M said as this happened during the Covid-19 pandemic Barclays should have extended 
the time limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took out a buy to let mortgage with Barclays with a fixed interest rate product. 
This included an ERC. They sold the property and paid the ERC in September 2020. Mr and 
Mrs M made a porting application via a broker, and Barclays issued a mortgage offer in 
October 2020. 
The first mortgage offer issued by Barclays in mid-October 2020 didnt say that Mr and 
Mrs M had 90 days from the date theyd sold their property and repaid their mortgage to port 
their product. Barclays issued a mortgage offer two days later that did say this.
In order to port their product, Mr and Mrs M needed to complete their purchase and 
mortgage by a date in the first half of December 2020. Three days before this deadline, Mr 
and Mrs M told Barclays there was a change in the purchase price and loan amount. 
Barclays issued a new mortgage offer three days later  on the same day that the porting 
deadline ended. 
I dont think Barclays made errors here that would make it fair and reasonable to require it to 
pay compensation. While the first mortgage offer didnt set out the 90-day porting deadline, 
Barclays issued a second mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs M two days later that did. This was 
correctly addressed to Mr and Mrs M. And, while Mr M says they didnt receive the second 
mortgage offer sent to them, they did receive a copy from their solicitor. 
Mr M says he didnt read the new mortgage offer, but relied on the first one. Thats 
unfortunate but I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays was responsible for this. Barclays 
sent the mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs M and I think it could reasonably expect Mr and 
Mrs M to read it. And while Mr M says the 90-day wording was unclear, Mr and Mrs M could 
have spoken to their broker or solicitor (or Barclays) if they werent sure how the porting 
deadline  or the porting process more generally  applied to them. 
Its not clear that Mr and Mrs M would have completed their purchase and new mortgage 
within the 90-day time limit even if theyd known about it from the outset. Mr and Mrs M 
havent said why their purchase didnt progress more quickly after the mortgage offer was 
issued in October 2020. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think Barclays caused 
delays that resulted in Mr and Mrs M missing the deadline to port the mortgage. It issued a 
mortgage offer in mid-October 2020, about two months before the deadline. When Barclays 
was told about the change in the purchase price and loan amount it issued a revised 
mortgage offer three days later, which I dont consider to be unreasonable. 
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs M werent able to port their product as theyd intended. But I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to refund the ERC or 
other fees, or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman