DRN-3772992
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy after he was taken ill overseas. Mrs N is assisting Mr K in bringing his 
complaint. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in March 2022, Mr K bought a single trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes. Cover started on 19 April 2022 and ended on 3 May 2022. 
On 26 April 2022, whilst Mr K and Mrs N were on a trip, Mr K became unwell. Mrs N 
sought assistance from the hotel reception. She had difficulty contacting Great Lakes by 
phone. When Mrs N got through to Great Lakes it said that this was a medical 
emergency and emailed confirmation of cover and the name of their network hospital to 
Mr K and Mrs N.       
The paramedics, who I believe were called by the hotel reception, took Mr K to a 
different hospital, which Ill refer to as hospital IM. On arrival at hospital IM, Mrs N was 
asked to pay a deposit and informed that it didnt deal with Great Lakes. Mrs N spoke 
with Great Lakes again and it agreed to send a guarantee of payment to hospital IM. 
Hospital IM asked Mrs N for further payment, declined to transport Mr K to Great Lakes 
network hospital without payment but agreed to transport Mr K to the public hospital.  
Mrs N couldnt get through to Great Lakes. When  the public hospital asked for payment, 
Mr K and Mrs N returned to their hotel. 
Mr K and Mrs N returned to the UK on 3 May 2022. I understand that Mr K received 
medical treatment in the UK and was told that hed suffered a transient ischaemic attack 
(a mini stroke).
Mr K and Mrs N say that they feel let down by lack of support and follow-up from     
Great Lakes. They had difficulty getting through on the phone. They expected          
Great Lakes to be aware of local issues. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably. The investigator said that Great Lakes gave 
appropriate information and referred Mr K to a nearby hospital. She said that            
Great Lakes wasnt responsible for the fact that the paramedics took Mr K to a different 
hospital or for the quality of Mr Ks treatment at that hospital. The investigator said that 
Great Lakes guaranteed payment and wasnt at fault in relation to the difficulties Mrs N    
had in contacting it by phone. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs N responded on his behalf and said that the 
heart of the complaint is that Great Lakes didnt know that the hospital required payment 
in advance and an immediate payment of €1,000. She said that Great Lakes didnt assist 
her in resolving the matter. Mrs N says that she doesnt blame Great Lakes for the 
hospitals conduct. She wants Great Lakes to recognize what went wrong here so that 
others can avoid the distress they suffered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr K and Mrs N have very strong feelings about this 
matter. They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have 
read and considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very 
worrying time into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to 
be informal. Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that neither 
Mr K nor Mrs N will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issue, that is whether Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of       
Mr Ks claim for emergency medical assistance.      
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint because I dont think that 
Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Based on what Ive seen it appears that some of Mrs Ns phone calls omitted the 
necessary prefix. That means that some of her calls didnt get through to            
Great Lakes. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Great Lakes didnt provide an 
appropriate phone service.
Ive looked carefully at the chronology of events. Great Lakes gave Mrs N 
appropriate information when she first notified it of the claim. It sent confirmation 
of cover and the name of its network hospital to Mr K and Mrs N. Unfortunately, 
the paramedics took Mr K to a different hospital, IM hospital. Great Lakes wasnt 
responsible for that.
Great Lakes investigation notes following Mr Ks complaint indicate that it is 
aware that IM hospital is insistent that patients pay then claim from their insurers, 
rather than agreeing to accept a guarantee of payment. That was why Mr K was 
referred to Great Lakes network hospital, rather than IM hospital. 
Great Lakes contacted Mrs N by phone and when it discovered that Mr K had 
been taken to IM hospital, it acted promptly and sent guarantee of payment to 
that hospital. Ive thought about whether Great Lakes was at fault for failing to do 
more at this point, but I dont think that it was. I doubt that Great Lakes would 
have been able to persuade IM hospital to accept its guarantee of payment or 
transfer Mr K to its network hospital  something it had already refused to do. So, 
I dont think that an enquiry from Great Lakes to IM hospital would have altered 
the outcome. 
In the circumstances that arose here - being taken to the wrong hospital which 
required payment in advance of treatment - the only options open to Mr K were to 
pay directly for hospital services or move to a different hospital. He did the latter. 
Mr K and Mrs N were concerned about their treatment at both IM hospital and, 
subsequently, the public hospital. As they are aware, Great Lakes isnt 
responsible for the hospitals actions. When Great Lakes spoke with Mrs N when Mr K was at IM hospital, she said that 
she would call them back. Great Lakes didnt hear from Mrs N again until it called 
her when they were back in the UK. As it was waiting to hear from Mrs N, I dont 
think that Great Lakes was at fault in not contacting her or Mr K sooner. 
I appreciate that Mr K and Mrs Ns motivation in bringing the complaint was to 
prevent distress for others. This service cant direct Great Lakes generally, but 
we can look at what happened in their claim. Having considered everything, I 
dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably in handling the 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman