DRN-3112560
The complaint
Ms B complains that an error on Yorkshire Building Societys mobile banking app caused her 
to send a transaction twice.
What happened
Ms B holds an account with Yorkshire Building Society. She downloaded its mobile app and 
wanted to make a payment to her daughter who was with her at the time.
Ms B said when she tried to make the transfer, she got an error message saying something 
had gone wrong and that she should check her balance. She said she checked the balance 
and noticed it hadnt changed so tried to make the transfer again. Shes said that when she 
attempted to make the transfer a second time, the same message was shown to her.
Ms B logged out of the mobile banking app and logged in online. Upon doing so she noticed 
the amount she wanted to transfer to her daughter had been transferred, twice. Ms B was 
able to get the money back from her daughter without issue.
Ms B complained to Yorkshire Building Society. She said the experience had caused her 
distress and she was worried what the consequences would have been had the transfer not 
been to her daughter who was with her at the time.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had no log of errors on its 
system that day and thinks the message likely occurred due to the transaction timing out.
Ms B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She said that while she didnt disbelieve Ms Bs account of what 
happened, she hadnt seen enough evidence to support there was an error with Yorkshire 
Building Societys system. Whats more, she thought the issue was resolved quickly, and 
Ms B got the duplicated payment back. So even if there was an error  she didnt think any 
compensation was due.
Ms B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
Ms B was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Like our investigator, I dont disbelieve Ms Bs version of events. Its entirely plausible that 
the events leading to these two transfers occurred exactly as shes explained. However, 
Yorkshire Building Society hasnt been able to find any record of an error on its system.
The truth is Ill never really know what happened. On the one hand I have Ms Bs plausible 
version of events, and on the other hand I have Yorkshire Building Societys system 
information showing no errors. I cant be sure whether there was any error with Yorkshire 
Building Societys systems. What I can be sure of is that Ms B understood there was one, 
and took the action she took  making the transaction a second time  on the basis of that 
understanding.
So, even though I cant be sure there was an error, Ive considered the impact of any error, 
and here, that impact is minimal. I appreciate Ms Bs concerns that she could have 
inadvertently paid another party twice. But that isnt what happened here. Ms B transferred 
the money to her daughter, with the help of her daughter, who was with her at the time. So 
after logging out the mobile app and logging back in online it was clear where the money had 
gone and that it hadnt disappeared or been sent to another account.
Ms B hasnt lost out financially  she got the duplicated payment easily returned to her. And 
while I appreciate any error (although not confirmed) would have caused a level of distress 
to her, based on the circumstances, I dont think that distress warrants compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman