DRN-2101739
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with National House-Building Councils handling of her property damage 
claim under her Buildmark home insurance warranty.
Ill refer to all NHBC representatives as NHBC throughout the decision.
What happened
Ms M made a claim under section three of her insurance within the 10 years the warranty 
allows for a valid claim. Ms M referred to damage in several different areas of the property:
Render coming away at the back;
Water marking render at the front;
The front door at the wrong angle;
Gable end wall cracking;
Cracked kitchen floor tiles.
NHBC didnt accept the claim. In relation to the items it said  in the same order:
There was no physical damage to the home, so this wasnt covered;
The same for item two and this wasnt caused by a defect;
Item three wasnt investigated as the insurance simply didnt cover this;
The policy excludes shrinkage and there was no physical damage caused by a defect;
Item five wasnt a structural issue. The policy excluded shrinkage and there wasnt any physical 
damage caused by a defect.
Unhappy with this Ms M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He referred to the wording which said NHBC 
would pay for any physical damage caused by a defect. He also noted shrinkage and 
damage that was purely cosmetic was excluded. Our investigator referred to the NHBC 
investigation report and the independent expert findings. Across the five areas claimed for 
he didnt think NHBC had made any errors. He said it acted reasonably when it declined the 
claim.
Ms M didnt accept this and asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy specifically states:
What NHBC will not pay for
Damage caused by shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different types of 
materials.
Damage which is purely cosmetic, such as minor cracking, spalling or mortar erosion to 
brickwork, which does not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of the Home or 
which only affects decorations.
The items listed in both categories here are fairly standard when it comes to these policies 
so theres nothing in there that strikes me as being in anyway unusual. As youll see from the 
above there are also general conditions that apply to the policy. The applicable ones here 
are;
Wear and tear.
Damage caused by neglect or failure to carry out normal maintenance.
Dampness, condensation or shrinkage not caused by a Defect.
The policy refers to what is considered to be a defect:
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed by him 
or acting for him. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC Requirements does 
not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other ways that the required performance 
can be achieved.
I think these exclusions and wording details are clear and Id say these are standard 
throughout the building insurance warranty market.
Render at the back of the property
NHBC said in its final response that the areas of concern would be considered as normal 
house maintenance. Under the terms of the Buildmark policy enclosed, you will find the 
General Exclusions for claims to NHBC on page 2. Part f explains that NHBC will not be 
liable for damage caused by neglect or failure to carry out normal maintenance. Therefore, 
this item is not valid.
The independent expert said: the paintwork is flaking under the window cills. I expect this is 
where the dpc expels water from the cills and was likely damp at the time the house was 
painted. The same can be said for the dining room rear elevation. Probably made worse with 
the plumbing leak. The render above the dining room window doesnt look well rendered but 
the render is sound and looks worse than it is as the paint is also flaking due to dampness 
for the pipe work.
So, with nothing to suggest there was anything within the wording to say this was covered I 
think NHBC acted reasonably when it declined to deal with this.
Water marking render at the front
NHBC said the render to this area was sound and there was no damp evident to either of 
the rooms at each side of the front door/hall. It was considered that water running to the end 
of the trapper bar was causing the damp staining. This has been caused by the level access 
at the front door blocking the weep holes to the trapper bar.NHBC said although there was damage, it wasnt caused by a defect in a part of the home 
listed as covered. So, it wouldnt pay this. In line with the wording I think NHBC acted 
reasonably.
Front door at wrong angle
NHBC confirmed that in relation to the front door cover would only apply to the glazing 
panes. It said this part of the claim wasnt valid. In line with the terms and conditions I think 
thats reasonable.
Gable end wall cracking
NHBCs investigation report said cracking experienced internally and externally were due to 
shrinkage and thermal movement. Advice was given on how to remedy the issue as a part of 
normal household maintenance.
The independent contractor said, This I took to be general shrinkage and settlement 
cracking.
As noted from the wording at the start of the my findings section above, this is excluded and 
so I think NHBC reasonably said it wouldnt deal with this.
Cracked kitchen floor tiles
NHBCs investigation report referred to this the cracking was caused by thermal movement 
and shrinkage, which, as mentioned above, is not covered under section 3 of the policy. 
Page 13 also advises that NHBC will not pay for damage which is purely cosmetic, such as 
minor cracking, which does not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of the 
home. This item was not found to be structural.
The independent expert made similar findings. So, I think NHBC acted reasonably when it 
said it wouldnt deal with this part of the claim.
Ms M did afterwards get an independent inspection done but this was many years later and 
NHBC said this didnt change the outcome. I think thats fair. I can only base my findings on 
what NHBC, and the independent expert found at the time and I think NHBC acted in line 
with the insurance wording.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against National House-Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman