DRN-2782735
The complaint
Ms G complains that car finance arranged by Sytner Limited (acting as credit broker) was 
mis-sold, when she acquired a used car from a third party lender.   
What happened
Ms G took out this finance in 2015 in the form of a hire purchase agreement (HPA) - of the 
sort thats also commonly referred to as a personal contract purchase or PCP. One of the 
features of this type of finance is the borrower has the option to purchase the car at the end 
for a Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) (sometimes called a balloon payment) which, in this 
case, was almost £10,000. 
When the PCP ended in 2018, Ms G was upset to find she didnt have as much equity as 
she expected in the car. Shed part-exchanged an existing vehicle when she took out the 
PCP and used the £9,000 trade in value as part of the deposit. She says, when the PCP 
ended, staff at the dealership told her she should never have put down such a large deposit 
and there were issues with the salesperson that arranged the finance in 2015. 
Ms G feels the PCP was mis-sold in that :-
she felt pressured to sign the agreement and buy extra products;
she did so without discussing it properly  she never spoke to anyone from Sytners 
finance department;
she should have been told shed pay more overall if she put down such a large 
deposit;
she was misled simply to get the deal done by the end of the month; and
she should have been advised about other more appropriate finance options. 
Ms G wants Sytner to refund the difference between the deposit she paid and any 
corresponding increase in monthly payments if she hadnt put down such a large deposit. By 
way of example, she thinks her payments would only have increased by about £150 a month 
if shed put down about £2,000 - so shed be nearly £5,000 better off overall.  
Sytner doesnt agree the finance was mis-sold. It says this was not an advised sale and Ms 
G wasnt mis-led. She was given all the information she needed in order to decide if the PCP 
suited her needs and it was up to her to consider this before she signed the agreement.  
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She couldnt be certain what was said at 
the relevant time so she looked at the paperwork supplied to Ms G. This includes a 
Demands & Needs Questionnaire (DNQ) and other pre-credit contract information (PCCI) 
along with a Status Disclosure Document (SDD) - that explained Sytner wasnt independent 
and didnt provide advice  as well as the PCP itself. She was satisfied that Ms G had 
enough time and information to decide if the PCP suited her needs before she took it out. 
And she considered it was clear from the paperwork that it would cost nearly £10,000 if Ms 
G wanted to keep the car at the end. She wasnt persuaded Sytner did anything wrong and 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms G was unhappy with that outcome. She said she didnt receive the DNQ until after the 
sale, she had no contact with Sytners finance department, other finance options werent 
discussed or quoted, she wasnt told she should take independent advice and paperwork 
was still being sent to her months after the sale. Ms G supplied an email Sytner sent in June 
2015 containing the finance documents. She also sent us several finance quotes showing 
calculations based on different deposit amounts. She said the GTV remains the same no 
matter what size of deposit is paid  so the GTV in her PCP wouldnt have changed and 
shed be better off if shed paid a lower deposit. She feels she should have been told to put 
down a smaller deposit or given alternative funding options at the outset. 
The investigator considered the additional information but this didnt change her view. Shes 
satisfied the June email relates to insurance, not car finance. She acknowledged the DNQ is 
dated a few days after the sale but she thought it was reasonable to expect Ms G to have 
raised concerns at the time if she didnt receive the information referred to. She considered 
the calculations Ms G supplied. She wasnt persuaded Ms G was necessarily worse off 
financially because she paid a large deposit. She thinks the monthly payments would have 
increased if a lower deposit was paid so Ms G would have needed to borrow more incurring 
additional interest and increasing the total amount payable. 
Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. She thinks the investigator gave Sytner 
the benefit of the doubt where there was any ambiguity or lack of documentation  which is 
particularly unfair because she feels Sytner should have maintained better records. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms G has strong feelings about this matter. I want to assure her that Ive 
considered carefully everything shes said and sent to us. If I dont address every point she 
raised that doesnt mean I havent thought about it - I have. But, Im going to focus in this 
decision on what I think are the key facts and issues necessary to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome. The rules that apply to our service allow me to do this and it reflects 
the informal nature of the dispute resolution we provide. 
Its clear that Sytner and Ms G have different views about what happened when she took out 
this PCP in 2015. The conversations between Ms G and the salesperson werent recorded in 
any way so I cant be certain what was said exactly. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I think its reasonable to look at the paperwork provided to Ms G at the time she took out the 
PCP in this situation - as thats likely to provide the best evidence of what the parties agreed. 
Ive read the PCP agreement Ms G signed. I think this sets out reasonably prominently (on 
the first page) the price of the car, the amount Ms G was borrowing, how much she had to 
pay back, the size of her monthly payments, the length of the agreement, how much shed 
have to pay if she wanted to keep the car at the end and her right to withdraw from the 
finance if she changed her mind (within a limited period). 
Ive also seen other paperwork that Ms G signed - to confirm that shed received a pre-
contract explanation (PCE) and PCCI before she signed the PCP. Im satisfied these 
documents would have drawn Ms Gs attention to the key terms and conditions of the 
finance. I can see that Ms G also signed the DNQ to acknowledge that shed received the SDD, seen the finance summary, had all the finance products available explained and 
decided to take out this particular form of finance. 
I accept the DNQ seems to have been signed and dated a few days after the PCP. But, if 
this document was inaccurate - or Ms G hadnt received the additional information it refers to 
- I think it would have been reasonable for her to say so at the time. Ms G has a legal 
background so shes likely to appreciate the significance of signing such documents. Ive 
seen nothing to show that she raised any issue about missing paperwork around the time 
she took out the PCP. And, on balance, I find it more likely than not she was provided with 
this information. 
Im satisfied the SDD explained that Sytner wasnt an independent financial adviser and it 
could introduce only a limited number of lenders who provide a range of products that might 
be suitable. I think Sytners role here was to inform Ms G about suitable products, explain 
the key features and provide enough information to enable her to decide if she wanted to 
proceed. And Im not persuaded Ms G should reasonably have been misled about that. 
I think its reasonable to expect any borrower to check the key terms before taking on this 
sort of financial commitment - even if they dont read every single paragraph. And, having 
considered all the available evidence - including the paperwork signed by Ms G and what 
she told us about the sale  I find she had enough information to make an informed decision 
about whether this PCP was the right product for her. 
Im satisfied a PCP provided some flexibility - in that Ms G had the option to return the car 
with nothing further to pay if its actual value at the end was less than the GTV  or, if the 
value was higher, Ms G would have been able to put any equity towards another car. And I 
cant fairly conclude that this PCP was unsuitable for her, on the evidence Ive seen. 
I realise Ms G feels strongly that putting down such a large deposit was a mistake and shes 
lost out financially. I cant be certain what the precise impact of a smaller payment might 
have been - I think there are a number of variables that could have been affected by the size 
of deposit paid. I accept the amount of deposit would not however have reduced the price of 
the car (at the outset) or the GTV - these would have stayed the same. And its difficult to 
see how Ms G could have avoided borrowing more had she paid a lower deposit - which 
would, in turn, likely have increased the amount she had to repay under this finance, overall. 
Ultimately, I think it was a matter for Mrs G to decide how much she wanted to pay by way of 
deposit in this situation. I understand she was disappointed when she found out the car 
wasnt worth as much as she hoped at the end of the agreement  so, in effect, she didnt 
have the equity she wanted. But, I think she was made reasonably aware at the outset that 
such equity was not guaranteed. 
Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably conclude that this finance was 
misrepresented and Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint. I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms G, 
because its not the outcome she wanted. But, shes not obliged to accept what Ive said, in 
which case it remains open to Ms G to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman