DRN-2857727
The complaint
Miss H complains about the excess she was charged after making a claim on her motor 
warranty provided by Volkswagen Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (VW). Reference to VW 
includes its agents.
What happened
Miss H holds a motor warranty with VW. She took her car in to a repairer to get two issues 
fixed. One issue related to the fuel filler cap, and the other issue related to the shock 
absorber. Miss H wanted to claim for the cost of the damage from her warranty with VW.
Miss H was expecting to pay £100 toward the claim, as that was the excess listed in the 
policy. But VW said as the issues were unrelated, they needed to be treated as two claims, 
and so two excesses were applied and Miss H was charged £200.
Miss H wasnt happy with this and complained. She said she was told by the repairing 
garage that the claim would be subject to one excess. Shes said theres nothing in the terms 
of the policy which says that two different repairs need to be treated as two claims. Shes 
said she made one claim, so should be charged one excess.
VW maintained it was entitled to charge two excesses and so Miss H brought her complaint 
to us. Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She appreciated that technically only 
one claim was submitted. But she thought that as the two faults being claimed for were 
separate, and occurred at different times, she thought it was fair VW treat them as two 
separate claims.
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She doesnt think VW should be 
allowed to charge two excesses as the policy says the excess is per claim. And she says 
she only made one claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. I know this wont be the answer she 
was hoping for. Ill explain my reason.
Miss Hs policy explains that the excess is the amount she has to pay toward any claim she 
makes  and that excess is £100. Shes said shes only made one claim. And I can see that 
perspective. Theres nothing in the policy which says she cant claim for multiple repairs 
under one claim either.
Here, its clear that the two faults being claimed for are separate. Thats not in dispute. They 
relate to different parts of the car, and theres no suggestion that one caused the other. 
Miss H said she took the car in for repair when she noticed an issue with the steering, but 
that prior to doing so, shed noticed the issue with the fuel cap.
While the policy doesnt specifically say Miss H cant claim for two separate faults under the 
same claim. The policy is clear in what it covers. In the policy VW say:
We will pay for the costs of repairing or replacing the factory-fitted mechanical and electrical 
components of your vehicle that have suffered sudden failure during the period of cover 
subject to the maximum claim limit and the terms and conditions of this policy.
We will also pay for the costs of repairing or replacing the covered factory fitted mechanical 
and electrical components of your vehicle that have suffered sudden failure as a result of 
water ingress.
We will also pay for the costs of consequential failure of a covered component subject to the 
maximum claims limit and the terms and conditions of this policy
I think the above sets out that the purpose of the policy is to cover faults, and that it will 
cover consequential failures too. So had Miss Hs two faults been connected, i.e. that one 
was the consequence of the other, then I think it would be reasonable to treat the two faults 
as one claim. But thats not the case here, the two faults are completely separate.
As mentioned above, I appreciate the policy doesnt specifically say that multiple issues cant 
be claimed for together under one claim. Generally speaking a claim relates to a specific 
insured event. Here the insured event is the sudden an unexpected failure of a mechanical 
or electrical component. And in this particular case theres been two separate insured 
events. The first being the failure of the fuel filter cap, the second the failure of the shock 
absorbers. 
I appreciate that Miss H feels shes only made one claim, and that this view was supported 
by the repairing garage. But its not the role of the garage to determine what excess needs to 
be paid, thats VWs role.
So while the two faults were presented as one claim, I think VW was acting fairly by treating 
them as two separate claims. It follows that VW can charge two excesses.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman