DRN-1515144
 
The complaint
Mr B complained that his Lloyds Bank PLC card was blocked. He was unable to make 
transactions on a popular online auction site for 24 hours. 
What happened
Mr B was making purchases on a popular online auction site when he suddenly found his 
card blocked. He contacted Lloyds, but he said it didnt do anything about it. So he couldnt 
use the card for 24 hours. 
Lloyds said that when Mr B called, it confirmed the card would no longer work, as the 
maximum number of transactions had been reached for the day. And Lloyds realised then 
that it had an incorrect number for Mr B on its records. 
Lloyds said that there are limits on various payment methods, including card usage. The 
limits arent set out in the terms and conditions, because they can vary with commercial and 
security considerations. But Mr B had reached the maximum number of transactions per 
day. And in this case, Lloyds said that the transactions Mr B made had each been preceded 
by a transaction for a nil amount, before the transaction to the merchant. This effectively 
meant each payment Mr B made counted as two. Lloyds said it couldnt do anything about 
that, as the auction site had requested these payments. 
Lloyds said it had also updated Mr Bs phone number. It appreciated that holding an 
incorrect number had caused him concern, so it paid him £50 in compensation. And it paid 
his call costs, of £18. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said banks are required to 
take steps to prevent fraud, and the terms of Mr Bs account allow for this. Those terms also 
say that Mr B can contact Lloyds to ask why payments have been refused. Mr B did that, 
and Lloyds explained hed reached the daily transaction limit. Our investigator said she 
couldnt ask Lloyds to do anything differently. 
Mr B replied to say that a high level of transactions alone isnt enough to suspect fraud. And 
when he contacted Lloyds, his card should immediately have been unblocked, because 
there could no longer be any suspicion of fraud after that. He said if there had been any real 
concern, Lloyds wouldve reissued his card, and reset his phone banking codes, which it 
didnt do. He understood Lloyds had logged twice the number of transactions than hed 
actually made. He said that any small transaction which precedes the actual transaction and 
is reversed (a pre-authorisation) shouldnt count towards the transaction total for the day. 
And he didnt think even double the number of transactions that he had made would be a 
suspicious number. He said if Lloyds was going to block cards after a set number of 
transactions, it should tell its customers that. This shouldve been in the terms of his account. 
Lloyds is required to be clear, and it hadnt been. He thought that Lloyds had breached the 
banking code, and he wanted us to consider that.Mr B also said Lloyds paid £50 for inconvenience and £18 for call costs, but that was 
because it held an incorrect phone number for him. It wasnt to do with this complaint. 
Mr B said he wanted Lloyds to amend the terms of the account, to state clearly that theres a 
daily limit for transactions and set out what that is. He wanted the bank to count one 
purchase as one transaction. He wanted the bank either to abide by the true definition of 
reasonably, or to update its terms to explain how it was using this word. 
Mr B wanted the bank to unblock his card immediately in future. And he wanted 
compensation for unclear terms which prevented him from making informed decisions, for 
the banks decision to block his card on the spurious notion of reasonably suspecting fraud, 
for the banks refusal to immediately unblock the card, and for its insistence on counting one 
purchase as two transactions. 
Because our investigator and Mr B didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator. 
Lloyds has confirmed to our service that this daily transaction limit is part of its internal fraud 
protections. It also says it is exceptional for this limit to be reached, in cases not involving 
any element of fraud. Its explained that removing this limit would put both it and Mr B at far 
greater risk of fraud. Ive considered this last point carefully, and I think thats right. 
Mr B wanted Lloyds to make a number of changes to its systems, to alter how this daily limit 
works. He said it should be possible to remove it straight away. Transactions for a nil amount 
(pre-authorisations) shouldnt count towards the limit. And it should explain the limit, in detail, 
in its terms and conditions. Hes asking Lloyds to make a sizeable change to how it 
operates, for a problem which Lloyds has told us only occurs extremely rarely. 
Im not able to tell Lloyds to make these changes. Its not the role of our service to tell Lloyds 
how to manage its banking operations. I can just look at what has happened in this case, 
and see if its fair and reasonable. 
As this daily limit provides an important element of fraud protection, and as its very unusual 
for it to be reached, I dont think the limit is unfair or unreasonable. 
I know that this limit isnt explained fully to Mr B as part of the terms of his account. Lloyds 
has said that it doesnt publicise this, because it thinks that doing so might also increase the 
risk of fraud. I think that is also reasonable. I wouldnt expect all of the details of how banks 
combat fraud to be set out in the terms and conditions, for exactly this reason.
Mr B was making purchases from an online auction site, and paying for those using a 
popular electronic money provider. Lloyds has mentioned that Mr B is able to fund 
purchases like this through a bank transfer, or direct debit, to that electronic money provider. 
He can fund purchases as he goes, or with a lump sum payment transferred to the electronic 
money provider in advance. I think its relevant that Lloyds daily limit on card transactions 
doesnt have to restrict the number of purchases Mr B makes on the online auction site. 
I know Mr B feels strongly about this complaint, and Im aware that the compensation Lloyds 
has paid him wasnt for the key issue hes complained about. But Ive considered this case carefully, and I dont think that Lloyds has been unfair or unreasonable. So, although I know 
Mr B will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman