DRN-4001606
The complaint
L, a firm, complains on behalf of Mrs D that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly issued her 
with, and raised the limit on, a credit account.
What happened
Mrs D successfully applied to Studio for a credit account in May 2020. The initial credit limit 
was £300, which was raised to £600 in May 2021.
At the time of applying for the account Mrs D has told us she was in a debt management 
plan with a debt advice charity and had been since 2011. She used most of the limit on the 
card and could only afford the minimum payments. After the limit was increased she 
obtained a consolidation loan to pay it off, but soon used the account up to the limit again. 
She is now in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and the balance owing to Studio is 
in that IVA.
Studio said that it is a responsible lender and carefully follows the rules and guidelines set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Based on its policies and the regulatory 
guidelines at the time of the application in May 2020, Studio undertook creditworthiness and 
affordability assessments. The checks were proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
available, their financial situation at the time and her existing and any known future financial 
commitments. 
Studio says it undertook detailed checks on Mrs Ds credit history. It found that she was on a 
debt management plan. But she had no accounts in arrears or any CCJs (County Court 
Judgments) or Bankruptcies. Having assessed her income and expenditure it determined 
that she would be able to afford the minimum recommended monthly payment of £18 for a 
£300 limit.
When increasing the limit Studio noted that Mrs D had used on average 90% of the limit and 
had gone over the limit twice, but by a minimal amount. It says it carried out proportionate 
checks using internal and external data. It assessed that the increase in limit was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our Investigator noted that Mrs Ds use of the limit 
remained at 90% up until the increase. She had also gone over the limit twice, and only paid 
the minimum payment each month. So whilst she thought the original issue of the account 
was fair, Studio shouldnt have increased the limit, so should repay all interest and charges 
beyond the original £300 limit.
Studio didnt agree. It pointed out that Mrs Ds use of the account was going well until it 
received notification that she was in an IVA (in July 2022).. She had a very low risk score 
from the Credit Reference Agency (CRA) and an extremely low indebtedness index. It used 
a second CRA which assessed an affordable limit of £1,600.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. I asked to see Mrs Ds bank 
statements, and she has produced these for March to May 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mrs Ds complaint. 
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. 
There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to ensure the 
checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of credit being 
provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the consumers 
circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit 
increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether 
theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Studio complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs D would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application or increase in credit 
limit, was there a point where Studio ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing 
Mrs Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further credit?
I note Studios response to our Investigators view. From the information I have seen I think 
Mrs R was able to afford the payments on the account with a £300 credit limit. She was in a 
debt management plan though she tells us she had been in one from 2011. The credit limit 
was modest and I think Studio carried out proportionate checks. From her use of the 
account, although she went over the limit twice this was by a minimal amount and generally 
she seemed to be just able to cope with the £300 limit, albeit that she was using 90% of it for 
the most part.
For the increase in the limit, it appears that Studio carried out credit checks with two CRAs, 
which it says showed that she was able to afford the increase. As it was a 100% increase I 
think Studio was right to carry out the credit checks. I do think that going over the limit, even 
by a minimal amount, and using most of the limit for a year whilst making the minimum 
payments, does indicate that she might have had difficulty coping with a doubling of the limit. 
From my knowledge of such checks, they would also show if her current bank account was, 
and had been, overdrawn. From her bank statements, it appears that Mrs Ds bank account 
was constantly overdrawn, by up to £1,200, only reduced when she was paid her income 
and benefits, or at times by loan monies. The statements also show a £226 monthly 
payment to a debt advice charity which would indicate a high level of indebtedness. And I 
note she later went into an IVA.
Whilst Studio isnt required by the rules to look at bank statements I do think that it would 
have been aware of Mrs Ds use of her overdraft through the credit search it had carried out, 
and should have made further enquiries regarding her income and expenditure. I think that that would have shown that she was unable to afford the increase in the credit limit. 
So, in respect of the increase in the credit limit, I dont think that Studio made a fair lending 
decision. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Studio should have increased Mrs Ds credit limit above £300, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mrs D has had the benefit of all the money they spent on the account so I think 
she should pay this back. Therefore, Studio should take the following actions:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to balances 
above £300. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs D along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Studio should also remove all adverse information recorded after 15 May 2021 
regarding this account from Mrs Ds credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £300, Studio should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs D for the remaining amount, subject to the provisions of 
her IVA. Once Mrs D has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 15 May 2021 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file. 
If Studio has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt from 
the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out promptly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Mrs D should be aware that as she is subject to an IVA, any payment she receives as a 
result of this decision would need to be paid to the supervisor of the IVA, and she should 
inform them.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Studio Retail limited to provide the redress set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman