DRN-2240646
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the redress Henderson Global Investors Limited (HGI) has offered 
him for a mis-sold equity ISA. 
What happened
Mr A, via his representative, made a complaint about the ISA that HGI sold him in 1998 and 
topped up in 2000. It was said the product was unsuitable for Mr A because:
he didnt want any risk associated with his investment and so it was too risky;
he wasnt aware that if he took an income it could eat into the capital;
he didnt have an emergency fund which he should have had; and
he was led to believe the investment would perform better than it did.
The representative asked, if the complaint was upheld, interest be added to the refunded 
premium at a rate of 8% simple per year.
HGI responded to Mr As complaint and concluded the investment hadnt been entirely 
suitable for him at the time it was taken out. It said it had compared the investment against 
the Private Investors Income Total Return Index, in line with our guidance, as it believed this 
more accurately reflected Mr As attitude toward risk at the time of the sale. It offered redress 
of £1,250.65.
Mr As representative didnt consider the offer was appropriate. It said it believed the 
comparator investment should be done using a published benchmark or index. In addition, it 
asked that the standard rate of interest be applied from the date the compensation 
calculation ended to the date the settlement was made.
HGI responded by reiterating the index that had been used for the comparison and that it 
was in line with this services guidance.  It went on to say that where the consumer had 
transferred their ISA to another provider, it does not pay interest on the compensation for 
mis-selling. It didnt provide a reason for this position. 
Mr As representative didnt raise any further concerns about the comparator used, but 
reiterated that interest should be paid from the date of the compensation calculation on the 
amount of the loss. As HGI was unwilling to pay the interest Mr As representative 
considered he was entitled to, it referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She confirmed that as Mr A had been 
deprived of the use of the amount of the loss, interest should be paid on that sum from the 
date of the calculation to the date of settlement.
HGI explained it only paid interest on a loss if the investment had been cashed in. It 
reiterated that it didnt pay interest on any loss suffered if the consumer had kept an 
investment of some sort. It didnt explain why this was the case.
Our investigator again attempted to explain to HGI why it was appropriate for it to pay further 
compensation for the lack of use of the money it had calculated Mr A had lost because of the 
advice it had given him. Whilst it could be viewed that the continued loss should be 
calculated based on what Mr A had done with the money he did have in his ISA, she wasnt 
satisfied, had the ISA not been mis-sold, that was where the money would have ended up. 
She considered it was simpler and more appropriate for interest to be paid on the loss that 
had been identified. HGI said it would consider her comments, however, following a 
significant period to do so and several reminders to respond, it didnt provide any further 
comment.
As agreement couldnt be reached between the parties, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HGI has accepted the ISA sold to Mr A was not suitable for him and calculated the loss he 
had suffered at the point he transferred the investment away from HGI. Mr A and his 
representative have accepted this calculation. In light of this I dont propose to comment on 
those matters, rather I will consider whether Mr A should receive further compensation for 
the loss of use of the amount calculated as his loss from having the inappropriate 
investment. 
HGI appears to accept where a consumer has encashed an investment and suffered a loss 
when doing so, they should be paid interest on that loss because they have been deprived of 
use of the money involved. It pays interest in these circumstances. However, in situations 
where there was a further investment it doesnt pay interest on the loss. It hasnt explained 
the reason for this difference in approach and there doesnt appear to be a logical reason for 
why it has differentiated between the two situations as it has  in both scenarios the 
consumer has been deprived of the use of the amount of the loss. They should be redressed 
for this loss of use in both scenarios. 
Where a further investment was made with the money from within the HGI investment, it 
could be argued that the loss amount would also have been reinvested had it been available 
at the time the HGI investment ended. However, deciding where that investment would have 
been made had the original investment not existed is not something that is simple to 
determine.  I agree with our investigator that simple interest is the appropriate redress in this 
situation, as does HGI in the situation where the investment was completely encashed.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, when 
paying the loss it identified, I require Henderson Global Investors Limited to add simple 
interest at 8% per annum on that loss from the date of its calculation in 2003 to the date of 
settlement.  
If Henderson Global Investors Limited considers it is required to deduct tax from the interest 
payment, it must provide Mr A with documentation for HMRC use detailing the interest and 
tax paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman