DRN-3836990
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded disputed transactions on her 
account. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In April 2021 Miss M says her ex-partner sent two payments to himself from her mobile 
banking app. She said she confronted her ex-partner who said he had made the payments 
using her Face ID and that he would pay her back. 
Miss M contacted Santander in August 2021 and asked it to refund the payments. She said 
her ex-partner, who she was no longer with, told her he had sent the money to himself on 
her phone and that he used Face ID to complete the payments. Miss M said her partner 
must have done this when she was asleep. Santander considered the claim but decided not 
to uphold it because it couldnt identify a third-party compromise to Miss Ms account. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the payments were 
authorised (with Face ID) using Miss Ms mobile banking app and that Face ID on a smart 
phone doesnt work when someones eyes are closed. He said that because Miss M had 
confirmed that no one else knows her online banking passcodes and there were genuine 
transactions in between the disputed payments, he wasnt satisfied the disputed payments 
were fraudulent. 
Miss M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said it was her ex-
partner who had completed the payments and that she had reported him to the police. She 
added that its likely her ex-partner was aware of her passcodes for online banking but that 
he had told her he had used Face ID. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Broadly speaking, Miss M is responsible for any payments that she authorised (either by 
making them herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), and Ive considered these alongside the terms and conditions of Miss Ms account. 
The key questions for me to decide are:
1. were the payments authorised by Miss M; and 
2. 2. if they werent, did Miss M fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with her 
obligations under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of her account?
Miss M has said that her ex-partner made the payments to his account with another bank. 
She says she didnt know he was transferring money out of her account and thinks he made 
the payments whilst she was asleep with Face ID. 
Santander says Face ID was used to login to online banking at the time of the payments. 
And I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be possible for the ex-partner to make the 
payments with Face ID if Miss M was asleep as Im not satisfied this would likely work if her 
eyes were closed. So, I dont find Miss Ms explanation for how her ex-partner was able to 
send the payments without her authorisation persuasive here. 
But I also need to consider that for the payments to be considered authorised, Miss M must 
have consented to them as well  she says she didnt - and that since she came to this 
service has added that her ex-partner might have known her passcodes. As Ive set out 
above, a customer isnt generally responsible for any unauthorised payments. But there are 
exceptions to that. The relevant one here is where a customer failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with their obligations under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions 
of their account by failing to keep their account details safe. 
As a result of the above Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman