DRN-3169080
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society acted irresponsibly in giving him a 
personal loan as he couldnt afford it.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr L took out a personal loan with Nationwide for £2,900. He agreed to 
repay £72.49 per month over five years. Mr L settled the loan in September 2021. 
Mr L complained that the loan was unaffordable and at the time of application he suffered 
from mental health problems and a gambling addiction. He believes if Nationwide had 
carried out the appropriate checks, they wouldnt have lent to him.
Nationwide said that they make their decision based on the amount of risk involved and this 
determines the interest rate offered. Mr L held his mortgage with them which was always 
paid on time and they considered this as one of the many factors when he applied for the 
loan. They also explained they werent aware of Mr Ls situation and a debt balance would 
have appeared on his credit file if there was an issue.
Our investigator said that Nationwide shouldnt have lent to Mr L and felt it was fair for him to 
only repay the amount he borrowed. She asked Nationwide to refund any interest and 
charges along with 8% simple interest. She also asked Nationwide to remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ls credit file. 
Mr L accepted. Nationwide disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and guidance require Nationwide to carry out a credit worthiness 
assessment to ensure any lending is affordable. They were expected to complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks based on Mr Ls individual circumstances to 
understand if he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. They also needed to 
be satisfied that the loan repayments wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences.
In simple terms, this means Nationwide had a responsibility to consider the impact of the 
loan repayment on Mr L and not just the likelihood of getting their money back. There isnt a 
set list of checks that Nationwide need to complete. Instead, the assessment is dependent 
on and proportionate to a number of factors  such as the amount and cost of credit, Mr Ls 
borrowing history etc. So, in theory, these checks could be different from one applicant to 
another.
As part of assessing the application, Nationwide completed a credit check on Mr L and 
verified his income details. They took into account that Mr Ls mortgage was also held with 
Nationwide was fully up to date with no late or missed payments. They also calculated Mr Ls 
expenses using information from his credit file and the average household expenditure 
data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS).
I accept Mr Ls credit file didnt indicate that he had any missed payments, recent defaults or 
county court judgements. But I dont think this means Mr L wasnt struggling with the amount 
of debt he already had. It also isnt enough to show that Mr L could sustainably repay the 
loan. 
I say this because the credit file also showed that in the year leading up to the application, 
Mr L opened six accounts  all of those were unsecured loans. And out of the 14 open 
accounts Mr L had, seven of those accounts were unsecured loans. The total value of those 
loans excluding his mortgage was £47,056 with total monthly repayments of around £1,120. 
This should reasonably have raised red flags and prompted Nationwide to investigate 
further. I say this because taking out several loans over a short period is a common indicator 
that someone is becoming or is overly reliant on credit. Also, the level of Mr Ls indebtedness 
was very high in relation his net monthly income of around £2,770. This should have also 
indicated that there may have been a problem. 
I appreciate that it isnt part of Nationwides process to manually vet every loan application. 
Theyve explained it would be detrimental to their members experience and most likely 
increase the cost of the loan. 
But as I explained, proportionate borrower focussed checks is likely to be different for each 
applicant. In this case, given that the term of Mr Ls loan was for a long period (five years) 
and a significant portion of his monthly income is spent towards credit commitments, 
Nationwide should have done more to ensure Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable 
way.
I dont think the checks Nationwide carried out went far enough. In these circumstances, 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have likely included asking for and verifying 
details of Mr Ls expenses.  Ive thought about what information Nationwide wouldve seen if 
they had done so.
Nationwide calculated that Mr L had a disposable income in excess of £250 after the new 
loan payment was considered. However, they didnt ask Mr L for details of his expenditure. 
They simply used data from the ONS which only provides an estimate of household 
expenditure as opposed to Mr Ls actual expenses each month. 
Mr Ls bank statements for three months prior to the application, show that he spent more 
than he was earning each month and his account had entered into an unarranged overdraft 
of up to around £2,000. There were several gambling transactions showing on his account 
for amounts in excess of £1,000 on some days. And once this was discovered, Nationwide, 
as a responsible lender, wouldnt have agreed to lend to Mr L.
Nationwide have suggested that the loan was affordable as Mr L didnt have any problems 
with keeping up with the loan and mortgage payments. This doesnt make any difference to 
my decision here. I say this because Mr L appears to have kept up with his credit 
commitments by borrowing more funds. He has also told us his family have supported him. Ultimately as Ive explained above, had Nationwide carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, I think it would have been clear that it was unlikely Mr L could repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. And therefore, Nationwides decision to lend to Mr L was irresponsible.
Mr L has spent the money he borrowed so I think its reasonable for him to repay the loan 
capital. But as the loan shouldnt have been given to him, Nationwide should refund all the 
interest and charges Mr L has paid. They should also add 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date the loan was repaid (24 September 2021) until the date of settlement.
Our investigator had also recommended that Nationwide should remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ls credit file. However, based on what Ive seen, Mr L managed his 
account well and settled it early. This means there isnt any adverse information recorded 
about this account. So, there isnt anything negative for Nationwide to remove from Mr Ls 
credit fie.
Putting things right
In summary, Nationwide should:
Refund any interest and charges that Mr L has paid.
Add 8% simple interest* per annum to this refund amount from the date the loan was 
redeemed (24 September 2021) to the date of settlement.
*If Nationwide Building Society considers tax should be deducted from the interest element 
of my award, they should provide Mr L with a certificate of tax, if he requests one, showing 
how much tax they have taken off.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should 
resolve the complaint in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman