DRN-3849012
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund to him the amount by which he was 
overcharged for some beers.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr O used his Starling Bank debit card to pay for some beers when he was 
overseas in January 2021. He says that the cost of the beers was 180 currency units 
and he told the cashier to add 40 currency units so that he could buy a beer after 
work as he had given Mr O some tips on the area  but he says that he was charged 
18,040 currency units and the amount of that transaction on his account statement is 
£668.66. He says that he disputed the payment with Starling Bank but it said that it 
was a chip and PIN sale so it was his responsibility to verify the amount charged. He 
says that that wasnt possible as the card machine only asks for the PIN and there 
was no amount to verify. He also says that the merchant said that it couldnt refund 
him as his bank has to make the refund even though it acknowledges that it is its 
mistake.
Starling Bank said that in order to dispute the transaction under the chargeback 
scheme, the card scheme rules require evidence to be submitted that demonstrates 
that the cardholder was incorrectly charged and that a receipt or invoice with a 
breakdown of the charges can be used as evidence to show the cost of the goods or 
services. Mr O wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that it was unlikely that a chargeback claim would have been successful without 
having any of the supporting documentation set out in the scheme rules. He thought 
that Starling Bank had a good reason not to attempt a chargeback in these 
circumstances and that it had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr O has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that 
he went back to the merchant and made the same purchase and has provided a 
receipt for 180 currency units. He says, in summary and amongst other things, that 
that receipt, or his written evidence, may well have been enough evidence for a 
chargeback claim to be upheld and its not for Starling Bank to make that decision so 
it should have submitted the chargeback claim to see if the evidence was sufficient.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision and I said: I consider that Mr Os 
complaint should be upheld for these reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle 
the dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if 
the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules 
and if theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice 
for a chargeback claim to be made;
Starling Bank didnt make a chargeback claim for the payment that was disputed 
by Mr O because it said that the card scheme rules require evidence to be 
submitted that demonstrates that the cardholder was incorrectly charged and that 
a receipt or invoice with a breakdown of the charges can be used as evidence to 
show the cost of the goods or services;
Mr O had provided it with evidence that demonstrated that he was incorrectly 
charged in the form of the explanation that hed given to it and the receipt that 
hed provided for another transaction  he hadnt provided a receipt for the 
transaction because he says that he wasnt given one;
Im not persuaded that he was required to provide Starling Bank with a receipt for 
the disputed payment in order for it to be able to make a chargeback claim in 
these circumstances;
I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for Starling Bank to have 
made a chargeback claim but it didnt do so and the time limit in which a claim 
could be made has now expired;
the merchant may have defended the chargeback claim in which case I consider 
that it would have been fair and reasonable for Starling Bank to keep the 
payment on Mr Os account  but it may have accepted the chargeback claim in 
which case Starling Bank would be expected to remove the charge from Mr Os 
account;
the payment was authorised by chip and PIN but Mr O has explained the reasons 
that he didnt notice that he was charged an incorrect amount and I dont consider 
that the chip and PIN authorisation is enough to prevent Starling Bank making a 
chargeback claim in these circumstances;
Im not persuaded that Starling Bank has acted correctly and I consider that its 
decision not to make a chargeback claim has removed the possibility of the 
payment being refunded to Mr O; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Starling 
Bank to refund to Mr Os account the difference between the 18,400 currency 
units that he was charged and the 220 currency units that he had agreed to pay.
Subject to any further representations from Mr O and Starling Bank, my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Starling Bank says that Mr O is disputing a 
transaction from January 2021 but the receipt hes provided is from March 2021 as he didnt 
get a receipt initially, and its provided an extract from the scheme providers rules about 
disputes involving gratuity amounts. It says that it doesnt believe that a chargeback would 
have been successful as the receipt doesnt match with the transaction being disputed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. Mr O has explained why he wasnt able to provide a receipt for the 
transaction that he was disputing and I dont consider that his dispute is about the amount of 
the gratuity that he was charged.I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for Starling Bank to have made a 
chargeback claim in these circumstances  but it didnt do so - and I find that it would now be 
fair and reasonable for it to refund to Mr Os account the difference between the 18,400 
currency units that he was charged and the 220 currency units that he had agreed to pay.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Starling Bank to make the refund to Mr O thats 
described above and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and I order Starling Bank Limited to refund to 
Mr Os account the difference between 18,400 and 220 currency units.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman