DRN-2393709
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr R, as he mainly dealt with the issues related to this 
claim.
What happened
Mr R advertised a mobile phone for sale on an online marketplace. A buyer agreed to buy 
the phone. Mr R asked the buyer to make an online payment. Mr R then received an email, 
which he thought was from the online payment company, to say that the payment had been 
made and the funds would be released once the item had been sent. So Mr R posted the 
phone to the buyer. However, when he checked the payment, he found that the email he had 
received wasnt from the online payment company. The payment hadnt been received. So 
Mr R tried to stop the phone from being delivered, but he was unable to do so. Mr R reported 
it to the police, but they were unable to recover the phone.
So, Mr R contacted UKI to make a claim. UKI declined the claim because it said that the 
policy didnt cover loss by deception. When Mr R complained to UKI, it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. However, it offered him £50 compensation to resolve the 
complaint.
When Mr R complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
that UKI had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, which didnt cover loss 
by deception.
As Mr R and Mrs R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the wording of the policy and this confirmed what wasnt covered under theft from 
the home or in the personal possessions section. In the personal possessions section it said: 
We also dont pay for loss or damage:
 for theft involving deception
So, Ive thought about whether the loss was the result of deception. Mr R hasnt been able to 
provide copies of the emails. But he described being sent an email that he later realised was 
fraudulent, as it wasnt from the online payment company that he thought had sent it, which 
asked him to send the phone before the money could be released to him. Taking this into 
account, my view is that it was deception. So, based on the evidence provided, I think that 
UKI acted fairly by declining the claim on the basis that the theft was the result of deception.
Mr R has said that UKI didnt bring this exclusion to his attention when he bought the policy. 
We would normally say that significant or unusual exclusions should be brought to the 
attention of the person buying the policy. However, in my view, the deception exclusion 
isnt unusual in home insurance policies, so I wouldnt have expected it to be specifically 
highlighted. 
Im also aware that Mr R said that he only received the terms and conditions after he took 
out the policy, that he had no reason to read through all the terms and conditions and that he 
wasnt even thinking about being exposed to this type of theft when he took out the policy. 
UKI has confirmed that the terms and conditions were publicly available on its website as 
part of the buying process, but Mr R has said that he didnt have this type of situation in mind 
when he took out the policy. So, on balance, I cant see that this exclusion would have led to 
Mr R choosing a different policy.
Mr R also said that he thought businesses had a duty to provide assistance to customers 
where deception had taken place. As part of considering a claim for deception we would look 
at the circumstances of what happened, including whether the policyholder took reasonable 
care. Based on what Ive seen, it appears that Mr R dealt with parts of the sale outside of the 
online marketplace, which was contrary to the advice given by the website about how to 
complete a sale. It also meant that the protections that would have been in place had he 
done so, werent available to him. On that basis, I think that there were additional steps Mr R 
could have taken to more safely complete the sale. So, Im not persuaded that UKI should 
consider the claim.
Although I appreciate this this will disappoint Mr R, I think that UKI acted fairly when it 
declined the claim and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman