DRN-3103643
The complaint
Mr C says Cumberland Building Society (Cumberland) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C took out the policy in August 2006 along with a mortgage. 
The policy was free for the first six months, but after this, Mr C paid a monthly amount of 
£18.90 for the policy. The policy provided a monthly benefit amount of £360. And if Mr C was 
too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant  the policy would have paid out this amount 
for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Cumberland disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. Having done so, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint because Cumberland recommended the policy to 
Mr C, but I dont think it was right for him. Mr C had two medical conditions when he bought 
the policy which wouldnt have been covered. 
Mr C has explained that the conditions started when he was four years old. Mr C says he 
was on two types of medication. And he eventually had surgery for them in 2015, which 
resulted in him having three months off of work to recover.
Cumberland says that Mr C didnt disclose the conditions during the sale, so the adviser 
couldnt have factored them into their recommendation. And, that as Mr C doesnt appear to 
have taken time off of work for them until a number of years after the sale  it doesnt think 
the advisers recommendation would have been any different.
Looking at the PPI application form, there is a question about PEMCs on it that says, Have 
you suffered, or received medical treatment or advice for any medical condition in the past 
12 months? I can see that the correlating box has been ticked to say no. And I accept that 
Mr C has signed the form to confirm the information provided on it.
 
But there are a number of questions and other details on the form and I cant say for certain 
that Mr C would have read or fully understood everything on it. For example, I dont know 
that Mr C was made aware that medical conditions he had before the 12-month period 
specified also wouldnt be covered.
Given the nature of the conditions Mr C had, I think its more likely than not he would have 
disclosed them if hed been asked more specific questions about his pre-existing medical 
conditions. I also think that If Mr C had been given clearer information about the policy, this 
more likely than not would have prompted him to disclose the details of his medical 
conditions and that he would have thought twice about taking the policy if he knew he would 
never be able to claim for them. I say this because I think its more likely than not Mr C would 
have expected to experience problems with his medical conditions in future  considering 
the nature of them and given the length of time Mr Cs mortgage was due to be in place for.
Ive thought carefully about everything Cumberland has said, but I dont think Mr C would 
have bought the policy if Cumberland had made clear it wasnt right for him. So, I think Mr C 
has lost out because of what Cumberland did wrong. 
Putting things right
Cumberland Building Society should put Mr C in the position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Cumberland Building Society should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Cumberland Building Society 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cumberland Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Cumberland Building Society must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Cumberland Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman