DRN-3299028
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS), following the return of a car under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 27 February 2017, Mrs M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS. She paid a deposit of £12,000 and the agreement was for £31,489 
over 36 months; with monthly payments of £369.29 and a final optional payment of £23,975 
if she wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement came to an end on 27 February 2020. On 3 March, Mrs M told MBFS she 
would be paying off the finance within a few days and keeping the car. But this didnt 
happen. In April 2020, MBFS issued a Notice of Default, which gave Mrs M until 6 May to 
pay a missed payment and return the car. But it wasnt until 10 June that Mrs M contacted 
MBFS to arrange for the car to be collected. And the collection took place in early July.
MBFS invoiced Mrs M for the costs of her keeping the car until July 2020. Mrs M wasnt 
happy with this, and she complained to MBFS. She said that MBFS had told her that she 
wouldnt be liable for any charges after February 2020. But MBFS said they had no record of 
agreeing to waive any charges. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mrs M remained unhappy with the charges, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said, because Mrs M only told MBFS in June 2020 that she was returning 
the car, it was reasonable to conclude that she was still using it up to at least this point. And, 
given Mrs M had use of the car until it was collected, he thought it was only fair that she pays 
for this. He said MBFS had invoiced her for the charges set out in the original agreement, 
which he thought was reasonable. And hes seen no evidence that theyd agreed to waive 
any of these charges. So, he didnt think MBFS needed to do anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She said she didnt use the car between the end of 
the agreement and when it was collected, as lockdown meant she was unable to leave her 
house unless it was for exercise. And she feels that MBFS taking 10 days to respond to 
contact was unreasonable, which made her feel bullied by them.
Because Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear that it was Mrs Ms intention to try to keep the car, 
and ideally refinance the final payment once the agreement ended. And it wasnt until 10 
June 2020, more than three months after the agreement had ended, that she told MBFS 
shed be returning the car. And, if Mrs M initially intended to keep the car, and hadnt 
arranged for replacement transportation, I think its highly likely she continued to use the car.
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments about the lockdown, and how this meant that she was unable 
to use the car. The first UK lockdown was announced on 23 March 2020, which was 24 days 
after the agreement ended. This lockdown ran until 15 June 2020, during which time all non-
essential shops, hospitality venues etc. werent allowed to open. But, during this lockdown, 
essential shops such as supermarkets continued to trade, albeit with social distancing 
restrictions in place. And the car wasnt collected and returned to MBFS until early July.
Given the timeline of the lockdown, I cant agree with Mrs M that she wasnt able to use the 
car between the end of the agreement and when it was collected. For almost the first month 
of this period there was no lockdown and no restrictions; and for around the last month there 
was no lockdown but some restrictions. But, even when the restrictions were at their height, 
Mrs M was still able to use the car for essential travel and essential shopping.
Its clear there was a delay in the collection of the car. But this delay wasnt because the car 
couldnt be collected the car during the lockdown. And Mrs M didnt contact MBFS to arrange 
collection of the car until a few days before the lockdown ended. So, while it may be the 
case that, due to a backlog of cars to be collected because of lockdown, there was a slight 
delay in the car being collected; had the lockdown not happened, Mrs M would still have had 
possession of the car for more than three months before collection was arranged.
Whats more, even if Mrs M chose not to use the car during this period, she still had the 
ability to use the car, and was able to do so if she wished. As such, Im in agreement that 
she should pay for this usage / access to usage. 
The agreement Mrs M signed on 27 February 2017 says If you fail to return the vehicle 
when required to do so to the agreed location, additional days hire charges calculated on a 
pro-rata basis of the monthly payment will be payable to you up until and including the day 
on which the vehicle is returned to us. So, Im satisfied the terms are clear that, if the car 
isnt returned at the end of the agreement, additional charges will be payable.
Given this, Im satisfied that MBFS have acted reasonably by charging Mrs M for the use of 
the car between the end of the agreement and when it was collected.
Mrs M has also commented on the delays in MBFS responding to her contacts. The Covid-
19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. Government advice was for people to work 
from home where possible, and MBFS wouldve needed to adapt their ways of working. And 
this came at a time when, for the same reasons, MBFS experienced a large increase in 
customer contact. So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mrs M to wait around 10 days for a 
response to her contact, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong because they were receiving 
a very high volume of customer contact at a time when their normal operations were 
disrupted due to circumstances outside of their control. So, I wont be asking MBFS to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman