DRN-3484277
The complaint
Ms E complains about issues she encountered and the service received when she tried to
transfer some of her funds held with National Savings and Investments (NSI).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms E and NSI. I wont repeat in detail
what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons
for reaching the outcome I have.
On 24 March 2021 Ms E tried to make a withdrawal from an account held with
NSI. She intended to transfer the funds to a different account to replace funds that she had
withdrawn from that account. The transfer was time specific, as Ms E needed it to complete
before the end of the financial year.
NSIs system flagged the transaction as unusual and a block was temporarily placed on 
Ms Es account whilst NSI looked at the transaction in more detail. The end of financial year 
deadline passed and Ms E contacted NSI on a number of occasions for updates. NSI say 
the block was eventually lifted on 14 April 2021. Ms E says this wasnt communicated to her 
and, in total, seven weeks passed before she was made aware that the block no longer 
applied.
Ms E raised a complaint with NSI. They partially upheld her complaint because of the service
theyd provided and for some communication issues. They awarded Ms E £100. Unhappy,
Ms E referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator
recommended that NSI didnt need to do anything further. Ms E didnt accept, so the
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I sent a copy of my provisional findings to both parties recently. I outlined that I intended to 
increase the compensation award from £100 to £300. As both parties have now had an 
opportunity to respond, Ive now considered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Ms E provided a more detailed response 
outlining why she disagreed. NSI queried the compensation increase but didnt add any new 
points. As my provisional findings form part of this, my final decision, Ive included the 
relevant findings below and will address any points raised in response later in my final 
decision.
Relevant extracts from provisional decision:
The delay in Ms E being able to access her money
Understandably, Ms E was very frustrated when this situation arose. She is correct that
NSIs website states that payments of up to £50,000 would usually around one day to
complete and for larger amounts, a maximum of three days. But in Ms Es case, the payment
was for over £100,000 and this was the first time she had made a large transfer of this
nature.
Coupled with the additional increase in high value frauds and scams that arose during the
COVID-19 pandemic, I dont find it unusual that NSI would flag this transaction as unusual
and one they needed to carry out due diligence on as a responsible financial institution.
The action taken by NSI in taking time to carry out additional checks here is also in line with
the terms and conditions Ms E agreed to:
When carrying out your instructions there may be some situations that cause the
transaction to be delayed. If NS&I identifies a risk to the security of your account, it
may stop, suspend or restrict your ability to make payments out of your account
online or by phone. It will try to let you know before it stops, suspends or restricts
your ability to make withdrawals online or by phone, and give you a reason for doing
this.
Overall, the additional checks NSI decided to carry out were reasonable and proportionate to
the perceived risk.
Ive carefully considered what the impact of this delay was on Ms E. Without going into
detail, she needed this transfer to go through by the end of the financial year [amended]. But 
I find it was reasonable and proportionate of NSI to carry out these  even if it was 
approaching the end of the financial year. As I dont find NSI were unreasonable to pursue 
this course of action, Ive not then considered the financial implications Ms E has described. 
Had I found that NSI acted unreasonably in following their process/policy here, Id then be 
considering how that has financially impacted Ms E.
The service received
NSI accept the service delivered couldve been better. Therefore, my decision will only
consider whether what theyve offered (£100) goes far enough to recognise the impact of the
service delivered on Ms E. In summary, I dont find that it does and Ill explain why below.
But I want to be clear to both parties - my intended decision to increase the compensation to
Ms E is not related to the financial losses shes alleged in this complaint  for the reasons
explained in the previous part of my decision.
Its clear that by the time the block on this account was lifted, the small window Ms E had to
transfer funds to another account had passed and those investment opportunities missed.
Our investigator has referred to this in their assessment. But that doesnt mean the non-
financial impact on Ms E has been lessened. Rather, I find that by NSI not clearly
communicating to Ms E that her account restrictions had been lifted, theyve drawn out the
impact on her for much longer than could be said to be reasonably acceptable.
Weeks of uncertainty and frustration could easily have been avoided if NSI had clearly
communicated that the concerns they had were resolved on or around 14 April 2021.
Instead - it wasnt until around four more weeks had passed that Ms E was clearly updated.
For this reason I intend to direct NSI to increase the compensation for the service theyve
delivered from £100 already paid to £300. This prolonged period of impact was completely
avoidable.cMs Es response to my provisional findings
Ive carefully considered Ms Es response but it doesnt change the outcome Ive reached. 
Ms E has pointed out an issue with the end of financial year deadline for 2021. I have 
amended my decision. Likewise, the provisional findings should have read unusual 
transaction, not usual.  
Firstly, our Service can and does consider the associated financial implication of a 
businesses actions  but only where we find that theyve made an error or done something 
wrong. This is in line with our general approach to complaints we consider.
In Ms Es case Ive considered the evidence, but concluded - on balance, that it wasnt 
wrong of NSI to pause and consider the transactions in more detail - therefore Im not 
making any award for any associated loss (loss of investment opportunity) arising out of their 
actions.
What I have found is that NSI should have communicated that the block had been lifted  
much sooner than they did. To explain this differently, if NSI had concluded their 
investigations and lifted the account block prior to the financial year deadline, then theres a 
clear impact on Ms E as she could have made her transfers prior to the deadline. But in this 
case, NSI didnt conclude their investigations until after the deadline had passed.
Finally, our Services remit doesnt extend to telling businesses to change their processes or 
how they display information related to withdrawals. 
I know my decision will disappoint Ms E, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve her dispute with NSI.
Putting things right
NSI should now pay Ms E a total of £300 compensation. If theyve already paid her £100, 
they now need to pay an additional £200.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. National Savings and 
Investments should now follow my direction as set under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman