DRN-2308663
The complaint
Mrs H complains about advice given by King and Company Accounting and Financial 
Services Limited (King & Co) in respect of their retirement planning. 
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by her daughter Mrs W, but Ill mainly refer to Mrs H in 
the decision. 
What happened
Mrs H and her late husband Mr H were retired from the care home business they own and 
ran with their three adult children. They were long standing clients of King & Co which 
provided accountancy services and tax advice to their business, as well as acting as their 
financial advisors. In addition to their professional relationship of over 30 years they were 
considered family friends.
Mr and Mrs H met with King & Co several times over the years, to review their finances and 
retirement provision. They were higher rate taxpayers with substantial assets including 
properties, investments and cash, and had personal pension plans with various providers. In 
1994 and 1997 when in their fifties Mr and Mrs H were advised to start immediate vesting 
personal pension plans (IVPPs) with provider S as being self-employed they had no 
occupational pension. They could each take 25% as a tax-free lump sum with the remainder 
used to purchase a single-life annuity with a 10-year guarantee period. And in 2012 aged 71 
Mr H was advised to amalgamate two smaller drawdown pots with provider N totalling 
around £78,500 to purchase a joint life enhanced annuity policy with provider P. Mr H had 
been diagnosed with a form of dementia in 2006, so Mrs H had power of attorney to make 
decisions on his behalf. Mr H sadly passed away in 2016.
In May 2019 Mrs H changed advisors and complained to King & Co about the advice it had 
given, saying the care home business provided a generous income so they didnt need the 
additional income from the IVPPS or annuities. The benefits from Mr Hs pensions with N 
have been lost to his estate, and Mrs H would have to live for 18 years to receive the money 
back. Mrs H also complained about the advice to purchase an investment bond which has 
been dealt with separately. 
King & Co said they didnt understand why Mrs H felt their advice was unsuitable as having 
stepped back from their care home business they wanted a steady stream of income 
separate from it. To replace the income Mr H received from his annuity with S since 1994 
which would cease on his death, King & Co recommended he purchase a joint life annuity in 
2012 to benefit from higher rates which would fall after 21 December (G day) when gender 
neutral pricing of annuities was introduced. The income Mr and Mrs H received from their UK 
and overseas property portfolio ceased a few years after 2012 by either being transferred to 
family members or sold. So overall King & Co thought the advice had been suitable for what 
Mr and Mrs H wanted at the time. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into it. Based 
on the reasons why letter she thought the advice in respect of the IVPPs was suitable for 
their requirements at the time. While it was recorded they had no real need for the income, 
the main objective was tax efficiency and to take advantage of high annuity rates. And as the 
income theyve received from these exceeded their investment theres been no financial 
loss. The objective in respect of Mr Hs pension savings with N was recorded as generating 
a secure income not reliant on the care home. And it was important for him to take the 
benefits prior to G day after which annuity rates would be lower for men. The joint life 
annuity would protect Mrs H from the loss of income from Mr Hs IVPP which would cease 
on his death. And hed received an enhancement based on his poor health. At the time any 
uncrystallised pension benefits would have incurred a tax charge of 55% so purchasing an 
annuity after taking tax free cash also saved tax on his death. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs W disagreed saying Mrs H had been vulnerable and her circumstances were 
exceptional. She said Mr and Mrs Hs main objectives had always been to pass on the 
maximum amount to their children who will now be financially disadvantaged. She said 
Mrs H should receive compensation such that she is put back into the position she would 
have been had she not been persuaded to carry out the various arrangements. The 
investigator replied to these comments reiterating her conclusion that King & Co hadnt given 
unsuitable advice. So its been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Let me explain why.
I think much of what Mrs W says is with the benefit of hindsight in relation to the inheritance 
tax position of her mothers estate, as it refers to spending the legacies of future 
generations. But this doesnt mean the advice was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H at the time it 
was given. While I dont doubt Mr and Mrs H wish to pass on their wealth to their children 
after their death, that doesnt appear to have been the main or most pressing objective 
discussed with King & Co. The comments about exceptional circumstances and time limits 
arent relevant to this complaint as King & Co hasnt objected to us considering the complaint 
on the basis of it being made out of time. 
When a relationship has broken down its inevitable there will be differences in the positions 
of the parties. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive based my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence I do have, and the wider circumstances. 
I cant say to what extent Mrs Hs current financial advisor knew about the pension 
arrangements Mr and Mrs H made with King & Co over the years. Nor can I say whether the 
parties remained friends, although the tone and content of the correspondence certainly 
suggests it was friendly. But I dont think these are central to the issue for me to determine, 
which is whether the advice given to Mr and Mrs H was appropriate for their circumstances 
at the time. 
Mrs W alleged King & Co fabricated the 2012 fact find. I bear in mind, like me, she wasnt 
present at those meetings to know for sure what was discussed. I accept Mr H had received 
his dementia diagnosis by that time, but Mrs H had authority to make decisions on his behalf 
and Ive seen nothing to show she lacked capacity to understand the discussions. Shes a 
qualified nurse and had been running a successful business for decades. And it doesnt 
appear Mrs H challenged the reports accuracy at the time. While we take other information, 
such as testimony, into consideration, our service generally gives weight to contemporaneous documentation. So Ive looked carefully at the available information to see 
what information was recorded about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the relevant times. 
The advice to take IVPPs from 1994 - 1997
The 1994 reasons why letter sets out three solutions to a business cashflow problem 
whereby Mr and Mrs H thought they couldnt afford to meet both of two priorities - a tax bill 
and pension provision. King & Co recommended IVPPs with provider S as having the most 
beneficial outcome in terms of cash flow, as well as being a tax efficient means of providing 
a series of income streams over time, separate from the care home business. I dont think 
their desire to be less reliant on the business meant they were concerned it would fail. Tax 
relief was available on the premium, and benefits could be taken immediately, allowing the 
release of 25% tax free cash (TFC) with the remainder used to purchase an annuity. Mrs H 
says they didnt need the income from the IVPPs, and this was acknowledged in the 
recommendation which said although you have no real need of the tax free lump sum or 
pension benefits now, the objective of the investment is merely a tax saving vehicle . The 
TFC and the tax relief on the contribution reduced their tax burden, given they were higher 
rate tax payers. I accept the income from the annuity was taxable and I cant say these were 
the only alternatives open to Mr and Mrs H. But the calculations appear to demonstrate the 
do nothing option of only paying the tax bill wouldve had a less favourable impact on their 
cash flow. And as the income received from the IVPPs has exceeded the amount Mr and 
Mrs H paid, theres been no financial loss. So I cant say the advice wasnt suitable for their 
circumstances at the time. 
The 2012 advice for Mr H to purchase an enhanced annuity 
Mr H had pension savings in a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with provider N which 
didnt offer annuities. King & Co advised taking a tax-free lump sum and then using the funds 
to purchase a joint life enhanced annuity.  Mrs W suggests King & Cos recommendation of 
annuity provider in 2012 was influenced by the commission received. But Mrs Hs complaint 
is that Mr H shouldnt have been advised to purchase any annuity in 2012, so the choice of 
provider isnt relevant here. 
Mrs W also asks why the 2010 suitability letter didnt recommend an annuity, yet the 2012 
report did, when nothing material had changed. But I think some things had changed in that 
period. The 2010 report noted annuity rates werent favourable as both Mr and Mrs H were 
relatively young, and in good health, so an impaired life annuity may not have been 
available. I understand Mr H had been diagnosed with dementia in 2006 but the eligibility 
criteria are generally life limiting conditions such as cancer, stroke, heart disease etc. Apart 
from being two years older in 2012 (annuity rates generally increase with age) the financial 
planning report stated Mr Hs health had deteriorated and hed been diagnosed with early 
stages of a degenerative brain condition in October 2012. And secondly because of G day 
which no longer enabled providers to treat the life expectancy of men and women differently, 
meaning lower annuity rates for men. At this point Mr Hs health condition made him eligible 
for an impaired life (enhanced) annuity based on his reduced life expectancy. And a joint life 
annuity meant Mrs H would continue to receive income from it after he passed away. I 
understand Mrs Hs point about needing to live a further 18 years (which I think means until 
age 90) to receive the money back, but that doesnt make it unsuitable. An annuity 
guarantees an income for life, free from investment risk, no matter how long someone lives. 
The pricing is based on risk but a provider obviously cannot predict exactly how long it will 
need to pay out for. So its possible for someone to receive income over their lifetime which 
far exceeds the pension savings originally used to purchase the annuity. And nowadays life 
expectancy well into the nineties isnt particularly unusual. King & Co provided copies of their appointment diary to evidence several meetings and 
telephone calls with Mr and Mrs H where these matters were discussed. Mrs W says Mr H 
would have been too frail and Mrs H would have been too busy looking after him for such 
calls or meetings to have taken place. I recognise the impact on Mrs H of being her 
husbands carer and Im sure it was sometimes difficult to deal with financial matters. But as 
mentioned earlier this service generally gives weight to documentary evidence from the 
relevant time, and without seeing anything to the contrary Ive no reason to say the material 
submitted by King & Co isnt genuine. On balance I think Mrs H wouldve been able to 
consider the advice as she could read the reports at her convenience, and she was 
authorised to make decisions on Mr Hs behalf. 
Mrs W says Mr Hs SIPP with N should have been left alone to accumulate as he didnt need 
the income. But hed have lost the opportunity to take the 25% tax free lump sum and 
purchasing an annuity after 2012 is likely to have been at less favourable rates. And at the 
time, any uncrystallised pension funds would have been subject to a 55% tax charge which 
the estate would be liable for. So even if Mr H didnt need the income himself, and Mrs H 
doesnt need the income shes entitled to as the joint life, given the tax advantages which is 
what King & Co had been asked to prioritise I cant say the recommendation was unsuitable. 
So overall while I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mrs H I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman