DRN-3944517
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (who Ill 
call Alphera).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Alphera, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality and 
Im telling them to allow Miss B to reject it. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Alphera, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
six years old when supplied and it had already completed about 60,000 miles. So, Id expect 
it to be showing some signs of wear and tear and not to be in perfect condition, as would 
perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
Theres no dispute that the hybrid battery failed on this car in April 2022, about seven 
months after Miss B took receipt of the car. 
The relevant legislation says we should consider whether goods have been durable when 
we think about whether they have been of satisfactory quality. I dont think the battery can 
fairly be said to have been durable.
The independent inspector didnt comment on durability, but he said:
(the manufacturers) guarantee the battery for 6yrs/60,000 miles. As the vehicle was less 
than 7 years old when the battery failed it would be reasonable for the manufacturer to make 
some contribution to the battery/replacement costs.
I think his suggestion that the manufacturer should contribute to the replacement suggests 
the battery had failed prematurely and, regardless, I dont think a reasonable person would 
consider a car to be durable if it needed a £20,000 replacement battery after only 66,000 
miles had been covered.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair 
the car. But here I dont think that would be a reasonable solution. I say that because the car 
failed in April 2022 and as Alphera refused to accept the cars rejection Miss B has 
understandably had to source an alternative car. I think the most reasonable solution would 
now be to allow Miss B to reject the vehicle. 
Putting things right
Alphera will need to collect the car at no cost to Miss B and end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Miss B has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to have the car recovered, and 
to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
Shes explained that the issue has been very distressing for her and has provided 
information from her doctor to explain the impact on her mental health. Whilst I have every 
sympathy for Miss B, I dont think it would be fair to suggest I have sufficient evidence her 
condition is a direct result of the distress caused by Alpheras actions. But I do think shes 
experienced distress and inconvenience, and Im asking Alphera to pay her £250 in respect 
of that.
Miss B was able to drive the car before it failed on 25 April 2022. So, its only fair she pays 
for that use. But the car hasnt been used since then and Im therefore asking Alphera to 
refund any finance instalments paid since that date and waive any that were due but havent 
been paid. Theyll need to add interest to any refund as Miss B has been deprived of that 
money.
Miss B has incurred some legal costs but Im not asking Alphera to refund those. Thats 
because I dont think it was essential for Miss B to instruct solicitors. I think it was possible 
for Miss B to raise her claim through this service without legal support. She could therefore 
have mitigated those expenses.
Miss B has provided evidence to this service that she continued to insure the car until 13 
December 2022. Its not fair for Miss B to be paying insurance for a car she couldnt use, so I 
think Alphera should refund the cost of the insurance that Miss B has paid since April 25, 
2022. From the information Miss B has provided us, I have calculated that as seven months 
at £81.97; a total of £573.79. Alphera will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B paid £250.01 to a main dealership for a diagnostic in May 2022. That cost was incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality and Alphera should 
therefore refund it, with interest, as Miss B has been deprived of the money.
Miss B provided a receipt for new tyres that she wanted refunding. The receipt was originally 
dated 17 February 2021 and that was before Miss B took receipt of the car in September 
2021. Miss B has subsequently provided further versions of the same receipt with different 
dates (February 2022, February 2023 and August 2022). It seems the garage are prepared 
to amend the receipt to whatever date Miss B asks, but that doesnt demonstrate when the 
expense was incurred, and I think it brings the provenance of the document into question. I 
dont therefore think it would be fair to ask Alphera to refund that expense and, even if I was 
persuaded of the provenance of the receipt, tyres are a wear and tear item, and Miss B 
would always have been responsible for replacing them to keep the car roadworthy.
Mileage
Miss B is also concerned about the mileage on the car when she took receipt of it. Shes 
explained that the mileage recorded on the finance documents was a few hundred miles less 
than it was when she took receipt of the car. I dont think that had any impact on what she 
paid for the vehicle as the valuation our investigator completed suggests Miss B paid a 
reasonable market value for the car. I think such a small variation in mileage was unlikely to 
have much of a bearing, if any, on the price Miss B was paying, or her willingness to proceed 
with the agreement, and dont think its something Alphera need to take any action on.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
End the agreement and collect the car.
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution and add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all rentals for the period from 25 April 2022 to the date of settlement as Miss 
B reasonably stopped using the car at this point. Waive any instalments that were 
due but havent been paid and add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund Miss B £823.80 (£250.01 for the diagnostic and £573.79 for insurance) for 
consequential costs. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Pay Miss B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience thats been 
caused.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Miss Bs credit file in 
respect of this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman