DRN-2946633
The complaint
Mr P complains to Plus500UK Ltd about an inaccurate price that led to an illegitimate margin 
call which lost him money when trading options.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, the key facts and arguments are as follows:
Mr P had a trading account with Plus500. On 23 June 2020, he opened two August 
gold options calls, one at 4:05pm at $49.10 and another at 5:23pm at $50.78
A few hours later, just after 9:36pm, that day both positions closed on margin call at 
$61.69, losing him just over £94.
Mr P was unhappy with this and got in touch with Plus500 the same night  he 
mentioned that the price spike wasnt reflective of the underlying market so he 
shouldnt have been closed out, and in fact a take profit ought to have triggered on 
one of the positions. 
Plus500 looked into his concerns and issued their final response in July  they 
explained they quoted rates based on feeds from a range of independent third-party 
reference sources and market data providers, before applying their own spread to set 
their price. They cited a clause from their user agreement which explained that the 
range of sources meant prices might not exactly match what might be seen 
elsewhere. Despite this, they agreed their prices werent reflective of general market 
rates at the time, so they put £90.98 into Mr Ps account  they said the sum was 
based on the best rate the positions could have been closed at during the timeframe, 
along with £25 for the inconvenience.
Unhappy with this, Mr P asked for our help. One of our investigators had a look at 
what had happened but thought the offer made was fair. She said it was difficult for 
us to use hindsight and make an assumption about what Mr P wouldve done had his 
trades not been stopped out, and that we arent able to award potential profits. She 
also pointed out that the following day, the market continued to move against Mr P 
and he could have lost up to £700. 
Mr P remained unhappy. He said trading was automatic and as this price wasnt 
available anywhere, Plus500 must have manually manipulated it. He thought hed 
seen this sort thing a number of times over the years, but this was the first time hed 
challenged it  he wanted historical trades reviewed. He also wasnt happy with 
having his loss largely returned, and he wasnt interested in what wouldve happened 
had the trade stayed open  instead he wanted an explanation about whatd 
happened. Given the disagreement, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr P says this sort of problem has happened before and wants a holistic 
review of all his margin calls since 2011. But this isnt something were here to do for him  
we look into specific concerns that have been raised with the business first. So my review of 
his complaint is limited to the two trades from 23 June 2020 which he has identified. Should 
he have other instances of concern, he remains welcome to raise them with Plus500 directly. 
Plus500 closed Mr Ps trades on margin call. It isnt contested that Plus500 had a contractual 
right to close positions if margin was breached. Mr P doesnt challenge the margin call itself, 
nor does he fail to understand its mechanics. Instead he feels the price upon which it was 
based was illegitimate. 
Plus500 have already agreed the price Mr P achieved here wasnt reflective of the general 
market rates at the time. As this isnt in dispute, what Id usually do is consider whether their 
offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. But before I do that, I note Mr P isnt happy 
with Plus500 simply agreeing something went wrong, he wants to know why something went 
wrong. 
As has already been explained, Plus500 look to a range of third-party providers when setting 
their prices. Theyve been able to show us here that there was a print on Bloomberg at time 
of close out which appeared to be an anomaly  the bid and ask were 25.00 and 63.00 
respectively. So I dont think Plus500s actions here were as malicious or contrived as Mr P 
suspects. Instead, a reliable, independent source shows that on a few occasions during the 
minute in question, the ask did hit 63.00. Despite this, upon review Plus500 agreed that $63 
wasnt a good reflection of the market. So they made an offer to put things right. Ive thought 
about whether this offer was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Plus500 returned most of Mr Ps losses  their reasoning for this was based upon a price he 
could have achieved at the time, along with some compensation. Ive had a look at the 
prices during the minute Mr P was closed out  the ask was between 52.90 to 53.80  so I 
think Plus500s offer based upon 53.40 was a fair mid-point. I also think their compensation 
offer was sufficient given the impact. So I think the payment made was a fair way to resolve 
things. 
Like our investigator said, its difficult not to use hindsight when looking back to consider 
what might have otherwise happened with the trade had it not closed when it did  constant 
movement meant Mr P mightve gone on to make a profit, or he mightve made a loss. I note 
that at the time, the price was slightly against Mr P, so I think the stance Plus500 have taken 
is reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling about his complaint and understand he will remain 
disappointed, but I assure him that my review is based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. From everything Ive seen, I think the steps Plus500 
took to put the inaccuracy right were reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint as Im the satisfied the offer made 
was a fair one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman