DRN-2151347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1987, in connection with a 
joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs M if they couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know the PPI had been added to their account. But theyve 
also said they were put under pressure to take out the PPI, and that Lloyds didnt give them 
a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs M have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Lloyds hasnt been able to provide much information from 
the time the policy was sold, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed.
Im also mindful that these events took place over thirty years ago, and that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs M have told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it probably advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- There is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M werent eligible for the policy given 
their circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
- Mr and Mrs M say they would have received employer benefits if they couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident, and that they had some savings. But the policy would 
have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ms occupational benefits, and wouldve meant 
they could use those benefits and their savings to cover other expenses. So I think Mr 
and Mrs M would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think 
it unlikely better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Ms decision to have it.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs M before they agreed to 
buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. And as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken 
out the policy.
Mr and Mrs M have told me about the industrial accident Mr M suffered shortly after theyd 
bought the policy in 1987. I understand they didnt claim on the PPI at the time, and they say 
this was because they didnt know it had been added to their account. 
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs M have said, and Im obviously sympathetic to their 
circumstances. But I dont think I can safely say that the lack of a claim means the policy was 
mis-sold. So this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint.
The adjudicator has provided Mr and Mrs M with Lloyds contact details, so that they can 
explore with the bank whether it is now possible to make a retrospective claim on the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman