DRN-4258521
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) irresponsibly granted him a personal loan 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr S took out a personal loan with Ikano. Under the terms of the loan 
agreement, Mr S was borrowing £15,000 and paying it back by way of 59 payments of 
£272.96 followed by one payment of £272.85. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£16,377.49.
Mr S settled the outstanding balance on the account in February 2022. 
Mr S says that Ikano didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable as he was already struggling with debt, including 
existing credit. Ikano didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which 
included using the information Mr S gave in his application and information provided by a  
credit reference agency. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Ikano ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr S.
Ikano didnt agree and said its checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Mr S applied for the agreement, he told Ikano he was earning around £27,000 from 
self-employed income. He also stated that he was paying £900 in rent each month. Ikano 
said it checked with a credit reference agency which showed Mr S to be a low lending risk, 
although it hasnt provided us with a copy of this. Mr S sent us his credit report which shows 
that he didnt have any adverse markings on his credit file, such as arrears, and there was 
no recent history of other adverse events such as having a county court judgment registered 
against him. Ive seen Mr S had some existing credit, largely by way of three credit card 
accounts, which I think its reasonable to assume that Ikano would have been aware of this 
from its own credit checks. 
From the available information I cant say that Ikano took steps to verify Mr Ss income. I 
think it would be reasonable to do so, especially given that hed told Ikano he was 
self-employed. And given that this was a relatively substantial loan that would be repayable 
over five years, I think Ikano should have asked Mr S for more details about his expenditure. 
Although Ikano says it completed a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Ss 
regular living expenses were. So I dont think Ikanos checks can be said to be reasonable 
and proportionate. 
Had it carried out better proportionate checks before making its lending decision, I think 
Ikano would have been in a much better position to understand more about Mr Ss 
committed expenditure, such as his daily living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Ikano 
would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ss bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive seen that Mr S provided our adjudicator with three months of bank statements leading 
up to the lending decision. I agree with our adjudicator that these show Mr Ss current 
account was consistently overdrawn at around £2-2,500. Ive seen that Mr S was using his 
income and available bank balance for spending on everyday living expenses as well as 
paying his existing credit commitments. In addition, he was constantly having to pay his bank 
for being overdrawn. 
Before our adjudicator prepared his uphold view, Mr S had sent in some further bank 
statements for a separate account. This was in response to a query by our adjudicator as to 
what other sources of income/funding Mr S may have had available to him at the time. 
The second set of bank statements shows Mr S receiving his self-employed income, some of 
which was then transferred over to the other account. Mr S explained he also used this 
account to save towards having to pay his tax liability. As our adjudicator noted, this account 
was modestly in credit but shortly before the lending decision it was showing funds of only 
around £100.
Putting together all the bank statement information Ive seen, I think Mr S was financially 
stretched at the time he applied for the loan. Having seen his credit report, I can see he was 
also relying heavily on his credit cards. I think occasional use of an overdraft facility is 
sometimes to be expected. But Mr Ss account shows heavy reliance on his overdraft facility 
without ever being in credit. I can see what appear to be irregular income payments, some 
payments via paypal plus what appears to be monthly rental income of £450. But from what 
Ive seen, in the months leading up to the loan Mr S doesnt appear to have been receiving  
an income comparable to what he put on his application. 
I think all this demonstrates that Mr S didnt have enough disposable income to afford the 
additional borrowing he was seeking from Ikano. I think Ikano ought to have done more to 
look into Mr Ss financial situation, especially given his self-employed status. Had it done so I 
think it would have seen that Mr S was already in financial difficulty and was unlikely to be 
able to meet the monthly repayments without experiencing further deterioration in his 
financial situation. Ikano therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Did Ikano act unfairly or unreasonably in some way?Mr S is unhappy that Ikano registered a default on his credit file in December 2021 and says 
this happened without Ikano telling him. Mr S told us hed settled the loan in full in or around 
March 2022, but then discovered that what appeared to be an outstanding balance on the 
account had been sold to a third party. Our adjudicator noted that the account had been 
incorrectly reported on Mr Ss credit report between March 2022 and March 2023. 
In February 2023, Ikano told Mr S it would recall the account from the third party and settle 
the outstanding balance itself. Ikano at first offered £50 for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused Mr S. Following our adjudicators review of the complaint, it agreed to increase 
its offer to £100. Having reviewed the details of this part of the complaint, I think thats a fair 
offer. 
Putting things right  what Ikano needs to do
As I dont think Ikano ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr S should therefore only 
have to pay the original loan amount, being £15,000. Anything Mr S has paid in excess of 
that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ss complaint Ikano should therefore do the following:
Refund any payments Mr S has made in excess of £15,000. It should add 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ikano to take off tax from this interest. Ikano must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr S asks for one.
In addition, and as detailed above, Ikano should pay Mr S £100 by way of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, if it has not already done so. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Ikano Bank AB (publ) to put things right in the manner set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman