DRN-3944781
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt fully refunded him for the money he lost when 
he fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
Mr A brings his complaint with the assistance of a professional representative, meaning 
some submissions were made on his behalf. But for clarity in what follows, I will throughout 
solely refer to Mr A.
What happened
Mr A received a message on social media from a friend, with whom hed previously studied. 
The message said the friend had been very successful with an investment scheme. Theyd 
made £5,000 from a £500 investment in a short space of time. The friend offered to 
introduce Mr A to the person that had helped them to do this.
Unfortunately, and unknown to Mr A at the time, the messages were not from the person he 
knew. That account had been hacked and the message promoting the investment was 
instead sent by a scammer.
Mr A contacted the person whod supposedly helped his friend to make these large profits. 
He decided to go ahead. He was given the name of an investment platform and was able to 
create an account with it and also with a crypto wallet provider.
Mr A then sent a payment of £2,000 from his account held with another bank to the crypto 
wallet. Very quickly he was told his account was worth £20,000.
The scammer told him that he needed to pay £5,000 to upgrade his account which would 
allow him to withdraw his profits immediately. He was told hed also receive an extra £50,000 
profit.
Mr A seems to have then attempted to pay more using his bank card. But the card payment 
didnt go through.
Mr A was told by the scammer to send the payment as a bank transfer instead. 
He was given payment details to use  different to those of the wallet hed previously made 
the payment to. The payees name he was given didnt match the name of the wallet, the 
platform or the broker, appearing instead to be a medical company.
Mr A set up the new payee and sent a £5,000 payment from his Monzo account to the 
payment details specified by the scammer.
But he was then told that hed need to make a further payment to obtain a withdrawal code. 
The scammer told him the sum required was £10,500. Mr A was told that hed receive a 
further £60,000 profit once hed paid this. But Mr A could only afford to send £5,000, which 
the scammer said theyd accept. 
He made the payment again from his Monzo account later that same day. This time the 
payment was to be sent to an account in an individuals name, although the name didnt 
match that of the person Mr A believed hed been dealing with.
Mr A had been told that hed then be able to withdraw funds within minutes. But this didnt 
happen and when his friend stopped replying to his messages, he realised hed been the 
victim of a scam. He reported what had happened to Monzo early the following morning.
On 19 October, Monzo contacted the recipient bank in an attempt to recover Mr As money.  
By this time however, the majority of the money had been removed by the scammer and 
only £59.68 could be recovered, leaving Mr A significantly out of pocket.
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection to scam victims in many 
circumstances - the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code 
(the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo isnt a signatory of 
the CRM Code but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. 
Monzo assessed Mr As scam claim under the terms of the CRM Code. It accepted it hadnt 
acted quickly enough in contacted the firms that had received Mr As payments in order to 
attempt to recover his losses. But it didnt think Mr A had taken reasonable steps to check 
the supposed investment before hed made the two payments. The bank said it and Mr A 
should equally share the responsibility for the resulting losses. It offered Mr A the sum of 
£5,000 (half the value of the payments hed sent) in addition to the small amount it had been 
able to recover. 
Mr A didnt accept this. He thought Monzo should fully reimburse him. 
One of our Investigators looked into his complaint. She thought Monzo was entitled not to 
fully refund Mr A all of the money hed lost. She didnt think Mr A had held a reasonable 
basis for believing what he did when he sent these two payments. She didnt find hed met 
the definition of vulnerability under the CRM Code. She thought Monzo had fairly assessed 
his claim under the CRM Code and its offer (50% of the total payments made) was a fair one 
in the circumstances. 
Mr A asked for the matter to be looked at afresh by an ombudsman. His case has now been 
referred to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr A. Hes lost a considerable sum through this 
scam. I can understand why he feels so strongly that his losses should be refunded in full by 
Monzo.
However, while I have sympathy for Mr A in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of his losses here were the scammers who deceived him. I must also take 
into account that Monzo has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its 
customers give it. As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment 
they have instructed to be made.
In saying that - where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to reimburse its customer even though the customer authorised the payment. 
Amongst other things, Monzo has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due 
regard to the interest of its customers and to follow good industry practice to keep 
customers accounts safe.
Additionally, as Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide increased protection for 
the victims of APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mr A made falls within the scope 
of the CRM Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes 
provisions allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully in some circumstances. 
Relevant here, those circumstances include where the customer made a payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, 
providing a genuine service, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting 
to pay.
Monzo says this exception applies here. So while it had reviewed Mr As claim against the 
CRM Code, it didnt think it was required to reimburse him in full. 
As a starting point in deciding this complaint, I need to determine whether Monzo has 
established this exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Mr A 
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. In 
considering this point, Ive carefully considered everything Mr A has submitted as well as the 
evidence submitted by the bank. 
This scam began with a message that appeared to have come from Mr As friend. It would 
have appeared to have additional legitimacy given that apparent source. Mr A says hed 
never believed in this type of message about investments before, but the source being his 
friend made him think this one was real.
However, despite this, there were some features that I think should reasonably have caused 
Mr A to use greater caution before sending a large sum of money.
Firstly, the returns on offer were extraordinarily high (returning ten times the investment in a 
matter of hours and seemingly without risk). I think this was simply too good to be true. 
I understand Mr As point that he didnt have prior investment experience, but I think even 
without prior experience this would have seemed an unusually high rate of profit  hence the 
attraction of the scheme. By the time he was being asked to make the first payment from 
Monzo he was being told hed be receiving £70,000 profit within minutes for an investment 
totalling £7,000.
Whats more, Mr A says his first attempt to send these funds by card payment failed  again 
I think this ought to have made Mr A question why that had happened if he was making a 
legitimate payment to an investment platform.
Mr A was then given a payee name for the first transfer which didnt appear to match the 
story he was being told by the scammer. Its unclear why the investment money would be 
sent via a medical company. The name has was told to pay bore no relation to the crypto 
wallet provider or investment platform he thought he was using. Similarly, when he was told 
he needed to pay more to get a withdrawal code, he was given the name of a personal 
account to use which bore no relation to the person he thought he was dealing with and no 
obvious relation to the supposed investment platform.
In short, I find there were several indicators that all might not be legitimate. Ive carefully 
considered Mr As representations regarding his circumstances and lack of prior investment experience. But I dont find Mr As circumstances left him unable to protect himself from this 
type of scam - I do not find he was vulnerable in terms of the CRM Code. 
I can also see from the message history that Mr A asked his friend how the investment 
worked. However, he did so only after hed sent both payments - too late to influence his 
actions. I consider it is reasonable to have expected Mr A to have identified earlier that this 
opportunity might not have been all it appeared.
All things taken into consideration; I think Monzo has been able to fairly establish that when 
Mr A made both these payments, he did so without a reasonable basis for believing he was 
paying to a legitimate investment.
In terms of the CRM Code, where a customer made a payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing they were paying for legitimate service from a legitimate merchant, or that 
they were paying the person they believed they were, then their bank does not need to fully 
refund them for their loss even when this was the result of a scam. I find Monzo is entitled to 
rely on that here.
However, under the terms of the CRM Code a bank may still be required to partially 
reimburse a customer in circumstances where it hasnt met the standards set for firms by the 
code. That would include requirements in terms of funds recovery or in taking sufficient steps 
to protect the customer from falling victim to a scam.
Here, the CRM Code says that, if Monzo didnt meet these any or all of these standards, it 
should share liability for half the loss suffered by Mr A. Monzo accepts it didnt meet all of the 
standards required and accordingly has offered to refund Mr A 50% of the payments he lost 
to the scam.
Its important to note that under the CRM Code further failings on the part of a firm would not 
increase the amount it must reimburse. So, I am satisfied that in making an offer to refund 
Mr A 50% of the payments he made, Monzo has complied with what the CRM Code says it 
should do when assessing his claim for reimbursement. That means I do not need to 
consider whether there may have been further failings on Monzos part as even were I to find 
that was the case, it would not affect the amount due to be returned to Mr A under the CRM 
Codes terms.
However, I have nonetheless gone on to consider whether Mr A should be refunded more 
than he has been for any other reasons besides those contained in the provisions of the 
CRM Code.
Firstly, at the time Mr A made these payments, Id expect Monzo to have had systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate a customer was 
at risk of fraud (among other things). If it had identified such a risk, then I might expect it to 
have intervened before processing a payment instruction  taking that action in order to 
protect its customer from potential harm. 
But even were I to find this applicable in Mr As case, I consider any corresponding award I 
could make would be significantly reduced to reflect contributory negligence on his part - for 
broadly similar reasons to those I have detailed above in considering the reasonableness of 
his belief in the legitimacy of the payment purpose and destination. In such circumstances I 
would not award a higher sum overall than Monzo has already offered. In other words, I am 
satisfied this would not result in a higher figure than Mr A is entitled to receive from Monzo 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
I have also considered the impact of the delay Monzo acknowledges occurred in the actions it took to recover the funds Mr A had sent. The first payment was sent to a money 
transmission firm, which confirms the transaction had completed at the time. It says no funds 
could have been recovered. So I dont think Monzos delay has made a difference here.
For the second payment, I have contacted the relevant firm to clarify what sum might have 
been recoverable had Monzo acted at the time the scam was first reported to it. However, it 
was confirmed to me that the total sum that could have been recovered at that point was 
lower than the amount Monzo has now agreed to reimburse Mr A with under the CRM Code. 
So, I cannot fairly require more of Monzo in this respect either, no additional money could 
have been returned to Mr A even had it attempted to recover his money more promptly.
I know from what Mr A says that he thought a far higher figure remained in the second 
account, even three days after hed reported the scam. This was based on a posted 
message hed seen from the scammer after the event. However, based on my enquiries I am 
satisfied that the scammers message was false and likely part of the overall deception. It 
wasnt a true figure reflecting what was in the recipient account for recovery on that date.
With all of the above in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Monzo 
needs to do more than it has already done and does not need to refund more than the 50% it 
already has paid to Mr A. I understand that this is not the outcome Mr A wants and I 
recognise what the loss of this money has meant for him. But I can reassure Mr A that Ive 
carefully considered all the circumstances of his complaint before reaching what I consider 
to be the fair and reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr As complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I do 
not require it to pay Mr A more than the sum it has already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman