DRN-3197219
The complaint
Mr W complains that when he asked TSB Bank plc to move some money from his credit 
card, it made a mistake and sent money to someone else. Mr W wanted us to take account 
of how long it took TSB to put this right.
What happened
Mr W said that his TSB credit card account received a credit, and he wanted that money to 
be transferred to his account, so he could have the cash. But TSB made a mistake and 
moved some money to an unknown account. TSB has accepted this was its error. Mr W said 
that TSB closed his complaint and gave him £100 in compensation, telling him that things 
would be resolved. But when Mr W first complained to us, he said they werent resolved. 
This amount was still showing as owing on his bank statement. Mr W told us that getting his 
money back had taken a large number of very lengthy calls.
TSB said that Mr W had credits paid onto his card, which left Mr Ws card around £700 in 
credit. Mr W asked TSB to move a credit of £804.08, into his current account. 
TSB did that, but it accidentally also moved £694 from Mr Ws card, into someone elses 
account. TSB says this was human error, and its accepted responsibility for this.
Mr W complained on 3 March, and TSB sent him a complaint response letter, saying that it 
had resolved things for him. But TSB said it had corrected this error on 25 May and refunded 
£694 into Mr Ws current account. TSB said it was sorry that this had taken a few weeks to 
resolve, so it had already paid Mr W £100 to apologise.
TSB confirmed it had also refunded a £12 late payment charge applied to Mr Ws card in 
April 2021 and it had suppressed any interest charges on his credit card until the matter was 
resolved. It told us that it was checking with its credit file team, to make sure that any 
amendments required to Mr Ws file had been done.
TSB said that it understood Mr Ws frustrations, this was an unfortunate error, but it said it 
had corrected matters and provided the appropriate compensation.
Mr W said TSB was ringing him about the outstanding debt on his card, and he wanted it to 
stop while this case was being investigated.
In response, TSB said that Mr W hadnt paid anything onto his card since 27 May, when he 
had transferred some of the refund it had paid into his current account, onto the card. It was 
then September 2021, and the outstanding balance on the card was £11.45. 
TSB said this outstanding balance didnt have anything to do with this complaint. Mr W had 
chosen, once he got the refund, to pay £640 back to the card, but this didnt take into 
account all of the transactions he had made since that point.
Mr W said that his card should have been closed in April. Hed paid back some of the refund 
he received in May, but after this he didnt pay because he wanted to keep the account 
open, so that he still had a record of everything that happened.
Mr W also told us that he needed to renew his mortgage, and his adviser had told him that 
this complaint would impact that.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that there had been a 
mistake with Mr Ws transfers, and although TSB had put that right, Mr W had devoted a lot 
of time and effort to making this happen. So our investigator thought TSB needed to do a bit 
more to put things right.
She said that TSB should refund any remaining interest, charges and fees resulting from the 
error with the transfer, and remove any adverse credit data which it had reported because of 
this. TSB has confirmed it has done both of those things.
Our investigator said that TSB should also pay Mr W £50, in addition to the £100 it had 
already paid, to better reflect the time it has taken TSB to resolve this problem and the 
inconvenience it has caused Mr W.
TSB said that it had reported adverse data for July and August, because since the situation 
was resolved Mr W has decided not to make further payments. It said it wouldnt remove 
that. But TSB said it would increase the compensation to £150.
Mr W didnt think an extra £50 was fair. He said that this had taken an extortionate amount of 
time and TSB had yet to confirm if the issue is fully resolved from its perspective. Mr W said 
TSB wouldnt have sorted this out if he hadnt continuously chased it up. Mr W said given the 
time hed spent, he wasnt even getting minimum wage for that. Mr W said if we added up 
the interest and fees he would have paid, then it wouldnt touch the surface of the £50. He 
said he found this amount insulting.
Mr W also said that what he was complaining about here was a second error by TSB. Hed 
asked TSB to separate this out, from its first mistake, and it hadnt. Mr W wanted us to take 
account of all the stress this had caused him. He said hed have accepted the compensation 
TSB had initially paid, if it was just for the first mistake TSB made, in sending the money to 
the wrong place. But TSB then didnt resolve things, and Mr W was confident TSB wouldnt 
have resolved things if he hadnt pushed so hard.
Mr W said that this was also now affecting his credit score as well as his ability to move 
forward. He said he had two months to plan his mortgage as this didn't resolve his case. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
TSB has accepted it made a mistake. Or, as Mr W puts it, two mistakes. It sent some 
money to the wrong place. Then it took almost three months to give him this money 
back. So what I have to look at here, is what its done to make up for that.
TSB has told us that it suppressed interest on Mr Ws card whilst this problem was 
being resolved. I cant see any charge for interest on Mr Ws statements covering the 
period between 6 February 2021 up to 6 June 2021, so I think TSB did do this.TSB also told us that it refunded a late fee that Mr W had been charged during this 
time. I was concerned, when TSB first wrote to our service, because it hadnt shown 
that this refund had been paid. And the amount outstanding on Mr Ws card was less 
than this refund. So if it hadnt been paid, then I might have said Mr W didnt actually 
owe TSB any money.
But TSB has now sent Mr Ws statement for May. And I can see that Mr W was given 
this refund, as TSB has always said. It was paid on 9 April. So Im now satisfied TSB 
has paid this money back. And that means Im also satisfied that the amount 
outstanding on Mr Ws card after his last payment in May 2021 is made up of 
purchases that Mr W has made, and not paid for. Its not a missing refund.
TSB has shown us that it isnt reporting any negative data to credit reference 
agencies up to and including June 2021. It is reporting negative data from July. TSB 
says that it has made sure that theres no negative reporting for the time that it took 
for this problem to be sorted out for Mr W. But it doesnt think its got to make sure 
theres no negative reporting after this. It says that Mr W hasnt been paying towards 
his card, and its not responsible for that.
I think thats a reasonable response for TSB to make. I know Mr W says his account 
should have been closed in April, if TSB hadnt made this mistake then taken so long 
to sort it out. But before the account could be closed, Mr W would always have to 
have paid off all the money he owed TSB. And here, hes told us that hes decided 
not to do that. So I dont think TSB is responsible for this account still being open.
Mr W also said he didnt want this account to close, because he wanted to make sure 
he could still access all the information from it. But I dont think that stopping making 
his monthly payments was the only way to achieve this. Mr W could have 
downloaded all his statements, before closing the account. Or he could have 
continued to use the card only for very small purchases, and paid those off each 
month. So I dont think TSB is responsible for Mr Ws decision not to make his 
monthly minimum payment after May. And because of that, I dont think TSB has to 
remove any negative data which is reporting to Mr Ws credit file from July 2021.
But I do think theres something TSB has done wrong, which it hasnt yet put right.
Mr W complained not just about the first mistake TSB made, in sending the money to 
the wrong place, but also about the length of time it took TSB to put this right. He 
appears to have raised this concern with TSB in March, and he tells us that he said 
to TSB this was a new complaint, not another look at the same problem.
TSB accepted it took some time to put the money back for Mr W. It also said there 
wasnt any time limit for it to respond, when Mr W asked it to reopen this complaint.
TSB is right that there isnt a time limit, if its asked to look again at an existing 
complaint. But I dont think thats quite what happened here. Mr W was complaining 
about something new, that the resolution TSB had promised him to solve the first 
problem hadnt been delivered. I think this should have been treated as a fresh 
complaint. I also think that if it had been treated as a fresh complaint, this issue might 
have been resolved sooner for Mr W.
I dont think an extra £50, on top of the £100 TSB has paid, quite makes up for that.Mr W said that because of all the time hed spent on this, he wanted much more. He 
said that he didnt think it was fair to value his time at below minimum wage.
I can see that Mr W has needed to chase up this issue a number of times, and I 
accept that this has taken up a lot of his time. But our service doesnt work on the 
basis of an hourly rate for the time taken to resolve an issue. Instead, we look at the 
overall impact that a problem has had, and see what the business is responsible for.
Here, I can see TSB accepted that it made a mistake with the transfer. And I think its 
taken the right steps to put things right. I accept what Mr W says about how long this 
took, and I think TSB should have acted faster to resolve things for Mr W. But I dont 
think its TSBs fault if Mr Ws credit file was impacted by him not paying his card after 
this, and I dont think its TSBs fault if Mr Ws future mortgage application is affected 
by that. So I cant include those issues, when Im thinking about the appropriate level 
of compensation in this case.
Looking at what I think TSB is responsible for here, and bearing in mind that it has 
paid Mr W £100 in compensation to date, I still think that TSB should pay Mr W a little 
more now. I think it should pay an additional £100, to make up for the time TSB took 
to sort out this problem, and for not having responded to his complaint that it had 
promised to sort out what was wrong with his card, but hadnt done so.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB said it accepted my decision. Mr W replied to say he wanted me to look into the issues 
of late payments on his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB said it was happy to pay the increased compensation Id suggested.
Mr W said he now had three late payments recorded on his credit file. He said TSB had put 
these markers on his file even though he was told his account would be frozen while the 
complaint was with our service. Mr W said this was impacting his efforts to get a mortgage. 
I then wrote to Mr W, to say that our files showed that he had contacted us in September 
2021. He asked us then to contact TSB and stop it from calling him about this debt. 
We did ask TSB if it would put this debt on hold at the time. But we cant insist a bank puts 
someones account on hold when a complaint comes to us. And when we asked TSB, it said 
it was confident the outstanding balance on Mr Ws account was made up of spending, and 
not related to problems with the mistaken transfer out of his account. It also said that these 
missed payments were only recorded after the mistake it had made had been put right. 
So TSB didnt appear to me to have agreed at this time, to put a hold on this account.
Mr W said he would accept fault, if TSB had actually had a case handler assigned to his 
complaint at that point, but it didnt. He said that although the money had been returned TSB 
had not accepted any responsibility for the secondary incident at that point. Mr W also said 
that collection agents had called at least once a month and told him this account would be 
frozen. He thought TSB or its agents would have a recording of those calls.I wrote to Mr W again then, explaining that Im constrained by the rules of our service, on 
what we can consider. Mr Ws original complaint to us was about the misdirected transfer 
from his credit card. TSB has had an opportunity to consider this, so, under the rules that 
cover our service, we are allowed to look into this complaint.
But the issue of missed payment markers on Mr Ws account does now appear to me to be a 
new issue. I havent been able to bring what Mr W is complaining about now within the 
scope of this case. Thats because these late payment markers were only put on after TSB 
had paid Mr W back his missing money, and I cant see that TSB had agreed as part of this 
case to put Mr Ws debt on hold. 
What Mr W is saying now, is that the debt collection agents who rang him, told him this debt 
would be put on hold. That does appear to me to be a new issue, separate to this complaint. 
So if Mr W would like us to consider whether placing negative markers on his credit file 
breached reassurances he was given by TSBs debt collectors, then we would have to give 
TSB a chance to consider that first. Our service will raise this with TSB on Mr Ws behalf. 
Mr W wanted to stress that the debt collectors he spoke to each month had told him the 
payment would be frozen and he would not get a missed payment. He said that he was very 
concerned about this because he was remortgaging. 
Mr W also said that his credit card should have been cancelled in April anyway, long before 
these missed payment markers were placed on his credit file. Hed asked TSB to close the 
account then, and was told that this had been done, but it wasnt. 
Mr W said hed never missed a payment. He said hed paid off what he owed on the card 
from his own spending as soon as he realised he had spent it.
I wrote to Mr W to say I was sorry I couldnt add the new issue about missed payment 
markers on his credit file into his current complaint. Our service arranged to raise Mr Ws 
concerns with TSB, on his behalf. 
Mr W then spoke to our investigator, to pass on his response to my provisional decision. He 
repeated that his account should have been closed in late April, and said our service hadnt 
looked at this. He said he shouldnt have been able to spend money after this date. And Mr 
W didnt believe that the outstanding amount owed on his card was from his spending. 
Mr W repeated that hed been reassured by TSBs collection agents that he wouldnt get late 
payment markers. He wanted to stress how long it took TSB to sort this issue out. And Mr W 
felt it was important that no one was assigned to handle this case until September. 
Mr W wanted to check that we had notes which were sent to him as part of a data access 
request. Our service has received these from TSB, and Ive read them.
Ive explained that our service cannot add a new issue, about reassurances which Mr W 
says he received over his credit file from TSBs collection agents, in to this case now. So I 
wont look at that point further here. We have asked TSB to respond to Mr W directly on this. 
I said in my provisional decision that I was satisfied that the money owed on Mr Ws credit 
card was money hed spent. I still think that.
I have seen Mr Ws statements from February to June 2021. To summarise briefly, Mr W 
received some credits into his account on12, 14 and 16 February. Two payments left his account, on 22 February. One of these was correctly paid to his current account, the other 
was the mistaken transfer of £694. 
Mr W was still spending on his card at this time, and at the start of March he owed £718.69.
Mr W also used his card three times in March. He made no payment onto the card that 
month. At the start of April, he owed £745.13. 
Mr W used his card in April. He received a refund for a previous late payment charge, and 
Mr W made a payment onto the card. At the start of May, he owed £651.45.
Mr W says that he shouldnt have been able to spend any money after 26 April anyway, 
when he asked for this account to be closed. But Ive explained I dont think TSB had to 
close Mr Ws account while he still had an outstanding balance. 
And the last transaction I can see on the statements I have, was on 24 April. So I dont think 
the money owed on Mr Ws card after May 2021 was from transactions after this date.
Mr W then received a refund of the missing £694, paid into his current account on 25 May. 
On 27 May, he paid £640 onto his credit card. 
TSB had waived all interest on Mr Ws credit card during this time, so Mr Ws debt wasnt 
increasing, even in the months he didnt pay onto his card. But Mr W then paid only £640, 
when he owed £651.45. 
I dont think TSB had to continue to waive interest or late payment fees once it had repaid 
the missing money to Mr W. And I dont think its relevant to the award in this complaint, that 
our service wasnt able to assign a case handler to Mr Ws complaint until September 2021. 
I will leave it to a future complaint to decide if TSBs agents had agreed TSB would not 
record missed payments on Mr Ws card while his complaint was being considered by our 
service. I dont think that this issue forms part of Mr Ws current complaint. And I can see 
nothing in this case which persuades me that I ought to ask TSB to remove late payment 
markers on Mr Ws credit file now.  
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision 
I original proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr W £100.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman