DRN-2571590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are complaining about how HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) handled a claim 
they made. They want HDI to meet their claim, re-instate their insurance and refund some 
additional premium theyve paid to another insurer.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs B were burgled. They contacted their insurer to make a 
claim. The insurer agreed to look at the claim, and as part of the process asked Mr and Mrs 
B to provide a list of items stolen. Amongst other things, Mr and Mrs B said theyd had about 
£73,000 of jewellery and gold items stolen.
The insurer questioned this and Mr and Mrs B explained that a substantial number of items 
had either been wedding gifts or inherited many years ago. They said it wasnt until they 
were stolen and they got approximate values for the items that they realised their true worth.
The insurer said that if it had known Mr and Mrs B had a property worth over £500,000 or 
contents worth more than £60,000, either of those things were enough for it to have declined 
to provide cover for Mr and Mrs B. It said it thought, given the stolen jewellery alone was 
worth more than the entire contents cover, Mr and Mrs B had been careless when they 
provided information about their home and belongings. HDI said that because of this it was 
going to void the policy  that is treat it as if Mr and Mrs B were never insured from their last 
renewal date and refund the premium theyd paid. It said it wouldnt consider the claim 
further.
Mr and Mrs B, with help from a representative complained, but the insurer wouldnt change 
its mind.
They brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought, eventually, that the insurer was 
entitled to act as it did. He thought the questions Mr and Mrs B had been asked when they 
bought the policy were clear  and that it was up to Mr and Mrs B to make sure they 
answered them reasonably carefully. He didnt think theyd done that, so the insurer had 
acted correctly.
Mr and Mrs B say most of their stolen jewellery had simply been kept tucked away and 
theyd never realised its value. They dont think its fair for them to be penalised for this. They 
say also that now theyve had to declare the void, the cost of insuring their home has 
quadrupled. They want their old policy reinstated, the claim met and their additional premium 
costs refunded. Most recently theyve pointed out that they think the information they were 
sent doesnt clearly say that valuable items cant make up more than a third of the total 
contents cover - £20,000. They dont believe they were careless when providing information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs 
B, but Ill explain how Ive reached this conclusion. 
Mr and Mrs B first bought a home insurance policy through an intermediary in 2015. It seems 
that they said at the time they had contents worth £5,000. Because of this, when their policy 
was due for renewal each year, the intermediary reminded them to review their cover - 
pointing out that £5,000 was very low. 
Mr and Mrs B say they increased the cover to £60,000. How they did this isnt clear  but I 
can see its the standard level of cover provided on the HDI policy, so that could explain this.
Once Mr and Mrs B assessed the value of their lost jewellery, this alone came to 
considerably more than £60,000. Given they likely have other possessions  furniture, 
clothing etc, its apparent that they were under-insured, despite the reminders theyd been 
sent about reviewing this. 
When Mr and Mrs B bought their policy, the relevant law applicable to situations where a 
customer isnt insured correctly because of information theyd provided was the Consumer 
Insurance Disclosures and Misrepresentations Act 2012 (CIDRA). Amongst other things, 
CIDRA allows an insurer to void (that is cancel and treat a customer as never insured) a 
policy when it discovers whats called a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The insurer also has the option of amending the policy so different terms and conditions 
apply to any outstanding claim, and, if the premium would have been higher, the insurer 
need only pay a proportionate amount of that claim. 
HDI says Mr and Mrs B misrepresented their circumstances when they bought and/or 
renewed their policy. It says they did that because they didnt take reasonable care to 
answer accurately the questions they were asked. It says it was within its rights under the 
act to void the policy and refuse to consider the claim. 
For HDI to successfully argue Mr and Mrs B made a qualifying misrepresentation it needs to 
show that a clear question was asked, what Mr and Mrs Bs answer was and if it was 
incorrect. 
It also needs to show me that Mr and Mrs B misrepresented their circumstances recklessly 
or deliberately  or, in this case, carelessly. Mr and Mrs B were asked to say what they 
thought the contents of their home were worth. They said £5,000  and were reminded 
thereafter that this was very low and they should reconsider this amount. When their policy 
was placed with HDI at renewal, the value of contents was set at £60,000 automatically  
because thats the limit HDI normally applies.
The correct information was that Mr and Mrs B probably needed much more cover than this 
 maybe more than £100,000, if we assume they own the same sort of items as an average 
couple on top of their jewellery.
HDI says Mr and Mrs B were careless when providing the information as the value of their 
jewellery was so high. Its provided us with evidence to show that if it had received the 
correct information at the time, it wouldnt have insured Mr and Mrs B at all. Ive seen that 
evidence and am satisfied that HDI wouldnt have offered cover if it had known the true 
worth of Mr and Mrs Bs belongings.
Mr and Mrs B say the question about their high risk items cant have been clear because 
they were also unaware that HDI wont insure high risk items (which includes jewellery etc) 
worth more than £20,000 (30% of the overall contents cover). I dont think that affects my 
decision. Thats for two reasons. The first is that Mr and Mrs B must have understood they 
needed to declare high value items because they listed two watches at a total of £8,500. So I 
think they would also understand its important to buy enough cover for their needs. And 
whether the high value limit was clear or not, Mr and Mrs B were substantially under-insured 
even if the whole £60,000 contents limit was available for high risk items.
Mr and Mrs B say that most of the jewellery had simply been tucked away for many years 
and no-one thought about its value. Theres no suggestion they didnt recall owning the items, and I see they were able to compose an extensive list of the stolen items, so it 
appears they were familiar with the quantity and quality of the items they owned  just not 
the value. I accept that this can happen  but as I said above it was Mr and Mrs Bs 
responsibility to buy enough insurance to cover their possessions. Im afraid that 
forgetfulness doesnt remove that responsibility when buying insurance. 
I think Mr and Mrs Bs actions do fall into the category of careless misrepresentation. 
The Act sets out the remedy for HDI when it discovers theres been a careless 
misrepresentation and this is based on what it would have done had the consumer taken 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
The options for HDI, where theres an outstanding claim (as there is here) are:
 To void (or avoid) the policy in its entirety. That means cancelling Mr and Mrs Bs policy 
and treating them as never being insured. This option is available to HDI if it can show it 
wouldnt have insured Mr and Mrs B at all if it had had the correct information. 
 If it would have insured Mr and Mrs B, but charged a different premium, HDI can work out 
what it would have charged Mr and Mrs B if it had had all the correct information, and then 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim would be paid on a proportionate basis. So if Mr and Mrs B had paid 
(for example) 50% of the revised premium the insurer would only have to pay 50% of the 
claim. 
 HDI is also allowed to apply the terms and conditions (other than the premium) it would 
have applied to the policy if it had been given the correct information. 
HDI says it wouldnt have provided cover at all, and sent us details of the system it uses to 
assess whether it will offer cover. It says cover would be refused. So I think HDI can fairly 
say it wouldnt have offered cover.
Mr and Mrs B pointed out that HDI had made a mistake when it said their home was worth 
more than £500,000 and that also was a reason why it wouldnt have provided cover. They 
say their policy says this figure is based on rebuilding costs  and their house would cost 
less than this to re-build. I dont think this affects my decision, as the contents cover under-
insurance alone is sufficient cause for HDI to fairly say it wouldnt have provided cover.
Finally Mr and Mrs B say that HDI paid for their broken door  so it must have accepted their 
claim. HDI says its policy is to make sure a property is secure before it does anything else,  
and thats what it did here. It says that it did that before deciding it wouldnt meet the rest of 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim. That seems fair to me, as its beneficial for Mr and Mrs B to have the 
rest of their belongings secured. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied HDI acted reasonably when applying both the 
regulations imposed by CIDRA and its own guidelines to Mr and Mrs Bs insurance and their 
claim, now it has the correct information about their belongings. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman