DRN-4211520
The complaint
Mr O has complained Monzo Bank Ltd, trading as Monzo, added a fraud-related marker In 
Mr Os name to the industry fraud database, CIFAS, and returned funds he believed were 
his to source.
What happened
In November 2022 Monzo froze Mr Os account. Theyd received an alert from another bank 
about credits paid into Mr Os account. They asked Mr O to explain what these were. Mr O 
explained he was increasingly using his Monzo account to trade crypto on behalf of others.
Monzo returned £4,592.44 to the other bank (who Ill call M) and added a fraud-related 
marker to CIFAS. Mr O was extremely unhappy as he believed hed been carrying out 
genuine crypto purchases on behalf of a third party. He was adamant the money that had 
been returned to M was his and he was now out of pocket.
After Mr O brought his complaint to the ombudsman service, Monzo agreed to remove the 
CIFAS marker and offered £70 compensation to Mr O. Our investigator asked Monzo to pay 
a further £100 which they agreed to do. She wouldnt, however, ask them to refund the 
money returned to M.
Still unhappy, Mr O has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I no longer need to come to an outcome about the CIFAS marker as Monzo has taken 
steps to remove this and agreed to pay £170 compensation overall. I agree this amount 
seems fair and reasonable.
Ive reviewed what Monzo has done after being notified of funds sent to Mr O in November 
2022. I dont believe Monzo were ever in a position to not take steps to return these funds 
after they were informed these had been fraudulently received by Mr O. 
Mr O has told us that the person whod sent him three lots of money in November (£4350.24, 
£2,500 and £2,120) received crypto in return. And I can see that as soon as these three 
payments were received into Mr Os account, he made transfers to a payment wallet (S) for 
£4,306.50 and £4,573.80. However Mr O then took out £4,573.80 out of his S account the 
following day. So Im not completely sure Mr O is right here that he wasnt in receipt of the 
funds.
Overall Im satisfied that Monzo did nothing wrong here in returning funds to M.
Putting things right
I believe that its fair and reasonable that Monzo pay Mr O £170 (£70 and £100 additionally) 
for the trouble caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Monzo Bank Ltd, trading as Monzo, to 
pay Mr O £170 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman