DRN-2292748
The complaint
Mrs W had asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to hold the deeds to her property in safekeeping. It
had held these for many years, but when Mrs W asked for them back, they were not sent.
Mrs W has been supported by Ms V, who holds power of attorney for Mrs W.
What happened
Most houses are now registered, and proof of ownership of ones home is generally easily
obtained by contacting the Land Registry. But Mrs Ws property wasnt registered. That
means that the paper deeds for her property were her proof of ownership for her home.
Those deeds are not easily replaced, and they form a very important document indeed.
Many years ago, Mrs W asked Barclays to keep her deeds safe for her. Then she decided to
sell her house. When Ms V asked, on Mrs Ws behalf, for those deeds back, there were
problems.
Barclays no longer has the terms for this product, but Ms V sent us these. The system of
safekeeping that Barclays provides should return deeds within one to two working days.
Ms V first requested the deeds on 20 September 2019 but did not receive the deeds until 28
October. In the interim, Ms V contacted Barclays repeatedly, paid to obtain summary deeds
from elsewhere, and was in regular contact with her local branch to try to locate the deeds,
and also Mrs Ws solicitor in an attempt to keep the sale of Mrs Ws house going.
Unfortunately, in early November the sale fell through. Mrs W was still able to move, but Ms
V had to arrange a mortgage for the purchase of Mrs Ws new home. Mrs W was able to sell
her old home in February 2020.
Barclays said it was sorry, the correct process to order the deeds hadnt initially been
followed. It has paid £220 of travel and call costs, £80 of fees for the summary deeds Ms V
obtained, refunded £3 which is one month of safekeeping fees, and paid £150 in
compensation. It paid this money to Ms V.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part, and Barclays should pay a
little more compensation than it had previously offered. He explained the limitations on our
service, which mean we can only award compensation for distress and inconvenience
caused to the customer of the business. So we cant take into account, as here, distress and
inconvenience caused to Ms V as part of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that what Barclays did caused this sale to fall through. He said
that because the buyers didnt pull out until after the deeds were received. If the only
problem had been the missing deeds, then he thought the sale wouldve gone through then.
Our investigator thought that the £120 Barclays had paid for travel costs was fair. He ran
through a timeline of the aborted sale of Mrs Ws house, to see when Mrs W would have
been caused concern. He didnt think that the £150 Barclays offered was enough, and he
said he would ask Barclays to pay £250 instead.
Ms V said that Mrs W had paid £3 per month for 25 years for secure storage, and quick
retrieval. Barclays had failed entirely to provide quick retrieval. This was supposed to be a
next-day service, and it had taken over six weeks. So Ms V thought Barclays should pay
back what it had charged for 25 years. It had paid back one months fees.
Barclays said it would pay what our investigator suggested. And our investigator explained
he didnt think it was fair to ask Barclays to refund all the fees it had charged.
Ms V said that she thought our service had underestimated the impact this had on Mrs W,
and the compensation payment wasnt enough. She said that £2,000 would be appropriate.
and she said that the compensation Barclays had paid was paid to her, not to Mrs W,
although Ms V had asked for it to be paid into Mrs Ws account for ease.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Im aware that Ms V has set out for us in a great deal of detail, the efforts she made 
to obtain the deeds and to keep the sale of her mothers house going. I havent set 
that out in full in this decision, but I have taken it into account.
I should start by confirming that our service is only able to award compensation to 
Mrs W, not to Ms V. Thats the effect of the legislation that also makes our awards 
enforceable. Theres no scope for me to change this. 
But I note that Ms V has said that the £453 Barclays has paid, was paid as 
compensation to her. I have seen both the letter written to Ms V telling her about this 
compensation, and the internal notes made by Barclays when it decided what to pay. 
And I think this was calculated based on and paid for the inconvenience suffered by 
Ms V, and the costs incurred by her, which our service couldnt make an award for. 
Only the refund of £3 of safekeeping fees, which had been paid by Mrs W, seems to 
me to have been an amount which could properly be offset against any award I make 
in this case.
Ms V has said that this delay in producing deeds may have had an impact on the 
failure of this sale. But, like our investigator, I dont think this delay did cause Mrs Ws 
house sale to fall through. The deeds were sent to the buyers on 30 October. The 
sale fell through two weeks later. So I dont think thats linked to the late delivery of 
deeds.
I also dont think this has increased Mrs Ws solicitor fees. Her solicitor confirmed  
there had been no additional legal costs as a result of this delay.
For those reasons, Im not able to include in my award, the costs that Mrs W and Ms 
V paid in taking out a mortgage to secure the new home that Mrs W had initially 
hoped to buy with the proceeds of the failed sale. It wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to 
contribute to that.
But I can take into account the distress this caused to Mrs W. Ms V has described 
this to us in some detail. Shes said that Mrs W wanted to call off the whole sale, 
which was necessary to provide more suitable accommodation for Mrs W. And shes 
told us of Mrs Ws intense distress, including suicidal feelings, when it looked like the 
deeds could not be found. Given the importance of these documents, and the problems that can be incurred if they are not located, I can quite understand the very 
considerable distress that Mrs W was caused. I think that Barclays should pay Mrs W 
£500 as compensation for that.
I also note Ms Vs argument that the difficult part of safekeeping isnt the keeping 
safe, its providing prompt and reliable retrieval of documents on request. In the 
individual circumstances of this complaint, I think that there is some strength in the 
argument Ms V has made.
Mrs W has been paying £3 a month for 25 years, for safekeeping, and prompt and 
efficient retrieval on request. I think its important to note that there are two parts to 
this service  the storage and the retrieval. And, when storing deeds like this, I can 
see why both wouldve been equally important to Mrs W. Ms V thought that Barclays 
should refund all of Mrs Ws payments back. I dont think thats reasonable. Mrs Ws 
deeds were not lost, she has received a service. Her deeds were kept safe. They 
were not, however retrieved promptly and efficiently at a time when she really 
needed them. So I think Mrs W received half the service she paid for, and its fair for 
Barclays to return to her half of the money she has paid in the circumstances here.
If Barclays has complete records of the length of time that it has provided a 
safekeeping service to Mrs W, and how much she has paid, it should return to her 
half that sum now. (If Barclays wishes to take up this option, it should provide full 
information on these payments, so a firm figure can be included in my final decision.) 
If Barclays has not got this information, then it should work on the basis that Mrs W 
has paid £3 a month for 25 years, and return £450 now. Barclays can count towards 
this sum the one months fees of £3 which it has already returned.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides responded to my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms V said she and Mrs W accepted this decision, which they thought produced a fairer 
result. 
Barclays said that it had previously paid money to Ms V, not Mrs W. It said that shouldnt 
have been the case, as the complaint wasnt logged by Ms V. It said the money had been 
paid into an account solely held by Mrs W. And the complaint has been logged onto its 
systems under Mrs W and not under Ms V, which is why the investigator directed the 
payments to Mrs W. 
Barclays said it understood its letter about this payment wasnt addressed to Mrs W and the 
wording in this letter didnt seem to direct the compensation to be paid to Mrs W. But it 
wanted me to consider that this compensation was paid directly to Mrs W, into an account in 
her sole name. 
So Barclays said it would pay the following 
- fees of £450, minus the £3 already paid, and
- compensation of £500, minus the £150 already paid. 
And it noted it had paid £80 for the summary deeds, which it thought Mrs W wouldve paid 
for. Barclays has shared with us not only the letter it wrote to Ms V about compensation, but also 
a note of the call it made to Ms V about this complaint. The conversation details that Ms V 
had incurred additional costs because of the delay. (I note Barclays assumes at least some 
of these expenses have fallen on Mrs W. It is by no means clear to me that all of these costs 
have been passed on to Mrs W.) 
Barclays offered to cover Ms Vs travel and some other costs, and £150 as compensation for 
the inconvenience. It was Ms V who asked for this money to be paid into Mrs Ws account. 
She told us she did that solely for simplicity, rather than because she regarded this as an 
award to Mrs W.
Ive considered what Barclays now says about this, but reading its contemporaneous notes, 
it appears to me that its more likely that this compensation was, as the rest of the payment, 
intended for Ms V. That also fits with the letter, which is, as Barclays said, addressed to Ms 
V, and which makes clear that the compensation payment is for any distress and 
inconvenience this has caused you.
Whilst I understand that Barclays now considers this was a mistake, I still think that this 
money was paid to Ms V, and for Ms V. I dont think that the payment of £150 in 
compensation intended for Ms V can properly be offset against an award to Mrs W in this 
case.
I also note that Barclays hasnt offered any further details about how long Mrs W has been 
paying for safekeeping. In line with my provisional decision, it proposes to adopt the 
suggestion I made, that it should pay £450, minus the pre-existing refund of £3, for 
safekeeping. Ill set that out in my award.
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs W £500 in compensation, and 
£450 for safekeeping fees. Barclays can count towards this sum the one months fees of £3 
which it has already returned.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman