DRN-4019788
The complaint
Mr K has a credit card provided by Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) and complains about 
the lenders unfair registration of a default on his credit file and Vanquiss actions following 
the default.
What happened
I dont propose to detail here the full history of the credit card account, but I will outline the 
key events which I think are relevant to my decision. 
Mr K missed a number of payments on the credit card account. The lender issued a notice of 
default and Mr K, following a number of conversations with Vanquis, entered into a payment 
arrangement with the lender. But the lender had in the meantime requested that a default be 
put on Mr Ks credit file. Vanquis then accepted that the default was incorrectly applied to the 
credit file and said that it had asked the credit reference agency for it to be removed and that 
it would provide Mr K with £50 compensation. Mr K said that the amount of £50 was 
inadequate compensation and he was concerned that it would take six to eight weeks to 
remove the default as this would affect his chances of obtaining employment for that period. 
He is also unhappy that Vanquis has removed his access to the card account other than for 
repaying his outstanding balance.
Mr K said he had been affected both financially and mentally. He was unemployed and living 
on benefits. He had to cancel all his job applications for two months as the presence of the 
default on his credit file would prevent him getting a job as potential employers would do a 
credit check before employing him. He is seeking immediate removal of the default, 
acceptable compensation and access to his card account.
Vanquis accepted that Mr K had set up a payment arrangement within 28 days of the issue 
of its notice of default and so the default shouldnt have been registered at the credit 
reference agency in line with the terms of the notice. It said that its agent should have 
discussed the default notice with Mr K at the time he set up the payment arrangement which 
the agent failed to do.
Our investigators view
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr K disagreed. He said that he hadnt obtained employment as hed failed an employers 
credit check due to the default following interviews in June and July 2022. 
The investigator asked Mr K to provide evidence to support the loss of employment due to 
the damage to his credit file. Mr K didnt provide any evidence in response to the 
investigators request.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review.
My first provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr K and to Vanquis on 13 December 2022. I summarise my findings:
Both sides agreed that the default shouldnt have been registered. So, I thought it was fair 
that Vanquis had offered to remove this, but what I needed to consider was the impact the 
default had had on Mr K. 
Id noted that Mr K had said that the only adverse entry on his credit file was the default from 
Vanquis and that this had caused him to lose potential employment. I could also see that   
Mr K had said that he hadnt applied for jobs for two months because of his concern about 
failing potential credit checks because of the default. Mr K had also told this Service that he 
was offered employment in early-November 2022 which was revoked later that month. But 
without firm evidence that the presence of the default on Mr Ks credit file was the sole 
reason for the rejection of Mr Ks job applications, I couldnt say that Vanquis should be held 
responsible for this. I also thought Mr K could have presented Vanquiss final response letter 
to a potential employer to explain that the default was registered in error. 
But I was sure the incorrect registration of the default has been stressful and frustrating for 
Mr K. Id noted that Mr K had told Vanquis about his employment situation in a conversation 
with it in June 2022, so it ought to have been aware of the potential consequences of the 
registration of a default on his employment search. 
So, I thought that Vanquiss offer of £50 compensation wasnt appropriate and that the 
payment of an additional £150 would be fair. 
Vanquis responded to my first provisional decision to say that it disagreed with an 
assumption that seemed to have been made, inasmuch as it had always stated that the 
default was correctly registered. It said that it shouldnt have offered to remove it in the first 
place, but felt that as the offer had been made, it ought to honour the offer. But it didnt feel 
additional compensation was justified.
Mr K responded to my first provisional decision by providing us with an email from a potential 
employer (E). This said that it had performed a credit check on Mr K in November 2022 
and was informed of a default on the credit report which led to its job offer being withdrawn. 
Mr K also said that the failed credit check that resulted from the default on his credit file had 
also now stopped him from being able to reapply to E until May 2023. He had spent a long 
time looking for a new job and the role at E was due to start at the beginning of           
January 2023. But because of Vanquiss error in not removing the default, he was still out of 
work.
My second provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued my second provisional decision on this complaint 
to Mr K and to Vanquis on 23 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted in Vanquiss response to my first provisional decision that it said that the default 
should never have been removed. But I didnt think it was reasonable for Vanquis to say that 
the default should never have been removed as it had said in its final response letter that it 
would remove it. 
Id reviewed Es email which said that its job offer to Mr K had been withdrawn because of 
the default. I was satisfied that Es withdrawal of a job offer in late November 2022 was 
because Vanquis hadnt removed the default from Mr Ks credit file which it had agreed to do. I could see that Mr K would have been extremely disappointed that Es job offer had 
been withdrawn. I could also see that Mr K wouldnt be able to apply for a job with E again 
for six months because of the job offer withdrawal which would have also concerned him. 
But I understood that the default was being removed around 12 December 2022. So, it 
would have been possible for Mr K to apply for other suitable roles at employers similar to E 
after that date.
Taking everything into account, I was satisfied that Vanquiss failure to remove the default 
caused Mr K considerable distress and inconvenience which could have been avoided if 
Vanquis had done what it said it would do in its final response letter in June 2022. So, 
subject to any further representations by Mr K or Vanquis, Id said that I intended to uphold 
this complaint in part and say that it would be reasonable for Vanquis to pay Mr K an 
additional £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience (instead of the additional £150 
compensation Id proposed in my first provisional decision and in addition to the £50 
compensation already credited by Vanquis to Mr Ks account).
Id also considered whether Mr K should receive an award for financial loss (his lost wages). 
But I didnt think he should. I didnt think Mr K had made reasonable efforts to limit the harm 
hed suffered as a result of Vanquiss actions. I thought he could have contacted E as it had 
suggested in its email and provided it with supporting evidence (the final response letter from 
Vanquis) about the default. And if Mr K had shown E the final response letter, its possible it 
might have changed its decision and the loss of wages might have been avoided. But I 
couldnt see that Mr K had tried to limit this loss and so I didnt think I could make an award 
for financial loss.  
Mr K responded to my second provisional decision and said, in summary, that hed 
contacted E to inform them that the default had been applied to his credit file in error. Hed 
tried his best to rectify the situation. But E told him that the decision had been made to 
withdraw the job offer and there was nothing they could do as he had failed the credit check 
and it wasnt possible to run a further check. Mr K said he didnt provide E with the final 
response letter as it was a letter dated July 2022 where Vanquis didnt action the remedy it 
promised it would. 
Vanquis responded to my second provisional decision to say that in recognition of its offer to 
remove the default and the subsequent delay resulting from this, it was happy to pay £500 
compensation to Mr K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr K said that hed tried his best to tell E about Vanquiss error and explain the 
situation. But I also note that he told this Service it wasnt his job to sort out Vanquiss 
mistakes. Mr K says that the final response letter was redundant but its possible that 
providing Vanquiss final response letter to E might have made a difference. But even if it 
didnt, that was ultimately because of Es decision and not Vanquiss actions. So, I dont 
think it would be proportionate to hold Vanquis responsible.
I said in my second provisional decision that Mr K was also able to apply for other suitable 
roles once the default had been removed in mid-December 2022, which wasnt long after he 
became aware that the default was still on his credit file. And I think this remains a 
consideration when looking at the extent of Vanquiss liability for what Mr K is claiming.  Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair to hold Vanquis responsible for 
Mr Ks financial loss here. Otherwise, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my second provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint in part and 
require Vanquis to take the steps set out below under the heading Putting things right - what 
Vanquis needs to do.
I understand that there are still arrears on the account. If Mr K hasnt already done so, I 
would urge him to contact Vanquis to arrange a mutually agreeable repayment plan to 
prevent a default being put on his credit file.
Putting things right  what Vanquis needs to do
Vanquis should pay Mr K an additional £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
(in addition to the £50 compensation already credited by Vanquis to Mr Ks account).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Vanquis Bank Limited to take the steps set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what Vanquis needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman