DRN-1734237
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocked a payment out of his 
account.
What happened
Mr B says at around 21.00 on 17 July 2019 he made an online faster payment from his 
NatWest account to fund a savings account that closed that day. The payment was for 
£6,666 and says he found out some days later the money had been returned to his account 
by the other business, as it had received the money after the deadline for funding that 
account. Mr B says he had previously made payments to that account without issue and 
questions why fraud blocks were placed on this transaction. He says as a result of 
NatWest's mistake he has lost out on the interest and would like it to repay that amount. Mr 
B says the payment screen says the payment ought to have been made immediately.
NatWest doesn't accept making a mistake and says it applied fraud measures to the 
payment but released the payment when checks were carried out. It says the payment was 
made at 22.20 on 17 July 2019 and so it couldn't speak to Mr B that night and that faster 
payments can take up to two hours to process.
Mr B brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator didn't 
think Natwest made a mistake and had followed its security process.
Mr B doesn't accept that view and says NatWest didn't speak to him about the transaction, 
and that he had made a number of larger transactions to the same business without 
difficulty. He says he is not involved in fraud and there was no reason to penalise him for 
NatWest's defective systems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that NatWest hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Mr B will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Fraud is a major problem for consumers and banks or building societies. And so banks and 
building societies must have security measure in place to protect their customers money. I 
accept that on occasions legitimate transactions, such as this one, are made subject to 
security measures. I also accept that in those circumstances legitimate customers such as 
Mr B are caused inconvenience, and that such transactions are delayed that can have 
significant consequences. But I think banks and building societies are entitled to apply such 
security measures and it's not our role to tell a business what its security measures should 
be or how it operates those measures. I think such matters are for a business to decide upon 
when exercising its commercial judgement. I make it clear that there is no suggestion that Mr B has acted in a fraudulent manner.
I have looked at NatWest's records and I think that Mr B made the transaction at 22.20. I 
think that time is significant as this was a faster payment. The faster payment rules which 
NatWest's online payment page has a link to, makes clear that such a payment may take up 
to two hours to process. In those circumstances I find that even if the payment had not been 
blocked that there would not have been any guarantee the money would have reached the 
savings account in time.
In any event I have made clear that I think NatWest was entitled to block the payment, and 
so I can't fairly conclude that it made a mistake or acted unfairly by doing so. I don't think it 
matters that previous payments had been successfully processed, and I don't think 
NatWest ought to have tried to have spoken to Mr B due to the time the block was applied.
I appreciate Mr B says NatWest's fraud measures were defective. But I have not seen any 
evidence to reach that same conclusion, and I have explained that fraud measures may as 
in this case block a legitimate transaction. I don't think it follows that Natwest's security 
systems are defective as a consequence of that. 
Overall, as I'm satisfied NatWest hasn't made a mistake, then I can't fairly order it pay Mr B 
any compensation for the loss of interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman