DRN-2435734
The complaint
Mr F, in his capacity as trustee of T, complains that St James's Place UK plc (SJP) hasnt 
provided enough information about the investments held in T for him to properly monitor the 
performance of them.
What happened
Mr F is a trustee of T, which was set up in 2001. In May 2002 the trust took out an 
investment bond and in March 2009 the trust took out a trustee bond.
Mr F made a complaint in 2019 about the information available to him about the bonds 
performance. He said when the bonds had been set up, SJP provided him with benchmarks 
that he could easily compare against the performance of funds the bonds were invested in. 
He said this stopped being provided some years ago, and having requested this information 
recently, found that the bonds hadnt performed well compared to the benchmarks. Mr F 
acknowledged SJP made some benchmarks readily available for comparison. But he didnt 
think they helpful as they were based on portfolios rather than individual funds, which is how 
the bonds held in T were invested.
SJP responded providing Mr F with historic information so that he could review the 
performance of the bonds. It also paid him £250 for the time taken to respond to his 
concerns. Mr F maintained the benchmarks used werent adequate and said they didnt 
allow for expenses.
SJP sent Mr F an additional response explaining that the information Mr F sought was 
available on a monthly basis through his SJP partner, which he could request. SJP said it 
wasnt permitted to manipulate the benchmarks for its own use.
Mr F remained unhappy and referred the complaint on behalf of T to our service. Mr F said it 
had been agreed at the outset that SJP would provide fund specific benchmarks and it 
wasnt fair that this was no longer provided. He thought this was because SJP had decided 
to focus on portfolios rather than specific funds, which is why the benchmarks it provided 
suited those invested in the portfolios.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think SJP was required to send the 
fund specific benchmarks to Mr F  Mr F could request this from his SJP servicing partner as 
and when it was required. Although the paperwork wasnt available from 2002, the 
investigator said the reasons why letter from 2009 didnt give Mr F any expectation that any 
particular benchmark would be provided to the trustees to help them monitor the bond 
performance.
Mr F said it was SJPs duty to send this information as part of the ongoing service outlined in 
2002. Mr F added that he thought SJP had to retain documents relating to the bond sold in 
2002 and thought it reflected poorly that this had been lost. Mr F said he didnt think SJP 
was likely to provide the information he requested in future and asked what recourse he had.
The investigator didnt change his opinion. He said there wasnt any requirement for SJP to 
keep sales documents indefinitely  he didnt think it was unusual that information from 2002 
wasnt available now. He said SJP had assured him that the information he required would 
be produced upon request and if this didnt happen he could make a new complaint. The 
complaint was referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Mr F has said that when the first bond was set up in 2002, it was agreed that benchmarks 
would be provided so he could monitor the performance of it over time. The paperwork from 
2002 isnt available, which isnt surprising given the time thats since passed. But having 
reviewed the reasons why letter from 2009, there isnt any reference to information being 
provided to the trustees relating to the bond performance going forwards.
I appreciate that by receiving fund specific benchmarks in the past, it gave Mr F the 
expectation that this would continue to be provided in future. But business practices change 
over time, and I havent seen any evidence to show that SJP was contractually obliged to 
provide fund-specific benchmarks to the trust to help it compare the bonds performance. 
Furthermore, it is the trusts responsibility to monitor the investment to ensure it remains 
suitable, which would include monitoring the performance. So, I think the onus is on the 
trustees to ask for information they require to help them achieve this. 
SJP says that it isnt obliged to proactively provide the information Mr F wants. While it 
historically provided information that was more specific to the funds the bond was invested 
in, the benchmarks it provides now are suitable for overall portfolio performance. I dont think 
thats unreasonable. Nevertheless, SJP says the information Mr F requires is available 
through his SJP servicing partner. So, the issue here isnt that SJP wont provide the 
information Mr F requires to fulfil his duty as trustee, instead it is that obtaining this 
information is now less convenient for Mr F.
I understand this is disappointing for Mr F, particularly as he didnt request this information 
for a few years, meaning that he wasnt aware of how the bond had performed during this 
time compared to the relevant benchmarks. But I wouldnt expect SJP to provide information 
about every fund to its investors, so I dont think it is acting unreasonably by making this 
information available to Mr F by request only through his servicing partner.
I know Mr F has concerns that his servicing partner wont provide the information to him 
when he asks for it. But SJP has informed him and our service that this will be provided. So, 
Mr F should make arrangements directly with his servicing partner to obtain the information 
he requires to monitor the bond performance. If Mr F does find that he has difficulty obtaining 
this information in the future, he would be entitled to make a new complaint. However, I hope 
it wont come to that. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that SJP has treated the trustees unfairly by changing the 
information it provides to investors about its products over time.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman