DRN-3115212
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a television (TV) he purchased using his PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal Credit) revolving credit account (account).
What happened
Mr A purchased a new TV from a high Street retailer that I will call C in November 2018. 
The cash price of the TV was £709, and Mr A purchased it using his PayPal Credit account. 
The sum of £709 has now been repaid in full, with no interest.
Mr A says the TV developed a fault in May 2020.
Mr A complained to C in May 2020. But C said the fault was down to wear and tear and 
therefore it wasnt offering anything by way of compensation.
Unhappy with Cs response Mr A made a claim with PayPal Credit under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
PayPal Credit didnt uphold Mr As section 75 claim, or his subsequent complaint about the
same, so he referred the matter to our service for investigation.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should be
upheld, and that PayPal Credit should:
Collect the TV from Mr A at no cost.
Refund Mr A the cost of the TV less 14% for usage.
Pay Mr A interest on the above refund.
PayPal Credit didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and Mr A said he was also
looking for, amongst other things, compensation for the distress and inconvenience this
whole matter had caused him.
Because neither party agreed with the investigators conclusion, the complaint was passed
to me for review and decision.
I issued a (first) provisional decision in July 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to say that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would also like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive
or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider
is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider
surrounding circumstances.
The agreement in this case is a revolving credit agreement. As such, this service is able to
consider complaints relating to it. Mr A raised a claim under section 75. In certain
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer (Mr A) an equal right to claim against the
supplier of goods or services (C), or the provider of the credit (PayPal Credit) if there's been
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (C).
My role isnt to decide whether or not section 75 applies here. Rather, Im required to decide
what, if anything, PayPal Credit should do to resolve this complaint. When deciding whats
fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account (amongst other things) any relevant
law. Relevant law here includes section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality.
This is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And
with a new item this would include aspects of appearance and finish; freedom from minor
defects; safety and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time. Here, according to
Mr A, the TV developed a fault in May 2020 some 18 months after it was supplied.
For PayPal Credit to be liable it would have to be shown that the fault was present or
developing at the point of supply. And I dont think that the information provided by Mr A is
sufficient to show this.
It isnt in dispute that there is a fault with the TV, but despite being given the opportunity to
do so, Mr A hasnt provided an inspection report (from a qualified electrical engineer for
example) that shows that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Now I know I cant say for certain, but without third party evidence that the fault with the TV
was present or developing at the point of supply, I cant discount the possibility that the fault
was due to something else, such as  but not restricted to  accidental damage.
So, in summary, I currently dont find that PayPal Credit did anything wrong in declining
Mr As section 75 claim. There is, in my opinion, insufficient evidence, or information, to
show that the TV wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Or that there was a breach of
contract or misrepresentation for which PayPal Credit would be equally liable.
Accordingly, Im currently of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld and that 
PayPal Credit need not make any refund to Mr A, or pay him anything for what he says is the
distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused him.
Mr A didnt agree with my (first) provisional decision and in support submitted an evaluation
report from an electronic repair company that majors in television repairs dated 7 July 2021.The evaluation report says:
The TV has a faulty display panel that needs replacement. This fault appears to be due to
wear on the TV but should have not appeared within the first 3-5 years of its life. We
recommend our customer to contact the manufacturer/retailer for further assistance on this.
The TV is beyond economical repair based on the cost of the replacement screen.
The company charged Mr A £95 diagnostic fee and quoted £794 to repair the TV.
The investigator shared Mr As evaluation report with PayPal Credit and asked if it wanted to
reconsider its position. However, it responded to say that considering the length of time
[Mr A] has had the product, PayPal Credit feels that it cannot be held liable for the fault
occurring as the product was not misrepresented on sale.
I issued a second provisional decision in September 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what PayPal Credit has said and provided, Im satisfied that it doesnt dispute that
Mr A has the right to bring a claim against it under section 75. Instead, its my understanding
that PayPal Credit has simply submitted that it did nothing wrong in declining Mr As
section 75 claim (on the grounds of no misrepresentation or no breach of contract having
taken place) and that it did nothing wrong in how it handled Mr As complaint about that
declinature.
As I said in my (first) provisional decision the CRA states that in order to conform to contract
goods must be of satisfactory quality. This is defined as being what a reasonable person
would consider to be satisfactory. And with a new item this would include aspects of
appearance and finish; freedom from minor defects; safety and durability [my emphasis].
Based on what all the parties have said and submitted, its clear to me that its not in dispute
that there is a fault with Mr As TV. But rather PayPal Credit submits that the fault is simply
down to wear and tear, or a malfunction that has developed through the passage of time.
In my view, even if I was to accept that Mr A used his new TV more than an average person
might use a new TV, I wouldnt expect a new TV from a major manufacturer costing over
£700 to fail after only 18 months or so. Furthermore, Im satisfied that my view in this respect
is supported by the evaluation report provided by Mr A, a report that doesnt suggest any
abuse or misuse of the TV by Mr A, or any accidental damage to it.
Given that Ive now provisionally found that Mr A was provided with a TV that wasnt of
satisfactory quality, what I now need to decide is what PayPal Credit should have to do, if
anything, to fairly compensate Mr A.
Mr A is looking for, amongst other things, a full refund of the purchase price of the TV (£709)
and a further substantial sum for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has
caused him.
I accept that Mr A has been caused some distress and inconvenience in this matter. But, Im
not persuaded this distress and inconvenience constitutes an award of the magnitude Mr A
is seeking.I appreciate that Mr A has had the inconvenience of having to store a TV at his home that
has a fault for some time. But Im not persuaded that he was in the position of being unable
to buy a replacement. Now, I accept that its not my role to suggest that Mr A should have
purchased a new TV on credit, but given that at the time the TV subject to this complaint
failed Mr A had in excess of £2,500 of credit on his PayPal Credit account, Im not
persuaded he was in the position of being unable to purchase a new TV, but rather he chose
not to.
I also appreciate that Mr A was caused some distress and inconvenience in submitting his
section 75 claim to PayPal Credit and how this, and his subsequent complaint about the
same, was handled by PayPal Credit. But again, I dont think this warrants an award of the
magnitude being sought by Mr A.
The investigator suggested that PayPal Credit should:
Collect the TV from Mr A at no cost.
Refund Mr A the cost of the TV less 14% for usage.
Pay Mr A interest on the above refund.
Taking everything into account in this case, to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr A for
being provided with a TV that wasnt of satisfactory quality and for the distress and
inconvenience this whole matter has caused, its my current view that:
PayPal Credit should collect the TV at no cost to Mr A.
PayPal Credit should reconstruct Mr As account as if the transaction (for the TV 
costing £709) never took place with no adjustment being made for usage.
If, after reconstructing the account, Mr A is out of pocket at any time PayPal Credit
should pay Mr A 8% annual simple interest on this from the date he was out of
pocket until he gets it back*.
PayPal Credit should refund Mr A the £95 he incurred in getting an evaluation report.
PayPal Credit should pay Mr A 8% annual simple interest on the sum of £95 from the
date of payment by Mr A to the date of settlement*.
PayPal Credit should pay Mr A £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of its handling of his section 75 claim and for 
its subsequent handling of his complaint about the same.
*PayPal (Europe) Sarl & Cie, SCA is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should Mr A request it, PayPal (Europe) Sarl & Cie, SCA should
provide him with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if
appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Mr A responded to my second provisional decision to say, in summary:
He hadnt purchased a new TV using his PayPal Credit account because of the 
(interest) cost involved in doing so.
He didnt understand what I meant by If, after reconstructing the account, Mr A is out 
of pocket at any time PayPal Credit should pay Mr A 8% annual simple interest on 
this from the date he was out of pocket until he gets it back.In respect of the above point all he wanted was a refund of the TV purchase price of 
£709 plus 8% interest.
PayPal Credit responded to my second provisional decision to say, in summary:
It wasnt able, for practical reasons, to collect the TV from Mr A.
It was prepared to pay  by way of a credit to Mr As PayPal balance for withdrawal 
by Mr A to his bank account:

o£709 (the purchase price of the TV).
oInterest on the above sum at 8% annual simple interest from the date of 
purchase to the date of settlement.
o£95 (the cost of the evaluation report).
oInterest on the above sum at 8% annual simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
o£100 for distress and inconvenience.
Following the above responses, and to avoid the need for a third provisional decision, I wrote 
to both parties to say that I was now minded to find that PayPal Credit should have to:
Refund Mr A £709 (the cost of the TV with no adjustment for usage).
Pay 8% annual simple interest on the above sum of £709 from the date of purchase 
to the date of settlement.
Refund Mr A the £95 he incurred in getting an evaluation report.
Pay 8% annual simple interest on the above sum of £95 from the date it was paid to 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
However, and simply because I accepted it wasnt practical for PayPal Credit to do so, I said 
PayPal Credit no longer needed to collect the TV from Mr A and Mr A should dispose of it 
himself.
Both Mr A and PayPal Credit responded to say that they were content with my revised 
proposal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that my revised proposal (which both parties have confirmed 
they are happy with) constitutes a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint and a fair 
and reasonable outcome for the reasons given.My final decision
My final decision is that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA must:
Refund Mr A the £709 purchase price of the TV.
Pay Mr A 8% annual simple interest on the sum of £709 from the date of payment by 
Mr A to the date of settlement*.
Refund Mr A the £95 he incurred in getting an evaluation report.
Pay Mr A 8% annual simple interest on the sum of £95 from the date of payment by 
Mr A to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mr A £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he incurred as a 
result of the handling of his section 75 claim and for the subsequent handling of his 
complaint about the same.
*PayPal (Europe) Sarl & Cie, SCA will need to recalculate this figure as the figure provided 
under cover of its response to my second provisional decision was calculated to 
22 September 2021 and this isnt, or wont be, the settlement date.
*PayPal (Europe) Sarl & Cie, SCA is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should Mr A request it, PayPal (Europe) Sarl & Cie, SCA should
provide him with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if
appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman