DRN-2780844
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unreasonably 
refused to pay for the diagnostic tests his dog required under his pet policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a standard life time policy with Red Sands to start on 7 May 2020. Given his 
dogs vet history, the policy had an exclusion for growths, tumours, cancers and resulting 
conditions.
Very sadly in September 2020, Mr Ws dog collapsed and couldnt use his back legs. This 
happened when Mr W was abroad so his discussions with the vet were all done over the 
phone. The vet initially thought it might be a slipped disc and so Mr W gave permission for 
the vet to undertake diagnostic tests including an MRI to try and find the cause. 
Unfortunately, the MRI and lumbar spinal fluid analysis showed that the cause of the dogs 
collapse was most likely to be a form of lymphoma, but an infectious or inflammatory disease 
couldnt be excluded also. Therefore, Mr W took the very hard decision to put his dog to 
sleep.
He made a claim to Red Sands for the vet fees which totalled £5.923.88. Mr W said he 
understood his liability would have been £1,062.00 of this amount and therefore he expected 
Red Sands to pay him £4,861.00. Red Sands said it couldnt pay any of his claim because 
cancers were excluded from cover on Mr Ws policy.
Mr W complained saying that the diagnostic costs should be covered as no one knew about 
the lymphoma until these tests were carried out. But Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. 
So, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had done 
anything wrong. Mr W didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, I am very sorry that Mr W had to put his dog to sleep and I do understand how that 
makes Mr Ws complaint much more difficult and upsetting.
Secondly, as the investigator explained, we are not the regulator of Red Sands as he 
believes, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. So that means we have no remit to tell 
insurers like Red Sands, what type of cover their policies should have or what restrictions on 
the level of cover provided could be considered unfair. Our remit is merely to adjudicate 
consumer complaints about those businesses regulated by the FCA and assess whether the 
provider, Red Sands here, did anything wrong, given the terms and conditions of its policy 
with Mr W.  We have no remit to say Red Sands should do anything over and above the 
terms of its policy. 
Mr W bought his policy in May 2020 and I can see from the vet history his dog was 
previously covered by other insurance. His dogs age was around 12 years of age and whilst 
I have no information about how Mr W bought his policy, I can see from the vet history his 
dog did have a previous incident of cancer. Therefore, I dont consider there was anything 
wrong with cancers and tumours being excluded from cover under this policy as virtually no 
pet insurance will cover pre-existing conditions without such exclusions or limitations. Mr Ws 
policy does have some cover for qualifying pre-existing conditions which wasnt added to 
Mr Ws cover, but that cover is limited to £750.00 in any event.
 
Mr Ws policy says the following:
Vet Fees
We will provide cover for; All reasonable costs for Treatment of Your
pet by a Vet due to Accident, Illness or disease up to the Annual Limit as specified in 
Your Policy Schedule. Cover is provided for the lifetime of Your pet as long as You 
continuously renew Your policy.
Under the following: 
What is not Covered? (Significant Exclusions or Limitations)
- Any claim or costs for or relating to a Non-Qualifying Pre-Existing Condition(s) or for 
an Illness, Injury or Condition that first showed Clinical signs or an Accident that 
occurs at any time before or within 14 days of the Commencement date of the policy.
The wording of this exclusion is clear, it simply excludes costs for pre-existing conditions. 
And theres no dispute that Mr Ws dog was previously diagnosed with a cancer and that 
very sadly it was highly likely the diagnosis here, following from the diagnostic tests was 
another cancer diagnosis. 
From the report of the specialist vet it says the following:
The findings on the MRI are suggestive either of a form of soft-tissue round cell 
neoplasia (lymphoma, histiocytic sarcoma) although an infectious (empyema) or 
inflammatory disease (meningomyelitis) cant be excluded.
The findings of the spinal fluid and MRI, are unfortunately most suggestive of a form 
of round cell tumour with lymphoma considered the most likely differential. We cant 
totally exclude a form of inflammatory (auto-immune) meningomyelitis (attack of the 
spinal cord and meninges) without surgical biopsy of the lesion. If this is was a 
meningomyelitis then there might be a responsive to immunosuppressive treatment 
(corticosteroids), however there is no guarantee of a response (approximately 45% of 
dogs with meningomyelitis will deteriorate despite treatment).
Central Nervous system lymphoma is a tumour of the lymphoid cells and is non-
surgical. Although it can be treated with chemotherapy, the prognosis for CNS 
lymphoma is very poor with a mean survival time of 60-90 days. Reasons for 
euthanasia are normally due to progression of neurological deterioration and poor 
quality of life associated with this. Treatment for CNS lymphoma can be with 
chemotherapy with cytarabine (an injectable chemotherapeutic) and corticosteroids 
also a mainstay of this treatment protocol.
Based on this report and the absence of any further vet evidence, I also dont consider Red 
Sands did anything wrong in deciding the claim most likely related to another diagnosis of 
cancer, which in Mr Ws case was excluded from his cover.Theres nothing in this policy which says diagnostic tests are covered regardless of the pre-
existing conditions. And indeed, in my experience Ive never seen a pet policy that routinely 
provides cover for diagnostic tests regardless of the eventual diagnosis. Most pet policies 
including this one, will cover vet costs up the limit of the cover provided once the eventual 
diagnosis is not an excluded condition. Theres nothing wrong with that either, as its an 
industry standard. So, theres no generic duty for Red Sands to have covered any diagnostic 
costs regardless of the eventual diagnosis. Thats not part of the cover provided in this policy 
and its not generally the level of cover provided by any other pet insurer either. 
Its not something the pet insurance industry wishes to cover normally. And further each pet 
insurer is perfectly entitled to decide what it wants to cover and what it doesnt. Its part of its 
commercial discretion which the FCA permits it to use. All pet policies are sold on what is 
technically called a non-advised basis where the insurers only duty is to detail its terms 
clearly so that the consumer can decide if its right for their needs themselves. As I said, Ive 
little information on how Mr W bought his policy or why he possibly changed providers. And if 
that remains an issue for Mr W, he needs to complain about that separately to the entity 
which administered the sale of this policy, as it wasnt Red Sands and this decision is only 
against Red Sands and its decision to refuse to pay his claim.
Its clear to me that when Mr Ws dog collapsed, given how he presented in not being able to 
use his back legs, the cause of this could well have been a spinal disc issue as Mr Ws vet 
initially thought. That to me sounds like a perfectly plausible initial view. And had that turned 
out to be the diagnosis, then Mr Ws claim would have no doubt been paid. But it wasnt and 
even more sadly it related to a condition which was clearly and properly excluded. That 
means Red Sands did nothing wrong in deciding this claim wasnt covered under this policy. 
Obviously if Mr W and his vet had known the likely outcome was going to be cancer, they 
would have had a different conversation about how to proceed but none of that concerns 
Red Sands at all. Thats a matter between Mr W and his vet and most likely concerns how 
his dog also presented to the vet initially with his issues too. Sadly, with any medical 
condition, we dont often know what the diagnosis will be, be it for a human or a pet until its 
investigated. 
And this policy like most other pet policies, only pays claims which arent concerning pre-
existing conditions, regardless of the costs of getting that diagnosis or answer. That is simply 
the limit of the cover provided, so it follows Red Sands did nothing wrong in refusing Mr Ws 
claim.
My final decision
So, whilst I do appreciate Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision, for these reasons 
its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman