DRN-2042926
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A has turned down a scheduled airline failure claim he made on his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr P was abroad on holiday. His airline let him know his return flight had been cancelled. 
And it didnt offer him an alternative flight, although it did refund the cost of the cancelled 
flight. So Mr P paid for a new return flight with a different airline. He made a claim on his 
travel insurance policy for the costs hed incurred.
Mapfre considered the claim under the scheduled airline failure section of Mr Ps policy. 
Initially, it turned the claim down because the airline hadnt been put into insolvency. The 
airline was later deemed to be insolvent and so Mapfre reconsidered Mr Ps claim. It turned 
the claim down because Mr Ps original airline had refunded him the cost of his return flight. 
It said the policy only covered additional travel expenses a policyholder incurred if the 
original airline didnt offer a refund of the flight costs a policyholder had already paid. 
Mr P was unhappy with Mapfres decision. He felt the policy wording was ambiguous. He 
also said the policy covered irrecoverable losses. As he had had to pay out for a new flight 
ticket, he felt this was an irrecoverable loss which should be covered by the policy. He asked 
us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She felt Mapfre had applied 
its policy terms fairly. And she thought the policy wording was sufficiently clear. So she 
considered it was reasonable for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ps claim.
Mr P disagreed. He felt hed only received a partial refund of the expenses hed incurred, 
given hed had to pay for a new ticket. He didnt think the consideration of these charges 
should be limited to just the original ticket. He said no-one else would reimburse him for the 
additional costs hed incurred in having to pay for a new flight, which he expects Mapfre to 
cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ps claim. Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to consider claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down 
claims unreasonably. So Ive considered what happened and the terms of Mr Ps policy to 
decide whether I think Mapfre considered the claim fairly.
Its clear that Mr P had to buy a new return flight ticket, at a significant cost and at his own 
expense, through no fault of his own. I appreciate this mustve been a frustrating situation for 
Mr P to be in and hes been left out of pocket as a result. I completely understand why Mr P 
would like Mapfre to reimburse him for the flight cost he incurred.
But in making my decision, I need to consider what Mr Ps policy does and doesnt cover. 
This is set out in the policy terms. So Ive looked carefully at Section G  scheduled airline 
failure. This says:
We will pay up to the amount shownfor the irrecoverable loss of:
The extra cost of a one way airfare of a standard no greater than the class of journey on the 
outward journey to allow you to complete the return journey of your trip as a result of the 
insolvency or financial failure of the airline on which you are booked to travel causing the 
flight (or flights) on which your trip depends that were subject to advanced booking being 
discontinued and (my emphasis) you not being offered from any other source any 
reasonable alternative flight or refund of charges you have already paid.
The policy defines irrecoverable loss as:
Deposits and charges paid by you for your trip which are not recoverable from any other 
source including but not limited to insurance policies or financial bonds and guarantees 
provided by the scheduled airline or another insurance company or a government agency or 
a travel agent or credit card company.
I think the policy clearly sets out whats covered by this section. Mapfre will pay for a return 
flight if a policyholders original airline financially fails or becomes insolvent, if a policyholder 
isnt offered an alternative flight or refund of the charges theyve already paid. 
In this case, Mr P did incur costs in arranging a new flight after his original airline cancelled 
his flight and was ultimately declared insolvent. But Ive seen an email from the original 
airline which says that it will reimburse Mr P for the unused part of his flight ticket  which 
was the return leg of the journey. Mr P acknowledges that he received a refund of his return 
flight costs.
Its clear that the refund Mr P received from the airline didnt match what he had to pay for 
his new flight. So I can understand why he feels hes only received a partial refund of his 
overall costs. But I think the policy is sufficiently clear that Mapfres only liable for pre-booked 
flight costs that cant be recovered from elsewhere. And Mr P has been refunded for the pre-
paid, pre-booked flight that was cancelled by his original airline. So I dont think Mapfre 
needs to pay him anything more.
Mr P feels the policy covers him for his irrecoverable losses and that his new flight costs fall 
within the policy definition of irrecoverable losses. But the definition isnt independent of the 
rest of Section G  its intended to clarify what Mapfre means by irrecoverable losses when it 
sets out whats covered by this section of the policy. It needs to be read together with section 
G as a whole. I dont think it suggests that Mapfre will cover all irrecoverable losses a 
policyholder suffers as a result of scheduled airline failure. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ps position, I think he was able to recover the pre-paid 
costs of his original flight from the airline. And I dont think the policy covers the costs of the 
new flight he had to pay for. So Ive decided it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ps claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman