DRN-4147335
The complaint
Mr K complains that Paratus AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans) hasnt 
offered him new interest rate products for his three buy to let mortgages. He says this is 
discriminatory as it offers new products to some of its customers.
What happened
Mr K took out three buy to let mortgages with FHL. The mortgages were recommended by a 
broker and taken out via a mortgage intermediary. Mr Ks five-year fixed interest rate 
products expired in 2022. FHL didnt offer him new interest rate products. 
Mr K says he accepts FHL doesnt have to offer new products. But he says its discriminatory 
and unfair that it offers new products to some of its customers. 
FHL said it didnt used to offer new products for existing accounts. It says it recently started 
to offer new products to some customers as a pilot. This doesnt include customers whose 
mortgages were taken out via a third-party mortgage packager or mortgage intermediary  
as Mr Ks mortgage were.
Mr K says he should be treated the same as other customers, regardless of how his 
mortgage was taken out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the buy to let mortgages were 
unregulated and there was no requirement for FHL to offer a new product or treat Mr K the 
same as other customers.
Mr K didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks frustration and the points he makes. Hes right to say that the mortgage 
offer was issued by Paratus and this said the mortgage and the funds were provided by 
Paratus. The mortgage is now administered by Paratus under the FHL trading name. 
Although a mortgage intermediary was involved when the mortgage was taken out, Mr Ks 
lending relationship is with Paratus, and only Paratus can offer him new interest rate. 
FHL says while it didnt originally offer new products to existing customers, it has started to 
do so. However, this is a trial and currently it only offers new products to customers whose 
broker applied to FHL directly, not via a mortgage intermediary or mortgage packager. It 
says this is because of the added complexities involved in indirect applications (which 
involve a third party) and it hasnt yet developed and approved a process for this.
Mr K says this is discriminatory. I think Mr K means this in the more general sense of being 
unfair, rather than this being unlawful discrimination under equalities legislation. For 
completeness though, I should say that we offer an informal dispute resolution service. We 
dont have the power to decide whether or not FHL is in breach of the Equality Act 2010; 
only a court has the power to do this. We do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Mr K accepts that FHL doesnt have to offer new products to its customers. He says its 
unfair for it to offer new products to some customers but not others. I can appreciate why 
Mr K says its unfair that he cant access new products due to the way his mortgage was 
taken out, some five years previously.
Mr Ks mortgages are unregulated, so the rules that apply to regulated mortgages dont 
apply here. But FHL is required to have due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
FHL doesnt offer all of its customers the option of a rate switch, and it doesnt have to do so. 
Its entitled to set criteria about when it offers new products. One of FHLs criteria is that the 
mortgage wasnt taken out via an intermediary, as it says it doesnt have a process in place 
to deal with the additional complexities this involves. FHL says Mr K can apply (via a broker) 
to re-mortgage with a new product. 
Re-mortgaging with a new product would mean Mr K having to submit an application and 
supporting documents, and there could be additional costs compared to a product switch. Its 
possible a re-mortgage application might not be successful (although neither party has said 
this is likely to be the case). If Mr K wants to remain with FHL and take out a new product he 
can consider doing this. Or he could consider taking advice from a broker about what other 
options might be available.
I think its fair to bear in mind that Paratus didnt offer new products to any of its existing 
customers when Mr K took out the mortgages, so he wasnt relying on this when he took out 
his buy to let mortgages with Paratus. The mortgage offers say that after the fixed rate 
products expire a variable rate will apply, and this is whats happened. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Paratus to offer new 
interest rate products to Mr K, when this would be outside its lending criteria and it doesnt 
have a process in place to do this. Paratus isnt required to offer new products to customers, 
and I dont think I can fairly find that Paratus should have expanded its pilot scheme to 
include Mr K. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman