DRN-3333469
The complaint
Miss F complains that the car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS 
Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as BMWFS Financial Services (BMWFS) was 
misrepresented to her.
She also complains about the fairness of a charge BMWFS applied in relation to another hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss F entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car with BMWFS in 2015. For 
the purposes of my decision Ill refer to that as the first agreement.
In March 2018 Miss F terminated that first agreement and entered into another, again with 
BMWFS. Ill refer to that as the second agreement. To terminate the first agreement Miss F 
was required to pay the shortfall to bring her to the voluntary termination point and a charge 
for excess mileage, which she did.
In June 2018 Miss F raised a complaint with BMWFS about the sale of her second 
agreement. She said she had told the supplying dealer that her requirements in ending her 
first agreement and entering into another was that she should be supplied with a similar car 
with the same specification and configuration, and the payments should make her be no 
worse off financially. Miss F said she was aware she needed to pay a sum to terminate the 
first agreement early, but was prepared to do so on the basis that she was provided with 
insurance products to offset that cost.
Miss F raised a number of other issues. In summary, she said;
- A service pack had not been provided as part of the second agreement, but she had 
one previously, so it should have been provided. She wouldve been worse off if she 
had to purchase one.
- Some of the infotainment systems features that were on the previous car were also 
not included and so needed to be purchased.
- Despite the dealer saying the car would have the same configuration as the old car, 
and with Miss F specifically requesting it on a number of occasions, the car did not 
feature folding rear seats.
- She was given the impression that an excess mileage charge was rarely applied, so 
she need not worry about one being applied in relation to the termination of her first 
agreement. Yet she was charged this by BMWFS.
Miss F asked to be provided with a car which met her requirements or to be released from 
the second agreement without cost to her.
I understand that in the meantime Miss F also complained to the supplying dealer. It seems 
that whilst it resolved some of Miss Fs issues, by providing a free service pack for example, 
it wasnt able to do all that Miss F had asked it to. I understand that the supplying dealer 
ultimately offered to buy back Miss Fs car and supply her with the same model supplied 
under the second agreement, but with folding rear seats as she wanted, and discount the 
additional cost of that (£10,000) by some £7,000. This meant that Miss F would have to pay 
a contribution of £3,000. I also understand that Miss F didnt accept this.
BMWFS gave its final response to Miss Fs complaint in September 2018. It said that the 
excess mileage charge had been applied correctly and that the supplying dealer had no 
record of discussing folding rear seats with Miss F prior to the sale. It also said that Miss F 
was presented with the cars specification before signing the second agreement, so she 
would have been able to see the car didnt have folding seats, so it didnt think that the car or 
agreement had been misrepresented.
Miss F brought her complaint to our service. She reiterated the points she had made to 
BMWFS and introduced a point about the fairness of the excess mileage charge, specifically 
that in the first agreement it wasnt clear the mileage allowance would be charged on a pro- 
rata basis if the agreement ended early. She also said that if that had been made clear, she 
wouldve kept the car, not exceeded the mileage allowance, and then terminated the 
agreement once shed made sufficient payments to do so without further cost to her.
One of our investigators upheld the complaint, albeit in part. Firstly, they were satisfied that 
BMWFS had applied the excess mileage charge correctly having taken into account Miss Fs 
agreement as well as relevant legislation - the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). With 
specific reference to the relevant legislation, they said;
- S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
- In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable 
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
- S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination.
- The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Miss Fs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
- The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement.
- The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Miss Fs accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount for excess mileage.
- The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost.
- The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.- The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess 
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amounts.
Lastly, our investigator found that Miss Fs version of events in relation to her complaint 
about folding seats had been persuasive. Our investigator said that Miss F likely wouldnt 
have entered into the second agreement until shed paid a sufficient amount to end her first 
one early, without further cost, so, he recommended that BMWFS pay Miss F;
- The early settlement, or voluntary termination, charge she paid of £2,702.51 with 
simple interest added; and
- £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and for the 
inconvenience of not having a car with folding seats.
Miss F agreed, but BMWFS disagreed. It said it didnt consider there was sufficient evidence 
to suggest that Miss F had been led to believe shed be supplied with a car with folding rear 
seats. It also said that the cars were different in size and models and what might be a free 
option on one car may not necessarily be free on another. It also suggested that Miss F 
couldve compared the vehicle specifications and proposals on both agreements to 
determine the differences. Lastly, it said that it hadnt responded to a complaint about the 
fairness of an excess mileage charge.
Whilst the complaint has been with our service, Miss F terminated her second agreement in 
January 2021. I understand that she had paid the necessary minimum amount to terminate 
early, and she also paid an excess mileage charge.
The case was passed to me and I made a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
This complaint is about two separate hire purchase agreements, both of which were 
provided by BMWFS. From what Ive seen, I dont think that BMWFS has responded to Miss 
Fs complaint about the fairness of the excess mileage charge. Nonetheless, BMWFS didnt 
object to our investigator giving a perspective on it, so thats where Ill start.
The fairness of the excess mileage charge as a term in the contract
Ive considered the first hire purchase agreement Miss F entered into with BMWFS in 2015. 
It allowed Miss F use of the car, subject to certain conditions. One of those was only driving 
a certain distance each year and overall throughout the agreement. The agreement set out 
what would happen should Miss F not meet those requirements.
Miss F exercised her right to end the agreement. In some instances, voluntary termination 
allows the hirer to simply hand the car back without having to pay anything more. But that is 
dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, whether 
there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess mileage or 
other charges are due.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Miss Fs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Miss F is liable to 
pay any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that 
these charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Miss Fs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to pay any excess 
mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Miss Fs 
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary, 
sets out that so long as Miss F has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding 
the mileage might apply.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Miss F.
Miss Fs liability under her agreement with BMWFS was not capped at the minimum amount 
she needed to pay to terminate the agreement early. Miss F accepts, I think, that she was 
required to pay an additional sum to terminate the agreement early. From what shes said I 
also think she was aware that under her agreement shed be required to pay a charge for 
excess mileage. She has, however, questioned whether the agreement was clear. Given the 
reasons above, Im satisfied that the agreement was clear in relation to the sums Miss F 
would be required to pay, and BMWFS acted fairly by applying a pro-rated charge for excess 
mileage.
Was Miss Fs second agreement mis-brokered, misrepresented or mis-described
Miss Fs allegations of misrepresentation are in relation to things she was told by the 
supplying dealer before entering into her second agreement, rather than BMWFS. I can 
consider a complaint about antecedent negotiations carried out by the supplying dealer 
against BMWFS because section 56 of the CCA says that it can be held liable for those 
negotiations.
Establishing what was discussed between Miss F and the supplying dealer isnt straight 
forward given I wasnt party to any of the conversations they had. And the only documented 
negotiated conversations Ive seen between Miss F and the supplying dealer are regarding 
the service pack.
But I neednt see documentary evidence of everything that was said. When the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence Ive been provided in relation to this case. Like 
our investigator, Ive found that Miss Fs version of events has been plausible, persuasive 
and consistent. And I note that when asked by BMWFS, the supplying dealer said it had no 
record of discussing folding seats, but didnt appear to dispute having discussed the other particular criteria Miss F has talked about.
So, overall, Im persuaded that Miss F entered into her second agreement having agreed 
with the supplying dealer that she wouldnt be worse off financially in respect of her monthly 
payments and the car would meet the same specification and/or configuration. I also accept 
that she was likely told an excess mileage charge might not be applied in relation to the 
termination of her first agreement.
Dealing firstly with the excess mileage charge; I accept that if Miss F was told that the 
charge was rarely applied, it was misleading based on what BMWFS has subsequently said. 
I also accept it couldve influenced Miss Fs decision to terminate the agreement, but I dont 
think it did in this case. I say this because Miss Fs use of both cars exceeded the mileage 
allowances on both agreements, so I think she wouldve paid a charge for excess mileage at 
some point, whether she ended the agreement at the point she did, or later.
Additionally, based on what Miss F has said, Im not satisfied or persuaded that she was 
given any assurances that a charge definitely wouldnt be applied. So, I dont think Miss F 
ought reasonably to have believed that would be the case. Ive also seen that Miss F was 
sent a termination pack from BMWFS on 17 March 2018, before she entered into the second 
agreement. I think that pack was clear on the charges which could apply on termination in 
respect of excess mileage. If Miss F had any doubts about whether or not an excess mileage 
charge would be applied, I think she couldve clarified this with BMWFS before committing to 
the second agreement.
In respect of the service pack and infotainment subscription, I think the relevant question I 
need to answer here is whether it was reasonable for Miss F to expect those things to be 
provided on the basis that the new car would be the same specification and configuration.
I think that most people would expect that to mean that the cars physical features would be 
broadly the same and meet an equivalent standard. In my view a service pack and 
infotainment subscription wouldnt usually be referred to as part of a cars specification, or 
configuration. In any case, Im aware that Miss F negotiated the inclusion of a service pack 
before entering into the agreement. But I dont think that Miss F was assured, or reasonably 
ought to believe she would get a free infotainment system subscription.
From what Miss F has said I think the crux of her complaint is about whether or not she was 
led to believe the car would feature folding rear seats. Shes spoken at length about having 
stressed their importance during negotiations with the supplying dealer, particularly because 
shed previously had use of the same brand of car which didnt feature them as standard 
equipment.
I think that most people would consider the addition of folding rear seats to come under a 
description of a cars configuration. And given the necessity to purchase them as an extra, I 
also think they could be considered to be part of the cars specification in this particular case.
I accept Miss F could have done her own research regarding the extras the car might come 
with and that she was provided with the cars specification. But I think its fair to assume that 
Miss Fs knowledge of what equipment and features come as standard with certain cars was 
less sophisticated than the supplying dealers. Given the apparent ambiguity about whether 
certain cars come with folding rear seats as standard, I think it was reasonable for Miss F to 
interpret that if the car was the same specification and configuration, it would have folding 
rear seats.
So, Im persuaded that Miss F was likely led to believe the car she was supplied with under 
the second agreement would come with folding rear seats, and I think it was a key consideration that caused her to enter into the contract.
Miss F has said that she wouldnt have entered into the second agreement if she hadnt 
been misled about the folding rear seats, which I accept. I dont, however, accept that Miss F 
wouldve waited until the point she didnt need to pay any additional sums to terminate the 
first agreement.
I say this on the basis that aside from the folding rear seats, Miss F appears to have 
otherwise been satisfied with the car she was supplied with  Ive seen an email from her 
conveying that sentiment to the supplying dealer. It also seems that other than the particular 
issues Miss F raised about folding seats, a service pack and infotainment subscription, Miss 
F was also satisfied with the deal she received in respect of the finance agreement.
Im also satisfied that Miss F was prepared to end her first agreement early in the knowledge 
that shed need to pay a sum to reach the minimum required to terminate the agreement, 
because she was provided with insurance products which she says offset the cost and she 
wouldve purchased in any event.
I cant say for sure what I think Miss F wouldve done if she knew the car didnt come with 
folding rear seats. In my view though, I think she wouldve sought an alternative car with 
folding rear seats at the same time, if one had been available. If shed done that, shed likely 
be in the same position, financially at least, as she has been throughout the second 
agreement. But, in terms of asking BMWFS to put things right, I need to decide whats fair 
given the subsequent events which played out.
As Ive explained above, I dont think Miss F has lost out financially, even if she was led to 
believe the car would have folding rear seats when it didnt. The impact of this situation, in 
my view, is that Miss F has been inconvenienced by not being able to make use of folding 
rear seats for the duration of the second agreement.
Before issuing my decision, our investigator asked Miss F to explain the impact this had on 
her. Shes explained that the issue came to light some months after taking ownership of the 
car whilst attempting to load something long at a garden centre. Shes also specified that the 
impact over the duration of the agreement is that she needed to borrow a van on occasion, 
or pay for delivery of items when required.
Given what Miss F has said, I think its fair to say that her use of the car wasnt significantly 
impaired due to its lack of rear folding seats. Particularly because it seems that she 
exceeded the mileage allowance of the second agreement. It seems to me that it caused 
infrequent inconvenience, which I accept is nonetheless frustrating for Miss F. All things 
considered, based on the impact Miss F says shes been caused, I think she ought to be 
compensated with £500 for the inconvenience of not being provided with a car with folding 
rear seats. But Im not persuaded that shes otherwise lost out financially as a result of 
whats happened, so I dont intend to make any further award.
Both BMWFS and Miss F responded. BMWFS highlighted that the two cars were 
fundamentally different  the first was a car built for large boot space and comes with folding 
rear seats as standard. The second was a saloon and didnt include as many free options. It 
suggested that Miss F had a responsibility to check that the new car met the specifications 
she required. Miss F disagreed and maintained that she had been misled to the extent that it 
resulted in her paying an early termination charge she otherwise wouldnt have.
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further submissions from both parties in response to my provisional 
decision, neither have caused me to change my mind on the case. Ill explain why.
I accept the point BMWFS has made about different models of cars featuring different 
equipment, specification and configuration as standard. But, for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision, Im still of the opinion that Miss F was likely told that the new cars 
specification and configuration would be the same as the old one. And I dont think that was 
an accurate description in this case. 
Additionally, while I accept that the cars were different  one seems to be a hatchback and 
the other a saloon  they werent fundamentally different to the extent that it wasnt possible 
for them to both feature folding rear seats. So, I dont think the differences of the cars ought 
to have caused Miss F to realise that the new one didnt meet the specification or 
configuration she required.
I also accept the point Miss F made  that she was likely misled. I dont however accept that 
the result of what happened is that she paid an early termination charge she otherwise 
would not have. As my provisional decision explained, I think Miss F ended up in the position 
she wanted to be in, insofar as the car she received, albeit without the use of folding rear 
seats. I accept that caused her inconvenience during her ownership of the car, and she 
should be compensated £500 for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as BMW Financial Services is required to pay Miss F £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman