DRN-3773384
The complaint
Miss W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly gave her a credit 
card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In July 2018, Miss Ws credit card was opened by Vanquis with an initial credit limit of 
£500. The credit limit was increased on three occasions; to £1,000 in October 2018, to 
£1,950 in February 2021 and to £2,700 in July 2021. 
In 2022, Miss W complained to Vanquis to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Vanquis ought to have made a better effort 
to understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card and increasing 
her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss W didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ws complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis 
has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss W provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Miss Ws 
name to assess Miss Ws level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Vanquis 
decided to agree to the credit limits at the various times. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the times of the lending decisions. 
Our investigator has set out in some detail the financial situation that Vanquis saw at each 
stage of the lending. So, I wont repeat that in detail in this decision. 
But in summary, Miss W has provided us her full credit report and this shows that at each 
credit lending decision Miss W had modest other borrowings - and these decreased to 
almost nothing over the lifetime of the account. Miss Ws bank statements showed a steady 
income that matched the outgoings and a current account balance that was run in credit. 
And I have noted that Miss Ws credit file was clean at the time of each lending decision. 
There were some adverse markings on the credit report but they were not in the recent past 
at the time of each lending decision. There was a default on the credit checks in June 2019 
but that was after the first two lending decisions and would not have affected those 
decisions. And the default was over 18 months and two years before the third and fourth 
lending decisions respectively. And whilst Vanquis took note of it, it wasnt, in itself, 
sufficient in size or nearness in time to have put them off providing further lending to Miss 
W. 
So, it seemed to Vanquis at the time, that the credit report file showed that Miss W was 
affording her existing credit at the point that the lending decisions were made. And so, 
Vanquis were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I 
dont think that the information that Vanquis had at the time of the lending decision, would 
have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Miss Ws financial 
position. 
And Vanquis also could rely on the information it had about how Miss W was managing her 
account in deciding whether to increase her credit limit. And the account was run well with 
no missed or late payments until after the lending decisions had been made. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Vanquis at the time it made its lending 
decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
information that Vanquis acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, 
would have led them to think that the credit they were offering was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Vanquis provided to Miss W was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman