DRN-3612362
The complaint
Mr D complained the Prudential Assurance Company Limited had been wrongly making 
deductions from his annuity income. 
What happened
Mr D is unhappy that Prudential have been deducting money from his pension annuity 
income to pay to a third-party. He says this has been without his permission and is 
inconsistent with his agreement with them. He wants these sums repaid.
There has been some history to this complaint. In March 2020 Prudential received a 
deduction of earnings order (DEO) from a third-party in respect of deductions to be made 
directly from Mr Ds annuity payments. Mr D wasnt happy about these deductions being 
made. Prudential explained they were required to make the deductions. In November 2020 
Prudential was instructed by the third-party to stop making the deductions.
In June 2021 a new DEO was supplied to Prudential and they started making deductions 
from Mr Ds annuity payments in line with this.
In September 2021 Prudential replied to a further complaint from Mr D about the deductions 
and confirmed they were required to act in accordance with the DEO until instructed 
otherwise by the third-party. They reminded Mr D that if he thought the deductions were 
incorrect, he ought to contact the third-party.
Mr D continued to dispute the deductions and said he didnt agree Prudential were legally 
obliged to comply with the order. He said the third-party had admitted they didnt have 
evidence against him and so he thinks the DEO is illegal. He suggested it was incumbent 
upon Prudential to ensure a request was lawful before making the deduction.
Prudential acknowledged Mr D was concerned about the legality of the DEO, but said they 
were required to comply with the order. Any challenge to the DEO had to made to the third-
party. Mr D was given referral right to this service. Mr D didnt accept the response or that 
the DEO could be described as a court order.
Prudential didnt agree they had done anything wrong and provided Mr D with further 
information on the statute that set out how certain relevant orders could be applied. They 
explained that whilst this type of DEO is not strictly granted through the court system it is an 
offence to fail to comply with the order. Mr D was reminded of his referral rights to this 
service. Prudential went on to decline to classify the deductions made from Mr Ds annuity 
payments as unauthorised. 
Mr D told Prudential he thought it was right to say that Prudential had accepted liability for 
making unlawful payments to the third party as they were not prepared to make enquiries 
with the third party about their DEO. He also wanted Prudential to point to where his 
agreement confirmed Prudential could make unauthorised deductions.
On 17 December 2021 Prudential told Mr D in essence that they had nothing further to add 
and they would no longer communicate with him in respect of these concerns. Mr D then 
sent a message on 18 February 2022 complaining about payments being made to a third-
party from his account without his consent.
Prudential say Mr D needs to contact the third-party if he doesnt agree with the order, and in 
respect of his concerns about the orders legal status. Prudential do not accept this means 
they accept any liability in respect of the deductions applied.
On 2 March 2022 Prudential wrote to Mr D and told him they were not upholding his 
complaint. They said this was in line with their previous letters to him. Their letter went on to 
repeat that a DEO is a legal document and as such they were required to adhere to the 
order. Prudential noted they could be liable to legal action if they did not.
Prudential repeated to Mr D that if he disagreed with the order then he ought to speak to the 
third-party organisation concerned. They also signposted to Mr D the additional information 
and guidance available on the UK government website, including the obligations that applied 
to employers and pension providers on this DEO.
Prudential explained to Mr D that because they were paying him his annuity income, they 
were classed in the same way as an employer when it came to such orders, as annuity 
income was dealt with as income.
 
Investigators view
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He accepted the reasons why Prudential 
had made the deductions had been evidenced by copies of communications from the third 
party and that these were valid reasons. He thought Prudential had acted in line with their 
obligations. The investigator signposted that any concerns or issues about the DEO needed 
to be made to the third party. He also noted other avenues for Mr D to consider if he wanted 
advice.
Prudential didnt respond to the investigators view.
Mr Ds response to the investigators view
Mr D didnt agree. He thought he had provided evidence as to why the deductions from his 
annuity income ought not to have been made. He felt Prudential were giving priority to the 
third-party over him and he didnt think this was fair. He thought Prudential had a duty to 
verify the debt since he had disputed it.
He also didnt agree Prudential were required to comply with the order. He referred to having 
seen ACAS guidance about unauthorised deductions, albeit he let us know he wasnt sure if 
this was correct. However Mr D said he was certain the head of the third-party had 
confirmed a DEO is an administrative route and that meant it wasnt a legal order. So he said 
Prudential had been wrong to say they were legally required to comply with the DEO.
The investigator let Mr D know that some of Mr Ds thinking on ACAS didnt apply. He also 
explained he had not been commenting on legal issues but had considered whether 
Prudential had done something wrong. Here he thought Prudential had acted fairly, as they 
had acted in line with their obligations.
Mr D continues to disagree with the investigator. He says in summary:
Prudential ought to have confirmed the debt was owed Prudential ought to have done something to clarify with the third-party whether the 
DEO was a legal or administrative request for money
Based on what Mr D had told Prudential, he thinks Prudential ought to have written to 
the third-party (and not just a phone call) and required a written reply as to whether 
Prudential would be prosecuted if they withheld the money until Mr Ds case with the 
third-party was concluded,
Mr D said he had been in dispute with the third-party for three years and so he didnt need to 
be advised to contact them. He said his case was finally being reviewed and he thought it 
looked like the third-party would admit they had been at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint against Prudential. Prudential have not done anything 
wrong here. Prudential acted in the way they were required to do in respect of the 
deductions. I dont accept there was anything here that ought reasonably to have required 
Prudential to do anything differently. I have also seen Prudential provided information and 
explanation to Mr D and let him know how any challenge to the DEO and deductions would 
need to be approached.
 
Mr D feels very strongly about the deductions. But this is a matter that needs to be pursued 
with the third-party. I see from what Mr D has more recently told us, this is something he has 
been, and continues to pursue. That isnt a matter for me.
Personal and company pension annuity payments are classified as income payments in 
these circumstances. Where a DEO is provided by the relevant third-party agency, the 
annuity provider is required to make the deductions in line with the DEO. This is standard 
procedure and well-established, it is set out for example on the UK government website. And 
if deductions are not made by an employer/ annuity provider, this is considered an offence. 
This is covered in the statutory references Prudential previously supplied to Mr D, including 
section 32 of the Child Support Act 1991.
 
I accept this doesnt mean Prudential would necessarily be fined or even prosecuted, but 
equally I dont accept this means they were wrong to make the deductions.
There are only limited circumstances where a provider is able to make an authorised 
deduction from an annuity once it is being paid. But in general terms this is one of those 
circumstances. Here the DEOs provided by the third-party to Prudential were properly 
accepted by Prudential.
We havent been told any detail about why Mr D thinks the DEO ought not to have been 
made, and that isnt relevant to what I have needed to consider. Generally a DEO is only 
made where there are arrears; usually where a repayment plan hasnt been able to be 
agreed or where a payment plan has not been adhered to. But again these arent matters of 
relevance to Prudential or what I have needed to consider.
When Prudential were informed of the DEO, they were right to act in accordance with it and 
set up the deductions. I accept Prudential followed their usual procedure when informed by 
the third-party agency of the DEO. I dont accept there was any duty upon Prudential to 
make further enquiries on the basis Mr D said he didnt agree with the order, nor ought 
Prudential to have reasonably been expected to do anything differently here.Whilst a DEO is not a court order per se, it comes with statutory and regulatory guidance 
and authority in terms of application and the potential penalties on an employer/ annuity 
provider.  So whilst Prudential were technically in error when they referred on one occasion 
to the DEO being a court order, this was corrected later and I dont accept it would have 
been likely to put Mr D at any disadvantage or cause him any detriment. There is further 
well-established guidance available on what someone needs to do if they dont agree with a 
DEO. This does not involve the employer/ annuity provider at all. 
Prudential are required to act in accordance with a DEO, as they did here. As such this 
requirement does take priority over any dis-satisfaction or challenge expressed by Mr D to 
Prudential. Such deductions made under a DEO are known as authorised deductions, and 
just because Mr D does not agree to the deduction this does not make it unauthorised.
There is guidance provided by ACAS about unauthorised deductions, but I dont accept they 
apply here. Such deductions are well established as lawful and authorised deductions, which 
need to be challenged directly with the third-party.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint about the Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman