DRN-3833130
The complaint
Ms H complains Quilter Wealth Ltd made an error when it sold her an income protection 
policy, and says this caused her claim to be declined.
What happened
Ms H held an income protection policy which she originally took out in 2016, on the advice of 
Quilter. In 2022, Ms H contacted her insurer to make a claim, as she was due to undergo 
knee surgery and would require time off work for a substantial recovery period. 
The insurer turned down Ms Hs claim. It said she wasnt eligible for the policy because she 
hadnt been resident in the UK for three years at the point of inception. And she hadnt 
disclosed a previous right knee surgery, which it said would have caused it to add an 
exclusion to the policy for claims related to that knee. Ms H said she told Quilter about the 
previous surgery, and believes it failed to pass the information on to the insurer. And she 
thought the residency issue had no relevance to her claim.  
Ms H complained to Quilter. It said its employee had failed to disclose Ms Hs knee surgery 
to the insurer. However, it said the insurer had sent Ms H a copy of her policy application 
form when the policy was incepted. This showed no disclosure of knee surgery, and Quilter 
said Ms H had a responsibility to check the information was correct. 
Quilter said the insurer had since cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums Ms H had 
paid. It noted the insurer had cited an additional reason for cancelling the policy, related to 
Ms Hs residency prior to taking out the cover, which it said it wasnt responsible for, as the 
insurer had not asked it to obtain that information. It offered to pay her interest at 8% on the 
premium refund the insurer had issued. Plus £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset it 
had caused.
Unhappy with Quilters response, Ms H brought her complaint to this service. She said the 
reason she had taken out the policy was to provide cover for future issues with her knees. 
And said Quilters employee had confirmed to her that there would be no exclusion in 
relation to knee conditions.  
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they thought Quilter had 
done enough to put Ms H back in the position she would have been in, had it not made an 
error with her application. And said they thought it was likely Ms H would have been unable 
to find an income protection policy elsewhere, which would have provided the cover she 
wanted.
Quilter made no comment on the investigators view. However Ms H disagreed. In summary 
she said she didnt think her knee issues were long term at the time she took the policy out. 
And said had she been told her right knee would be excluded from cover due to an operation 
in the previous five years, she would have chosen not to take the policy, and would have 
waited another two years and then obtained cover. And she said at that point two years later, 
there also wouldnt have been any residency issues. 
Ms H asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say as Quilter provided 
advice, it had a responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms H when it sold it to 
her. 
Having done so, I think Quilter made an error when it sold the policy, but has done enough 
to put things right. And Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I should clarify that in this complaint, Im reviewing the actions of Quilter, and not the 
insurer who provided Ms Hs income protection policy. So Ive not considered the points Ms 
H has made about her residency prior to taking out the policy. As the investigator has said, 
the insurer found Ms H was ineligible for the policy due to having not resided in the UK for 
the full three years prior to taking the cover. And the insurer didnt ask Quilter to supply or 
check that information. So, if Ms H would like to pursue a complaint about her eligibility for 
the policy in relation to her past residency, she would need to complain directly to the 
insurer. 
Im aware Ms H has concerns around Quilter having not provided call recordings of her 
conversations regarding her application for the policy. However, Quilter has said it no longer 
has the recordings. It has provided its notes from the fact find and has accepted Ms H 
disclosed the relevant information about her past knee problems. As Quilter is not disputing 
that Ms H provided accurate information about her health and has agreed it made an error, 
Ive gone on to consider what happened as a consequence, and how things should be put 
right. 
The insurer has said it would not have offered cover for Ms Hs right knee, had it been told of 
her medical history. Ms H had previously undergone a knee operation and physio treatment 
to her right knee, which Quilters fact find document shows she disclosed. So had Quilter 
passed this information on to the insurer as it should have done, the insurer has said it would 
have offered the policy but with an exclusion for the knee. 
So, it would have been for Ms H to decide whether she wanted to go ahead with the policy 
with the exclusion, or to seek cover elsewhere. Its common for insurers providing income 
protection policies to impose exclusions in circumstances similar to these. And I note the did 
just that for other conditions Ms H had including asthma. And I think its unlikely Ms H would 
have been able to obtain the cover she wanted for her knee with another insurer at the time. 
Ive noted Ms H has since said, had she been correctly advised by Quilter that the insurer 
couldnt offer cover for her knee, that she would have waited for two years, and then sought 
cover again. And she has said the sole reason for taking the policy, was to ensure cover for 
future knee problems. Whilst I accept this was a possible course of action, I think Ms H is 
exercising some benefit of hindsight here. At the time in 2016, Ms H wouldnt have known 
whether or not she would be trouble-free from any knee issues over the next two years. And 
it seems clear from the fact find documentation, that Ms H wanted to take out a policy in 
2016 and that this was intended to provide cover for accidents and sickness in general, and 
not just for knee issues. Ive not been sufficiently persuaded that had it not been for Quilters error, Ms H would have 
taken out a policy two years later in 2018, and would have been able to make a successful 
claim when she needed surgery in 2022. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to direct Quilter to pay an amount equivalent to that which Ms H could potentially have 
received. Instead, Ms H should be put back in the position she would have been in, had 
Quilter passed on the medical disclosure about the knee to the insurer, and she had decided 
not to take the policy. 
The insurer has refunded Ms H the premiums paid. And Quilter has offered to pay interest at 
8% on the premiums. Im satisfied this sufficiently puts Ms H back in the same position 
financially, as if shed not taken the policy out. 
Quilter has also offered £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error 
has caused Ms H. And in the particular circumstances of this case, I think the compensation 
fairly reflects the impact Quilters mistake has had. Although Quilter made the error, I do 
think Ms H had an opportunity to notice this and to raise it, as she was sent a copy of the 
application by the insurer. And, whilst Ive noted Ms Hs comments around her distress due 
to the insurer declining her claim, I dont think a larger award is appropriate here. Firstly 
because Ive not been persuaded Ms H would have had a policy in place which would have 
paid out, regardless of Quilters error. And secondly, because there was another reason the 
insurer cited for voiding the policy - an issue with Ms Hs residency leading up to inception of 
the policy  which was unrelated to Quilters mistake.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think Quilter Wealth Ltds offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So my final decision is that I direct Quilter Wealth Ltd to pay Ms H the 
following, if it hasnt already done so: 
£150 in compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused; and
interest at 8% simple from the date the premiums were originally paid to the insurer, 
to the date they were refunded. 
Quilter Wealth Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
the consumer accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman