DRN-4151753
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank (SWB) failed to 
respond to his solicitors enquiries about whether his remortgage and transfer of title could 
go ahead. The offer he had then expired. Mr G wanted SWB to cover the resulting costs.
What happened
Mr G told us that he needed to remove a party from his mortgage, as part of his divorce. He 
got an offer from SWB, and his solicitors sent the documents to SWB in good time to 
execute the transfer at the end of March 2022. But he said SWB simply failed to respond, 
and the offer he got then expired.
Mr G said hed needed to get a mortgage offer elsewhere as a result, and he wanted SWB to
pay the costs he was going to incur, including the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) for
moving his mortgage and the difference in interest he would incur. He also wanted it to pay
the additional solicitors costs, and compensation for the stress this had all caused him.
SWB said it agreed that it had caused delays with his remortgage, and it had made an offer
to put things right.
SWB said it issued a mortgage offer in Mr Gs sole name, on 14 October 2021, to be valid
for six months, so until 14 April 2022. SWB did get the emails Mr Gs solicitors sent on 15
and 29 March 2022 asking if it was happy with the TR1 form, transferring legal ownership of
Mr Gs property. SWB said all solicitors have access to the UK Finance Mortgage Lenders
Handbook and if Mr Gs solicitors had checked that, theyd have seen that SWB doesnt
need to see or approve the TR1 form. SWB also said it hadnt asked to see this form.
But SWB said it didnt know why it hadnt replied to Mr Gs solicitors emails. That was a
mistake. So SWB said it was going to pay Mr G £150 in compensation, and it would honour
his previous mortgage offer. When it spoke to Mr G about this complaint, it told him he could
still have the fixed rate of 1.84% until 28 February 2023, that it had offered in October 2021.
This was to make sure Mr G was in the same position as if the delay hadnt incurred.
SWB said Mr G told it hed agreed a mortgage elsewhere, at a higher rate, although it
appears he hadnt yet taken this out. And SWB said Mr G wanted it to waive the ERC on his
mortgage, cover the additional interest he would pay, and pay his additional solicitors costs.
SWB said it wouldnt pay the costs for the transfer of equity, because Mr Gs solicitors had
charged a fee for this service which Mr G would always have had to pay, regardless of which
mortgage provider he decided to go with. And it wouldnt waive the ERC, or cover any
difference in interest rates, if Mr G chose to go elsewhere for a mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said SWB had apologised
for not responding to Mr Gs solicitors and paid £150 for the impact this had on Mr G, which
she thought was fair and reasonable for this mistake. She said although SWB had failed to
respond to Mr Gs solicitors, there was actually no need for SWB to see this form in order for
Mr G to accept its offer, so she didnt think SWB had to refund to Mr G the ERC hed paid.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he was very confused as to how SWB was absolved from any
responsibility for responding to a customer or to the customers solicitor. And he said SWB
had accepted it hadnt kept accurate records, thats why it didnt reply. He said he couldnt
understand how hed been left paying a significant amount of money, when he had acted
professionally and to timetable throughout. But our investigator didnt change her mind.
Mr G said that we knew SWB hadnt kept adequate financial records, and hadnt acted in line
with its own terms and conditions. He said failing to respond in a rising market would benefit
SWB, as it could charge more for any new offer. Mr G wanted this case to be considered by
an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision 
on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Mr G received an offer in October 2021, which was due to expire six months later. SWB 
said it didnt hear from him again until mid-March. I dont find that surprising, as Id 
expect Mr G had a considerable number of other matters to arrange, in finalising his 
divorce. 
On 15 March, Mr Gs solicitors wrote to SWB, to check it was happy to go ahead with 
the proposed transfer, or if it would like to see any other documentation before it did so.
SWB accepts it received another enquiry on 28 March, asking the same question, and 
that it didnt reply to either of these.
SWB says it didnt need to check the document it had been sent. But Mr Gs lawyers 
werent just asking SWB to clear or approve the TR1 form. They were asking if SWB 
was happy for a transfer to go ahead, on the basis of this form alone, or if it would like to 
see further documentation. I dont know if SWB had already seen a court order in this 
case, or whether it would have wished to do so. But in these circumstances, this doesnt 
seem to me like an unreasonable question for Mr Gs lawyers to have asked. And even 
if SWB had no interest at all in any of the documentation which would be used to effect 
the transfer, I still think that having been asked twice whether it was happy for things to 
go ahead, SWB ought to have replied to that enquiry. It didnt do so.
SWB has paid £150 to compensate for this. But I think that receiving no response to this 
query, and not feeling able to go ahead with a transfer apparently required by a court 
order (with a deadline fast approaching) would have been extremely stressful for Mr G. 
So I think SWB should pay an extra £100 in compensation, for that failure to respond.
Mr G also wanted SWB to pay the extra costs he faced because of this, his solicitors 
fees, as well as the costs of the new mortgage. But SWB said the fees he shared with it 
were the costs of a transfer. I agree with SWB that Mr G would always have had to pay 
the costs of a transfer, so, without more evidence on this point, I wouldnt say SWB had 
to cover this cost.
However, Mr G or his solicitors may be able to demonstrate that Mr Gs costs were 
higher because of what SWB did, either because of charges for the abortive attempts to 
remortgage with SWB, or because Mr G needed to return to court afterwards solely 
because SWB hadnt responded to his solicitors in March 2022. And if Mr G does wish 
to submit such further evidence, I will consider this point. (If Mr G does wish to submit further evidence on this point, it would be helpful if his solicitors could confirm the 
reason any additional charges were incurred, and the amount of those charges.)
It also appears that Mr G hadnt yet remortgaged, when SWB told him it would honour 
its October 2021 offer. And many, if not all, of the costs Mr G said he incurred from a 
higher interest rate mortgage with a different lender could have been avoided if Mr G 
had accepted that offer. 
On what Ive seen to date, I think this offer could have formed part of a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. However, Mr G chose not to accept this. Whilst I 
accept that Mr G had received poor service from SWB, I would expect SWB to be given 
a chance to put things right. I dont think that means it has to pay any additional costs, 
which Mr G chose to incur because he didnt wish to deal with SWB in future.
If Mr G would like to submit evidence of any additional costs which he feels werent 
avoidable for him, at the time when SWB made its offer, then I will consider that. 
However, my current view is that any such evidence would need to show that Mr G was 
compelled to go ahead with previous arrangements to remortgage away from SWB, not 
that he simply chose to do so, and again, Mr Gs solicitors would need to confirm this 
was the case. 
On the basis of my current understanding of this complaint, I would propose only to ask
SWB to pay Mr G an additional £100, on top of the £150 it has already paid.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SWB replied to accept my decision. Mr G confirmed hed received it, and said that whilst he 
wasnt particularly happy with the outcome, he would accept it. 
Mr G that his biggest concern was really how SWB was treating its customers, and he wasnt 
sure the outcome here would fire a sufficient warning shot that SWB needed to be more 
focused on client delivery and service, particularly as he still thought FCA guidelines had 
been breached. Mr G said in a time when things are already so difficult for consumers, 
closing all access to his account so that he couldnt contact SWB on any matter, seemed
incredibly poor.
Mr G said he would like some comfort that SWB would learn from this incident and treat its 
customers fairly and professionally going forward. He said he wasnt sure how the proposed 
resolution will do this. He said it felt as if it would simply be swept under the carpet.
Unfortunately, Im not able to give Mr G any cast-iron guarantees that SWB will change its 
procedures for the future, nor am I able to increase the compensation in this case to a level 
where it might have the punitive or preventative effect that he would like. Thats simply 
because what Mr G would like us to do here isnt within the remit of our service. 
My role is to look at the complaint in front of me, and to assess its impact on Mr G. I must 
base my assessment of the appropriate compensation just on that. We arent a regulator. 
Our service doesnt fine or punish a business. So Im sorry to have to tell Mr G that we cant make the sort of award in this case that he suggests, or direct SWB to make the general 
improvements in future cases he would like to see.  
Having responded to Mr Gs concerns, I would just note that neither side has offered any 
further evidence in this case. And I havent changed my mind. So Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank must pay Mr G 
£100, in addition to the £150 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman