DRN-1420076
The complaint
Mr O complains about a short term loan that he took out with Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which he said was unaffordable. He is also 
unhappy that EFL said it would remove the default it had applied to his credit file, but then 
revoked its offer to do so.
What happened
Mr O took out a loan with EFL for £400 on 15 May 2018. The loan was repayable by four 
monthly instalments with a highest instalment of £139.78. The loan hasnt been repaid.
EFL said that it had carried out a credit check before the loan and asked Mr O for details of 
his income and expenditure. EFL also verified Mr Os declared monthly income of £1,900. 
EFL increased Mr Os declared expenditure from £650 to £800 to reflect what it had seen in 
its checks. It said that the figures provided by Mr O showed sufficient disposable income to 
repay the loan instalments.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it 
would have been proportionate for EFL to have asked Mr O for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. She noted that EFL had carried out a credit 
search. She said that there was adverse information present on the search but it wasnt 
recent. The adjudicator also said that there were no defaults on the search within the last 12 
months. Shed not seen enough to make her think that EFL should have made further 
enquiries or declined Mr Os application. She also noted that Mr O had provided information 
about other short term loans outstanding with late payments and defaults but she said that 
these had occurred after EFLs loan was taken out. 
The adjudicator also noted from EFLs contact logs that it had offered to remove the default it 
had applied to Mr Os credit file. But this offer was cancelled as the repayment plans it had 
agreed with Mr O hadnt been successful. She could see that only one payment of £50 had 
been made in December 2018.
The adjudicator also noted that Mr O had said that a member of EFLs staff had insulted him 
during a call. But shed said that there was no call recording to evidence this. So she couldnt 
safely conclude that EFLs staff member had insulted Mr O.
Mr O disagreed. He queried whether his credit reports had been taken into account by the 
adjudicator. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to investigate.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. When EFL lent to Mr O the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
EFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Os 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that EFL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that EFL was required to establish whether 
Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
EFL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr O. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr O declared his monthly income as £1,900 and his expenditure as £650. His 
declared expenditure included £300 spent on credit commitments. But EFL increased Mr Os 
declared expenditure to £800 following its checks and it calculated Mr Os disposable 
income as £1,100. 
I note that EFL carried out a credit check before agreeing to the loan. EFL has provided this 
service with its credit check. I can see that Mr O had ten active credit accounts and that five 
accounts had been opened in the previous six months. Mr O had a total outstanding credit 
balance of £16,297 of which his outstanding loans balance was £3,033. The check showed 
no county court judgements, independent voluntary arrangements or bankruptcy. It did show 
two defaulted current accounts, one from three years before and another from around 21 
months before. But I dont think it would have been unreasonable for EFL to be more interested in Mr Os more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the 
loans were affordable. 
The credit check also showed three outstanding loan balances (all described as an 
unsecured loan). One loan had been taken out earlier in the month for £300. Another loan 
for £2,500 had been taken out in the previous month with monthly repayments of £229. I 
think it unlikely that this was a short term loan.  And another loan had been taken out nearly 
four months earlier with repayments of £85 per month. I think its likely that EFLs credit 
check might have suggested that Mr O had two existing short term loans taken out in the 
previous four months. But overall I dont think the extent of this other short term borrowing 
was such that it would have put EFL on notice that Mr O was having problems managing his 
money. 
I can see that weve received from Mr O two credit reports from different credit reference 
agencies and some brief extracts from a third credit reference agency. Mr O has also 
provided us with a list of eight short term loans which he said were outstanding at the time 
he took out EFLs loan. I can see that one of Mr Os credit reports only appears to refer to 
one other short term loan at the time of his application for EFLs loan and the other report 
appears to refer to up to four other short term loans at that time. Its not clear from the 
extracts from the third credit reference agency as to what other short term loans Mr O had 
when he applied for the EFL loan. 
But I'm aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information 
provided by EFLs credit check and Mr Os actual situation. Im also aware that not all 
payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, Mr O may 
have taken other payday or short term loans shortly before EFLs loan, which may not have 
been identified by EFLs credit checks. 
I note that the maximum monthly repayment amount for Loan 1 of £139.78 was relatively 
modest compared to the income that Mr O declared to EFL and I dont think the repayment 
amounts were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr O financial difficulty. 
Otherwise, given Mr Os repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at 
the time, and that the loan was his first with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for EFL to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show 
the loan was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr O provided before the loan or the 
information EFL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying. So, overall, I dont think EFL was wrong to give the loan 
to Mr O.
I note that Mr O also complained that EFL had agreed to remove a default it had applied to 
his credit file, but that it had since revoked its offer to do this. Ive read EFLs contact notes. I 
can see that EFL offered to remove the default if Mr O kept to the repayment arrangement it 
had agreed with him. I can see that as Mr O didnt keep to the arrangement, its offer to 
remove the default was cancelled. I dont think that EFL acted inappropriately here.
I note that Mr O has also complained about a member of EFLs staff insulting him during a 
phone call. Weve not received a recording of the call. So Im unable to comment on this 
aspect of Mr Os complaint.I note Mr Os strength of feeling about his complaint and I appreciate that my decision will be 
disappointing for him. Mr O has referred to his many other debts. But that wasnt something 
he told EFL about or something that EFL would have discovered from what I consider to be 
proportionate checks.
Id also remind EFL to deal with Mr O positively and sympathetically in working with him to 
come to a suitable repayment plan for any balance outstanding if he is still experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman