DRN-3963643
The complaint
Miss B has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op Bank) failed to provide 
her with reasonable adjustments as a disabled customer. As a result, she has been unable 
to access her bank accounts with the same ease and timeliness as non-disabled customers 
do. 
Background
Miss B has bank accounts with the Co-op Bank. She has said her disabilities, which impact 
her both physically and mentally, make it extremely difficult for her to access her bank 
accounts either in person or online. As a result, Miss B has said she relies on telephone 
banking, but this is often very time consuming as there can be long queues to get through to 
bank representatives and when she does they often fail to communicate with her in the 
correct way. This has led to Miss B becoming overwhelmed, exhausted, and upset when 
trying to complete routine and basic banking transactions. 
Miss B has asked that the Co-op Bank update its website to include an accessibility button 
which would allow her to immediately edit the format of the website, so the information 
appeared in the correct font, size, screen colour and layout, making it possible for her to 
access her account online. In addition, she has also mentioned that her local branch doesnt 
have a low counter for disabled customers so she doesnt go there in person as she cant 
speak to a cashier easily. There have also been issues with potential duplicate payments 
coming from Miss Bs account that she wants the Co-op Bank to investigate for her. Finally, 
Miss B has said that the bank failed to increase her daily ATM limit from £250 to £500 when 
asked to do so.
In response to her complaint the Co-op Bank has explained that while its website doesnt 
have an accessibility button it is compatible with multiple types of software that can be used 
by customers to alter how the information appears, including changing the font, size of text 
and layout of information. It has also said that there is a lower countertop in Miss Bs local 
branch and has been for over 10 years. It has confirmed Miss Bs daily limit has been 
increased to £500. It also explained that Miss B would need to contact the third-party service 
provider who was taking double payments from her account and query it with it in the first 
instance as the bank was unable to confirm why double payments were coming out and only 
the service provider would be able to trace this for Miss B. 
Unhappy with the Co-op Banks response Miss B brought her complaint to this service. One 
of our adjudicators has looked into it already. He said that while he understood why Miss B 
was frustrated and found telephone banking to be difficult, the Co-op Bank had provided 
sufficient support and alternative methods for Miss B to access her accounts. So, he didnt 
uphold her complaint. 
Miss B didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint and so its been passed to me for consideration.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicator and dont think the Co-op Bank needs 
to do any more in relation to Miss Bs complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Miss B.  
Miss B has explained that she is unable to access online banking with the Co-op Bank as its 
website doesnt have an accessibility button. Miss B believes that this means the Co-op 
Bank is failing to offer her reasonable adjustments, which she is legally entitled to, as a 
disabled customer. 
My understanding of this button is that it would allow Miss B to click on it and enter her 
display preferences, such as increasing font size and appearance, as well as removing 
subheadings and bullet points. I can understand why Miss B would like the Co-op Bank to 
have this made available to customers. It does sound like an extremely useful addition to 
websites for customers to use as they want. However, the absence of this feature doesnt 
automatically mean that the Co-op Bank has failed to provide Miss B with reasonable 
adjustments. It just means her preferred option is not available. 
When it replied to Miss Bs complaint the Co-op Bank asked Miss B to provide it with an 
example of a website that offers this feature. Ive also tried to find this feature on other 
banking websites to fully understand how it works. Unfortunately, Ive not been able to find 
any banking websites that use it and the websites I have found with it arent ones that hold 
as much confidential and security sensitive information as banking websites do. So, I dont 
think type of software is routinely used by banks on their websites, and I cant say the Co-op 
Bank is being unreasonable by not having it on its website. 
Miss B has also said that she doesnt have a local branch near to her and when she has 
travelled to the nearest available branch it doesnt have a low countertop and so shes not 
able to complete her transactions easily, or privately. The Co-op Bank has confirmed that the 
branch closest to Miss B does have a low countertop accessible to all customers, which is 
what I would expect. So, if Miss B does need to travel to the branch for any reason I can 
assure her she should be able to use this in order to carry out whatever transactions she 
needs. 
Miss B has also spoken about a call she had with a bank representative when she was trying 
to stop a potential duplicate payment from leaving her account. I agree this call became very 
strained and it was clear from listening to it that Miss B was struggling to take in the 
information she was being given, and the representative failed to understand why Miss B 
was becoming frustrated with them. That said, I do agree the information Miss B was being 
given was correct. While I can understand why Miss B wanted the bank to contact the third 
party on her behalf, it was unable to do so as the only person authorised to query the 
payments was Miss B herself. The bank has since confirmed that refunded payments have 
been credited to Miss Bs account and so Im pleased to see this issue appears to have been 
sorted out. 
In regard to Miss Bs ATM limit, the bank has confirmed this was actioned the day Miss B 
asked for it to be increased to £500. Ive not seen any record of it being requested prior to 
the date it changed and so I cant say the bank failed to act on Miss Bs request in a timely 
way.
Overall, while I dont doubt how tiring and frustrating Miss B finds communicating with the bank over the telephone, I dont think this means the Co-op Bank has failed to make 
reasonable adjustments for customers who have different communication needs. It has 
confirmed that its compliant with the relevant web consortium standard (WCAG) and it has 
offered, where possible, to send its written communications to Miss B in the format she 
requires.  
Therefore, taking all of the above into consideration, I cant say the bank has behaved 
unreasonably or unfairly in the options it has provided to Miss B. And because I cant say its 
been unreasonable. I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against The Co-Operative 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman