DRN-1826616
The complaint
Mr H complains that FCE Bank Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr H acquired new car costing £18,250 funded by a deposit of £1,000, part 
exchange of £5,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. Shortly after that Mr H 
says he discovered the car was unlocking itself and opening the windows. He supplied 
evidence to the dealer in the form of CCTV footage from three separate occasions. The 
dealer upgraded the software, but the problem recurred and it was taken back again. The 
dealer kept the car for several weeks and it couldnt replicate the fault. It sought advice from 
the manufacturer which sent an engineer who suggested the body control module (BCM) be 
changed.
It was suggested that the alarm on another vehicle owned by Mr H may be triggering the 
cars systems. This suggestion was reinforced as Mr H had a similar problem with a courtesy 
car. Mr H complained to FCE and it said that no fault had been found and it didnt consider 
rejection was appropriate.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She took the view that it wasnt clear that 
there was a fault with the car and that the most likely explanation was an external factor. She 
said that the dealer and the manufacturer had taken considerable steps to try and identify 
the cause of the problem. She also said there was no evidence of this being a common fault 
with this particular model. She also said that cars made by this manufacturer had the 
capacity to be opened fully with one touch, including the windows. She thought this might 
explain how an external source could be the cause of both the car and the windows opening.
Mr H didnt agree and said the dealer may not have noticed the car unlocking as it could 
happen at any time and the car would relock itself. He said he had provided clear evidence 
with the CCTV footage. Nor did he think it likely that his other vehicle alarm was the cause 
as it hadnt triggered the alarm of any of his previous cars. He also said he was concerned 
that his insurance would be invalid and his agreement with FCE required him to keep the car 
properly insured. He added that he had also raised concern about the key being faulty and 
the phone connection dropping off which may be connected problems.
Mr H said the car had unlocked itself on three occasions away from his property which 
undermined the suggestion that it was caused by the alarm on his other vehicle. More 
recently he informed us he had spoken to the company which provided the security system 
on his other vehicle and it had no record of its alarms causing a similar problem. He also 
suggested I read an academic paper on keyless alarms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCE is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I am satisfied that Mr Hs car has unlocked itself on a number of occasions and I dont 
believe that is disputed. What is less clear is why it unlocked itself and the windows opened. 
Nobody has been unable to explain why this has happened. 
Mr H believes that it must be a manufacturing fault, but the dealer and a mechanic from the 
manufacturer have not been able to find any fault. Various causes have been suggested, but 
nobody has been able to say with any certainty why the car opens randomly.
Mr H has suggested I read an academic paper on car security which I have done and am I 
not sure that this helps his case. I appreciate he thinks it puts in doubt the integrity of the 
motor industry, but I am only concerned with the facts of his particular complaint. I have to 
decide if there is an inherent fault with his car which was present at the point of sale. I have 
noted there is conflicting evidence.
I understand from the dealers notes that Mr H had the same problem with a courtesy car, 
which would suggest an external problem and not one with the car which is the subject of 
this complaint. If two cars suffer the same problem when with Mr H it suggests that 
something near his property is the cause of the alarm going off.
However, Mr H has told us that the alarm on his car has gone off away from his property. 
That would suggest that the cause is not external but is something within the car. The 
alternative explanation is that the alarm has been incorrectly set by Mr H, but I have seen 
nothing that would lead me to that conclusion.
I am aware that the dealer had the car for four weeks and monitored it on a daily basis and it 
could find no evidence of the alarm going off or of any explanation for the problem. I am 
aware that Mr H questions how diligent the dealer would have been in checking it and it 
could well have gone off, but have left no evidence. 
I have noted that it has been suggested that the global opening feature could be the cause, 
but Mr H says he think this has been removed from his car. He says he tried to disable the 
feature, but the system didnt allow him to do so even with the assistance of a friend who has some relevant expertise. He has expressed a concern that it has been deactivated to 
prevent the fault recurring.
In order for me to direct FCE to allow Mr H to reject the car I have to be satisfied that it was 
faulty at the point of sale. While I appreciate Mr Hs arguments, I dont believe I have enough 
evidence that would allow me to reach that conclusion and I regret that I cannot uphold his 
complaint. I am unable to make the leap from the car opening which clearly has happened to 
being able to say that the fault is inherent and was present at the point of sale. I would say 
that I have every sympathy with his predicament, but that of itself, doesnt allow me to 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman