DRN-4483828
The complaint
X complains about NewDay Ltd, trading as Pulse, as theyve closed Xs credit card account 
and X can no longer transfer the balance to another bank.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 4 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 27 November 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
X complains about NewDay Ltd, trading as Pulse, as theyve closed Xs credit card account 
and X can no longer transfer the balance to another bank.
What happened
NewDay were changing the credit card partnership from Company A to Pulse and
customers, who wanted to continue having a credit card account, were required to opt in to
Pulse.
NewDay sent out an opt in deadline, instructions (with questions and answers) in both an 
email and letter.
X didnt read the email or receive the letter. X explains that the reason was because X felt 
the not long before you switch subject line suggested no action was necessary.
X subsequently tried to transfer Xs balance to another bank and discovered that, because
X missed the opt in deadline, Xs account had been closed and X wasnt able to
complete any balance transfers.
X complained to NewDay as X was unhappy Xs account was closed, and X couldnt transfer 
Xs balance to another card with a lower interest rate.
NewDay were satisfied X had received their letter and that Xs account was correctly closed
within the terms and conditions of Xs credit agreement. They said they were unable to re-
open Xs account and explained that it wasnt technically possible to make a balance transfer
from a closed credit card.
X complained to our service seeking compensation for the inconvenience and distress
caused. Also, as X felt the email was unclear about the requirement to opt in and the
balance transfer consequences, X felt X had been treated unfairly and would like
NewDay to allow a balance transfer so X could consolidate and pay off Xs debt.
Our investigator didnt think NewDay had treated X fairly. To put things right they said
NewDay should honour the terms of the balance transfer promotion X had received from
another bank and supress any interest being applied to Xs balance for 31 months. Also, that
NewDay should refund any interest that it has already applied.
However, NewDay disagree so this complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
My role is to consider the submissions presented and, where I think a business hasnt acted
fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, to decide what should be done to put right
any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. In cases where
information is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I must reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in
light of the available information.
I looked closely at the file and NewDays communications. I could see that X didnt realise
there was a requirement for X to opt in and thought X would automatically receive the
new credit card with Pulse. Also, that NewDay had tried to implement a seamless transition
and thought they had clearly communicated the necessary actions to X.
Regarding the email NewDay sent to X. It is called a reminder and this and Xs
understanding that X would be automatically opted in and didnt need to take any action,
suggests the switch was not unfamiliar. So, I think this, together with the fact that X was
actively using Xs credit card account and had used a large amount of Xs available credit,
shouldve at least precipitated a review of the email. Had X done so, X would have noticed
the first paragraph which was highlighted in red and said, You will need to opt in to make
the switch, if you haven't already. And this is likely to have prompted X to take the opt in
transition action which wouldve prevented Xs account being closed.
I think NewDay couldve done more, in the email header, to emphasise the importance of the
message. However, although I think this, customers have a responsibility to read
communications, especially if theyve requested them electronically.
To reinforce their communication, NewDay followed the email up with a letter. The letter was
a more formal communication and a final call for action giving sufficient time before the opt
in deadline.
Although X says X didnt receive NewDays letter, Im satisfied NewDay communicated the
change to Xs in a responsible way. I say this because they made a copy of this letter
available to X on their e-services. Also, file notes show Xs preference was to receive
information electronically and Xs account, which was set up to receive electronic
statements, was accessed online multiple times between 9 August 2022 and 6 November
2022. So, I think it was reasonable of NewDay to consider that they had communicated
necessary actions to X and made X aware that Xs account would be closed if X didnt
take any action.
X doesnt feel X has been treated fairly here because the implications of a closed account
were unclear. So, I closely examined NewDays email and letter together with their attached
questions and answers.I considered and understood NewDays points, including that it is both inferred and industry
practice that no transactions, including balance transfers, can be completed on a closed
account.
I found NewDay to be unclear on whether a customer with a closed account could undertake
a balance transfer. Although a closed account suggests transactions can no longer be
completed, I couldnt see that all customers would realise this. And, although I think
NewDays communications were detailed, I think they shouldve included a clear explanation
that a closed account would mean an inability to make a balance transfer.
However, although I understand why X feels X hasnt been treated fairly, the fact is X
didnt read NewDays communications. So, even though I think NewDay shouldve been
clearer about the implications of a closed account, including the inability to make a balance
transfer, the same outcome wouldve still occurred even if they had modified and improved
their communication.
I found NewDays messaging to be clear. They explained in a timely manner that accounts
would be closed if customers didnt opt in and communicated a deadline date. They also
highlighted a telephone number and encouraged customers to contact them if they had any
questions. So, any customer contemplating a balance transfer in the future couldve made
an enquiry about whether this would be possible on an account that would no longer be
open.
Having considered all the available information here, I think X shouldve read NewDays
communications and although I think NewDays communication shouldve been clearer Im
not upholding this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 27 November
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both X and NewDay the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
I only received a response from X. X disagreed with my provisional decision and Xs 
submission included:
A belief that NewDay didnt act in an equitable way when managing the transfer. X 
says NewDay applied different treatment to their customer base in so far as both 
opt in and opt out scenarios for continuing with the services were arbitrarily 
allocated to all accounts. So, there were unequal consequences for inaction for the 
customer base.
Disagreement with my following comment which X considered to be a slight against my character and my capabilities:
However, although I understand why X feels X hasnt been treated fairly, the fact is X 
didnt read NewDays communications. So, even though I think NewDay shouldve 
been clearer about the implications of a closed account, including the inability to 
make a balance transfer, the same outcome wouldve still occurred even if they had 
modified and improved their communication.
This is because X believes an assumption was made that no matter how NewDay 
communicated, I would still not have read the email, and the same financial 
consequences would have followed. X added For opt in customers, a simple 
industry standard heading for emails  [Action required] - would have clearly 
indicated that the email contained information regarding action required by 
customers.
Disagreement that the email was a reminder as the heading was X, not long before 
you switch to Pulse. X said There is no reminder there or a call to action. All it is 
communication is that soon I will be a customer with Pulse instead of NewDay. 
Pointed out The average person receives over 120 emails per day, it is not 
unreasonable to expect a business to clearly label actionable emails as to stand out, 
instead of using a subject line that implies no action is required. Additionally, account 
closure due to inaction did not come until the end of the email. Scanning the first few 
paragraphs would not lead to everyone to clearly understand that if you do not opt in 
 then your account is closed.
Regarding my comment that I considered and understood NewDays points, 
including that it is both inferred and industry practice that no transactions, including 
balance transfers, can be completed on a closed account, X points out that 
knowledge of such industry standards is not universal and is most visible to people 
and institutions within that industry. Therefore, assuming that the knowledge is 
universal results in treating the customers inequitably by not being transparent about 
the industry standard practice. Putting a heavier burden of responsibility on the 
customer to investigate those industry standards violates the principles of equality, 
diversity, and inclusion in practice, which all businesses are required to follow in their 
communication.
Explained my provisional decision disproportionately impacts me by locking me into 
an account and high interest without ability to consolidate debt and pay it off and 
will affect me more than the business in both mental, physical, and financial sense. 
Especially, if you consider that others customers who did not have to act because of 
being in the opt out scheme and not reading their emails are not facing the same 
consequences.
Explained that the financial impact of the provisional decision was neither in Xs or 
NewDays best interest.
I considered all of Xs submission and reviewed the file again. 
I dont have full information on NewDays transition approach and its possible some 
customer didnt have to opt in. However, that would be a commercial decision for NewDay 
and, in this particular case, Im satisfied that X wasnt singled out or treated in isolation here, 
as NewDay sent the same communications to a large number of Company A card holders 
requiring them to opt in. And my role is to consider if, when doing so, they treated X fairly and reasonably. I should also point we arent the regulator of the financial services industry 
which looks at business policy. 
In Xs submission, X focusses on NewDays email, and I recognise the word reminder was 
at the start of the email rather than in the header. However, NewDay also sent X a letter and 
as Xs preference was to receive information electronically and Xs account was set up to 
view a letter electronically, they also made the letter available through this method. In 
addition, Ive seen evidence that Xs account was accessed online in the period the letter 
was sent out. 
So, although I appreciate X didnt open the email or electronic letter, my comments that the 
same outcome wouldve still occurred if NewDays communications content had been better, 
were in the context of NewDay communications not being viewed despite them sending it to 
X by several different methods some of which I think X would more likely than not have 
received. 
Ive seen the email NewDay sent to X and it was a reminder. Although I acknowledge Xs 
points about email volumes and the header not highlighting a call for action, due to the email 
being a reminder and X thinking X would automatically be opted in, I dont think the switch 
was unfamiliar. So, as X was also actively using NewDays credit card account I think X 
shouldve looked out for and viewed updates by all communication channels. 
I appreciate Xs points about account closure and agree that NewDay shouldve been clearer 
on the implications. However, although I think this, closure suggests a completion, or an 
ending, so I can understand the point NewDay make that it infers that the customer could 
not complete any further transactions. Also, NewDays communications including frequently 
asked questions and they highlighted an enquiry line for customers requiring further 
information on account closure. 
I recognise and am sympathetic to Xs point about feeling locked into NewDays interest rate. 
Although it is tentative suggestion, I think X should consider the following from NewDay or 
explore other similar options: 
We advised X that an alternative could be to see if Y (the other bank) would provide the 
same promotional offer if the customer were to action a money transfer and then use the 
funds to clear the balance. NewDay has no influence on Ys ability to complete the balance 
transfer nor the agreeing to any alternatives.
I am also sympathetic to Xs financial situation and the current and future impact on X. Whilst 
I understand the point X makes, that my provisional decision is not a palatable option for 
any interested party, I must point out that my role here is to be impartial and objective when 
considering a dispute that has been referred to our service.
I appreciate X will be disappointed but having considered all the above my final decision is to 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman