DRN-3415535
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy at the time taken by Barclays Bank UK Plc to remove him from a joint 
mortgage account. He is asking the bank to compensate him for the trouble and 
inconvenience this has caused him.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 10 February 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr H being identified.
Briefly, Mr H and his former wife (Mrs H) had a mortgage with Barclays on their former 
matrimonial home. As part of their divorce settlement it was agreed between them that this 
property would be transferred into Mrs Hs sole name and that Mr H would be removed from 
the mortgage. An application was made to remove Mr H in September 2020, but it wasnt 
until June 2021 when the mortgage account was finally redeemed.
Mr H was unhappy about the length of time this took, and about Barclays customer service. 
He raised a complaint with Barclays. The bank acknowledged that its customer service could 
have been better, and offered Mr H £200 compensation for the length of time it had taken, 
and for not keeping him up-to-date or returning calls.
Barclays initially rejected the complaint, but after Mr H said he was still dissatisfied with 
Barclays service, the bank looked at the complaint again. It acknowledged Mr H had been 
caused some inconvenience, and offered him compensation of £200.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Barclays was required to do 
anything further. He thought the £200 offered was fair and reasonable compensation.
Mr H disagreed. He said his ex-wife had been paid £300 by the bank, so he didnt 
understand why he had only been offered £200. Mr H said he expected to be paid double 
the amount his ex-wife had received.
Mr H asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He has reiterated all the 
points hes previously made about his disappointment with Barclays service. Mr H was also 
unhappy that in June 2021 Barclays sent a final response letter to the mortgaged property, 
rather than his parents property into which he had moved in November 2020. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, the events giving rise to the complaint arent in dispute. Barclays has 
accepted its service could have been better, and so the only issue I need to decide is what 
compensation should be paid for this. I can see Mr H found the process of dealing with 
Barclays frustrating and I fully understand how difficult this was, particularly given the 
underlying reason for the application to remove him from the mortgage.
Its important to note that I cant comment on anything relating to Mrs H or her dealings with 
Barclays; shes not a party to this complaint. However, in general terms, where a bank is 
being asked to remove one party from a joint mortgage, it is entitled to assess affordability 
and the impact on this if one of the borrowers is removed. 
In this case, I understand Mrs H was applying for a new mortgage, rather than keeping the 
existing mortgage product. In that case, an affordability assessment would be required. 
Because the application was made by Mrs H, Im not entitled to see any information about 
this, or the reasons why the application took so long. 
However, I can see that there were several occasions when Barclays promised to contact 
Mr H, but didnt, and he wasnt always kept up-to-date about what was happening. I 
appreciate this may well have been because the application was being made by Mrs H, not 
Mr H, and so the bank couldnt discuss the specifics with him. But calls werent returned 
when promised, and after a staff member promised to take ownership of the matter, this still 
didnt result in Mr H being contacted. 
I am glad to see Barclays has agreed it should have done better. I think the £200 
compensation offered for the banks poor customer service is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the inconvenience caused to Mr H. 
Ive noted what Mr H has said about the letter which offered the compensation being sent to 
an incorrect address. However, there is nothing on Barclays notes to show Mr H contacted 
the bank in November 2020 to change his address on Barclays system. The only address 
the bank had recorded on the account was the secured property. In the circumstances, 
because Mr H hadnt formally changed his address with Barclays, the bank did nothing 
wrong in writing to him at the address recorded on its system.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied the £200 compensation 
offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to Mr H to decide if he wants to 
accept this in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman