DRN-2966181
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt allow him to take a new 
interest rate on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr F and his late father took out a mortgage to buy a property  the property was in the 
name of Mr F and both his parents, but only Mr F and his father were named on the 
mortgage.
In 2010, Mr F experienced some difficulties which led to his being declared bankrupt. The 
official receiver placed a charge over the property. In 2011, Mr Fs father passed away. 
In 2016, Mr F applied to Halifax for a new interest rate and to come off the higher standard 
variable rate (SVR). At the same time, he says he told Halifax that his father had passed 
away. 
Mr F says that Halifax told him that it wouldnt be able to offer him a rate unless he switched 
the mortgage from interest only to repayment  and that in any case his bankruptcy might 
cause difficulties. Mr F says that this put him off pursuing things any further at this time.
In 2018, Mr F again asked Halifax for a new rate, this time through a broker. He said Halifax 
told him that there was a problem giving him a rate, but that once changes were made he 
would be able to proceed. He says Halifax wrote to him saying it would confirm in writing 
when things were resolved. Mr F says he never received anything from Halifax confirming he 
could now go ahead.
In 2020, Mr F asked again for a rate, and again his application couldnt go through. This time 
he says Halifax told him that the problem was because of the official receivers charge over 
the property. Mr F says that the official receiver had removed its charge some years ago 
when his bankruptcy was resolved. Halifax therefore moved Mr Fs mortgage to a new rate.
Mr F complained. He said that it turned out that the problem with giving him a rate was 
related to the bankruptcy and the official receivers charge. If Halifax had told him that was 
the issue in either 2016 or 2018, he could have confirmed that the bankruptcy had been 
resolved, there was no longer a charge over his property, and Halifax would have been able 
to give him a rate. He said he had spent the years between 2016 and 2018 paying the higher 
SVR unnecessarily.
Halifax said that Mr F wasnt eligible for a new rate because of his bankruptcy. But it says it 
told him in 2018 that if he could provide evidence he had been discharged, it would remove 
the bankruptcy marker from its systems. It says Mr F went to a branch with proof of the 
discharge, as it asked him to do, so it removed the bankruptcy marker. It tried to call Mr F to 
tell him that he could now apply for a new rate, but Mr F didnt return its calls. It said there 
was nothing stopping Mr F applying for a rate thereafter but he didnt do so until 2020. It said 
he had been told that once he had taken the discharge letter into a branch he would be able 
to apply, but he hadnt followed that up between 2018 and 2020. So Halifax wasnt 
responsible for him not being given a rate before 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he couldnt hold 
Halifax responsible for Mr F not getting a rate before 2020  when he hadnt followed up the 
contact in 2018. Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says that he was put off progressing an application in 2016 when he was told that his 
bankruptcy might be a problem. 
When he enquired again in 2018, the bankruptcy was indeed a problem. When a customer is 
bankrupt, Halifax puts a note on the mortgage account  which, among other things, stops a 
new interest rate being added to the account. This is to avoid the possibility of an early 
repayment charge if the property needs to be sold as part of the bankruptcy.
But by 2018, Mr F had been discharged for some time, and so this was no longer an issue. 
Before a rate application could be processed, though, the marker needed to be removed 
from Halifaxs systems  which needed evidence of the discharge.
On 25 October 2018, Mr F applied for a new interest rate. Halifax explained that he would 
need to go to a branch with evidence of his discharge from the bankruptcy before it could 
offer a rate. Mr F did this on 29 October 2018. A follow up appointment to discuss his 
application was arranged for 2 November. Ive listened to this call, and all this was clearly 
explained to Mr F. Ive also listened to earlier calls where Mr F was trying to contact the right 
department.
Halifax wrote to Mr F on 30 October 2018. The letter is not well written and not clear as to 
what the next steps are. But it concludes Once this is received we will confirm this in writing 
to you.
Mr F says he understood this to mean that he couldnt progress his application for a new rate 
until Halifax had confirmed in writing that he could. As he didnt receive anything further in 
writing, he felt he couldnt continue the application and waited to be contacted. Having heard 
nothing for two years, he tried again in 2020.
Halifax says it tried to call Mr F on 2 November 2018, at the time of the agreed appointment, 
and when he didnt respond it left a message.
Im satisfied that this call happened. Its recorded in Halifaxs contact notes, and follow up 
action was also recorded on Halifaxs systems to note that if Mr F did call in, he should be 
referred to the mortgage team for a review of his interest rate. I dont think its likely this is a 
recent fabrication; I think its a contemporaneous record of action Halifax took at the time. 
Although I havent been given a copy of the recording of this message, I dont think that 
means it didnt happen. 
Mr F says he didnt receive this message. It may be the case that Mr F didnt receive the 
voicemail message  though Halifax isnt to blame for a problem with Mr Fs phone provider, 
if that was the issue. Or it may be that he did, but the content of it didnt make it clear that it 
was now up to him to contact Halifax to progress his application. But its also possible that it 
did make that clear  and with the passage of time Mr F doesnt recall that.  But whichever of those is correct, the fact is that Mr F didnt get back in touch with Halifax. 
And while Ive noted what hes said about the 30 October letter, and that it led him to believe 
he needed to wait for confirmation in writing, I dont think thats enough to say that Halifax is 
to blame for him not getting a new rate until 2020.
It was clear from the earlier conversation that the problem was the bankruptcy marker on 
Halifaxs systems, and that Mr F needed to provide proof of discharge to a branch. Hed 
done that, which should have resolved the problem. On the earlier call, the adviser had 
agreed that he would call Mr F back the following week, so Mr F was expecting his call. 
If Mr F did receive the message, Id have expected him to follow it up by returning the call. 
And if he didnt, Id have expected him to have got back in touch with Halifax because the 
25 October call had led him to expect that he would be getting another call which didnt 
happen.
Even if it was reasonable, having received the letter, for Mr F to no longer expect a call as 
agreed but instead wait for confirmation in writing, Mr F took no action for over two years to 
follow things up when he didnt receive that written confirmation. He knew that he had 
provided Halifax with the evidence it needed; he was expecting it to contact him to confirm 
all was OK; it didnt contact him; and he took no action to find out why or whether the 
problem had been resolved and he could now get a rate.
Mr F has received a subject access request from Halifax, and points to a note on 
6 and 7 December 2018. There is an entry in Halifaxs internal notes from that time, but its 
an internal review confirming the removal of the bankruptcy marker and updating Halifaxs 
systems to note that the official receiver no longer has an interest in the property. Its not 
evidence of contact between Halifax and Mr F, such as Mr F calling to chase things up. 
Halifax has also provided recordings of all the later calls it has been able to trace on its 
system. There are only two calls between Halifax and Mr F between 25 October 2018 and 
2020  but neither are related to the mortgage. One is a call about Mr Fs buildings and 
contents insurance (also provided by Halifax) for a different property. The other is about a 
different account in his wifes name.
The general position is that a lender is not required to pro-actively contact its borrowers and 
invite them to apply for a rate; if a borrower wants a new rate, its up to them to make an 
application  and to follow that through.
Halifaxs letter was unclear and confusing. I dont understand what it was trying to say, and I 
can see why Mr F may have expecting confirmation in writing. But its also the case that he 
was told he would be called back in early November  and he either didnt return the 
message when that happened, or didnt chase Halifax up if he didnt get the message. 
Whether he was waiting for a call back, or for confirmation in writing, I think it would have 
been reasonable for Mr F to have got back in touch with Halifax to confirm whether he could 
now make an application for a new rate. He didnt do that for over two years, and therefore I 
dont think I can fairly say that Halifax is responsible for him not getting a new rate until late 
2020. 
And there doesnt seem to be any reason Mr F couldnt have contacted Halifax about the 
mortgage, since he did so about other matters  the call about his wifes account was late in 
November 2018, not long after the discussion about this mortgage. 
Once Mr F did get back in touch about the mortgage, his application was progressed and a 
new rate was put in place from 2020. I think thats fair in all the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman