DRN-2878782
The complaint
Mr M complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has unfairly turned down his
claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was burgled in October 2020. His wifes car was stolen and so, it seems, were the
spare keys to Mr Ms car.
Mr Ms car wasnt insured at the time of the burglary (and he says it was in the garage for
repairs). But the morning after the burglary Mr M insured his car with AA.
Mr M says he didnt know the spare keys to his car were missing until later that day, when
the police asked about them. He says the police advised him to park his car away from his
home and get the car keys deactivated.
Mr M says he parked his car away from his home when he got it back from the garage and
made an appointment with the manufacturer to get the keys deactivated. But the day after he
got it back, Mr Ms car was stolen.
AA declined Mr Ms theft claim. When Mr M complained about this, AA said Mr M hadnt
taken reasonable steps to safeguard his car. So Mr M brought his complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. He thought AA was entitled
to take the view Mr M hadnt taken reasonable steps to secure his car.
Mr M disagreed and so his complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 11 
May 2021, I explained why  like our investigator  I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. But my reasons for doing so were different from those our investigator gave and 
so I wanted both Mr M and AA to have the chance to give me their comments on them.
Mr M hasnt responded to my provisional decision and AA has said it has nothing to add. So 
Mr Ms complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. In my provisional decision, I 
explained why I didnt think AA had treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. I gave my 
reasons as follows:
AA has turned down Mr Ms claim saying he hasnt complied with a term in his policy saying
he must take all reasonable steps to protect his car from any loss or damage.
Our approach to cases like this is that AA needs to show Mr M acted recklessly for it to be
fair and reasonable to turn down his claim for this reason. This is also in line with the leading
case in this area, the Court of Appeals decision in Sofi v Prudential Assurance. There are
two parts to the test for acting recklessly:
First, AA must show Mr M recognised there was a risk his car might be stolen.
Second, AA must show, having recognised the risk, Mr M either took no action to
prevent his car being stolen or took actions he knew were inadequate.
AA says Mr M insured his car first thing in the morning following the burglary because he
knew it was at risk of being stolen. Mr M says he insured the car then because he needed to
be able to use it (his wifes car having been stolen). He says he hadnt noticed the spare
keys were missing at the time he insured his car.
If Mr M hadnt been aware his car was at risk of being stolen when he insured it, the police
highlighted that risk later in the day  Mr M says they advised him to park the car away from
his home and get his car keys deactivated. So I think Mr M knew there was a risk his car
could be stolen. That means I think the first part of the test Ive referred to has been
satisfied.
So next I need to look at the steps Mr M took to prevent his car being stolen.
AA says that, if Mr M had had cover with it at the time of the burglary, it wouldve arranged
for his car to be taken to safe storage while it got the locks changed and new keys. It says to
protect his car, Mr M couldve bought a steering wheel lock or a wheel clamp or he couldve
blocked the car in. AA says Mr M could also have parked further away from home than he
did (he parked in a nearby street, which AA says was around 360 feet from his home). And,
finally, AA says Mr M couldve got the keys deactivated sooner than his planned
appointment with the car manufacturer (which was almost two weeks after the burglary).
Mr M says that, following the burglary, his immediate thoughts were to deal with his home
and make sure his family was safe. Mr M says it wasnt practical to park a long way from his
home, because his young family needed to get to and from the car. He says he couldnt
follow the police advice to park at a friend or family members home, because no-one was
nearby and, again, he needed access to the car. He says he had no-one to block the car in
with  and putting it into storage wasnt an option because he needed to use it. And Mr M
says he made an appointment with the manufacturer to get the keys deactivated as soon as
he could (following the advice the police gave him) but didnt realise the appointment hed
made was for nearly two weeks later (he thought it was for just under a week later).
Mr M says he took reasonable steps to protect his car by parking in a nearby road and
making an appointment to get the keys deactivated as soon as he could.
I understand Mr M was facing a stressful situation following the burglary. And its clear to me
Mr M took some steps to protect his car from being stolen, as Ive described. But I dont think
they were adequate. I think Mr Ms main concern in relation to the car was his and his
familys convenience. While I can understand this, it means I think Mr M made the conscious
decision to prioritise his familys practical needs above the need to take adequate steps to
protect the car from theft.
It seems the car theft took place almost as soon as Mr M says he got the car back from the
garage. It wasnt parked very far from his home and the keys hadnt been deactivated. It
wouldve been quite easy for thieves to walk along nearby roads and use the spare keys to
find Mr Ms car. And although Mr M rightly points out we dont know for sure the car was
stolen by the burglars, on the facts here, I think its a fair and reasonable assumption.Theres no doubt that following the polices specific advice about parking at a family or
friends home  or taking some of the additional steps AA has referred to  wouldve taken
time and been inconvenient for Mr M at what was already a difficult time. But Mr M had a
duty to take adequate steps to protect his car from theft. And on the facts in this case, I think
Mr M knew he needed to do more than he did to carry out that duty. That means I think the
second part of the test Ive referred to has been satisfied.
In conclusion, based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr M knew his car was at risk of theft
and took inadequate steps to prevent it from being stolen. For these reasons, I dont think
AA acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning down his claim.
As Ive said, neither Mr M nor AA has given me any comments on my provisional decision. 
And, having looked at everything again, I dont see any reason to change any of the 
provisional findings I set out in it and so these now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman