DRN-3818822
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handling of a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Barclays, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
The business could also raise a chargeback claim but they didnt have to do that as 
chargeback is a voluntary scheme. The redress provided through chargeback would have 
been likely to be the same as under section 75, so Ill focus here on whether Barclays 
decision to reject Mr Ss section 75 claim was a fair and reasonable one.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Mr S bought music festival tickets and hotel accommodation but when the festival was 
postponed Barclays didnt uphold his section 75 claim as they said thered been no breach of 
the merchants terms and conditions. They said the terms allowed the merchant to make 
changes to the event, such as location, date, and line up and that they didnt need to provide 
a refund.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation and section 62 sets out 
circumstances when an unfair term will not be binding on a consumer.
Terms may be deemed unfair if they are contrary to the requirement of good faith and/or 
they cause a significant imbalance between the rights of the trader and the consumer.
Only a court can decide if the terms are unfair, but I take the relevant legislation into account 
when deciding if Barclays decision to reject Mr Ss section 75 claim was fair and reasonable.
The event that is now available to Mr S is significantly different to the one he paid for. It is in 
a location thats about 100 miles away from the original venue and its taking place a year 
after it was originally scheduled. I think the terms Barclays rely on to justify rejection of the 
claim do cause a significant imbalance between Mr Ss rights and those of the trader and 
they cant reasonably be seen as fair in this case.
In those circumstances I think there has been a breach of contract as Mr S hasnt received 
the product he paid for.  
Putting things right
Barclays should refund the money Mr S paid and for his ticket/accommodation package.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Barclays to refund the 
money Mr S paid for his tickets.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman