DRN-4516303
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made on her travel
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M had the benefit of a single trip travel insurance policy (underwritten by Great Lakes)
(the policy) for a holiday she shed booked for 21 July 2022. The holiday was booked on 26
June 2022 and the policy was taken out on 2 July 2022. Miss M was due to travel to a
country Ill refer to as S.
The Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but
essential travel to S on 5 July 2022. Subsequently, Miss M cancelled her holiday. The FCDO
guidance remained in place at the time the holiday was cancelled - and when Miss M was
due to travel.
Miss M made a claim on the policy for the cost of the holiday which she was unable to
recover from third parties.
Great Lakes declined the claim because the reason which led to the holiday being cancelled
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section
of the policy listed specific reasons for which Great Lakes would provide cover, and the
circumstances surrounding Miss Ms claim didnt fall within those.
Miss M didnt think that was fair, so complained to The Financial Ombudsman Service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not listed in
the cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting
cover if shed travelled against the advice of the FCDO. So, our investigator didnt think it
was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim for the reason it did.
In the circumstances of this particular case, our investigator concluded that it would be fair
and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section
of the policy. And our investigator recommended Great Lakes assess the claim under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Great Lakes didnt agree. Amongst the points it included in its response to our investigators
view, it said the specific insured perils for which a claim may be considered are clearly set
out in the policy terms. As the circumstance giving rise to the claim made by Miss M fell
outside of those insured perils, it was unable to consider the claim. This complaint was
passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision earlier in December 2023 explaining in a bit more detail why 
I was also intending to uphold the complaint. Both Great Lakes and Miss M accepted my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. It
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Information Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID says at the top of page 1 that:
This Document is only intended to provide a summary of the main coverage and
exclusions and is not personalised to your specific needs in any way. Complete pre-
contractual and contractual information for the product is provided in your policy
documentation.
Under the heading What is insured? on page 1 of the IPID, it says:
Cancellation  up to £2,000
Under the heading Where am I covered on page 2 of the IPID, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development (FCDO) has advised against all travel or all but
essential travel
The policy terms and conditions
Page 26 of the policy terms and conditions sets out the policy cancellation terms. Subject to
the remaining terms of the policy, cover is provided (up to the financial limits of that that
section) following necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You,
Your Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom You had
arranged to stay; or
2. Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk
of the Courts Office; or
3. You or Your travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police,
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and Your or their authorised leave being
Cancelled due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of
Your trip; or
4. You or Your travelling companion being instructed to stay at Home (within 7 days
of Your departure date) by a relevant authority due to severe damage to Your or
their Home or place of business in the United Kingdom caused by serious fire,
explosion, storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or
5. Your involuntary redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse,
civil partner or cohabiting partner, notified after the purchase of this Policy or after the
trip was booked, whichever is later.
Pages 86 to 89 of the policy set out the general exclusions which apply to all sections of the
policy. It says (at section D.1.b. on page 86). that the policy doesnt pay for any loss,
damage, cost or expense directly or indirectly caused by:the act of an Insured Person voluntarily entering an area known at the time to be
subject to War and Civil Unrest or against the advice of the Foreign, Commonwealth
& Development Office (FCDO)
Ill refer to this as the FCDO exclusion.
Was it unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim?
I think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy in this particular case because:
Im satisfied that the main reason for the holiday being cancelled was the FCDO
advice which came into effect on 5 July 2022. That was after the policy was taken out
and the holiday booked, and shortly before Miss M was due to travel.
I accept that cancellation due to FCDO advising against all but essential travel to the
intended holiday destination isnt something thats listed as an insured peril under the
cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy, as set out above.
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the
reasons Ill go on to explain.
Even if Miss M was able to  and did - travel abroad when planned, she wouldnt
have been following FCDO advice. And because of the FCDO exclusion she wouldnt
have been covered by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and
conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO guidance - after the holiday had been
booked and policy had been issued - which led to the cancellation of a holiday is
something also not covered under the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently
clear to Miss M in this case.
The IPID is designed to make sure customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The FCDO exclusion is set out in the IPID
and IPID but cancellation claims due to FCDO advice against all but essential travel
isnt included in the What is not insured section of the IPID.
Miss M wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions to understand
that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was
brought to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. Im satisfied that Miss M
wouldve needed to go further into the detail of the policy wording to establish
whether she was able to claim if her holiday was cancelled because of changes to
FCDO advice after shed bought the policy. And even when she reached page 26 of
the policys terms and conditions - which sets out the available cover if her trip is
cancelled  a claim arising from a change in FCDO advice isnt specifically listed as
an exclusion.
The section of the policy explaining what will be covered if Miss M was unable to
travel, on page 26, is in plain English. But the FCDO exclusion isnt presented in the
same place or specifically mentioned in the cancellation exclusions  although the
general exclusions are referred to. But the general exclusions are later in the policy
document at pages 86 to 89. And Miss M, as a consumer, would have needed to
cross refer these sections of the policy document to understand how these terms all
interrelated to one another, and to understand the effect of the FCDO exclusion.I dont think it would be obvious to a reasonable consumer that there would be no
cover under the policy if FCDO advice changed in respect of their destination after
theyd bought the policy. And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might
not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the
cancellation section of cover and the FCDO exclusion under the other sections of the
policy are presented separately means their combined effect isnt clear in this case.
Overall, Im satisfied that it wasnt made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable
policyholder that theyd have no cover under the policy if they travelled against FCDO
advice but that there would also be no cover in place if their travel plans were
cancelled on the basis of FCDO advice changing in between buying the policy and
their intended departure date, as is what happened here.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Great Lakes
and Miss M, shifting the rights and obligations under the policy significantly in Great
Lakes favour. I think its likely Miss M wouldve bought another travel insurance
policy if shed realised that there was no cover under this policy if the FCDO
guidance changed after it was bought. Im satisfied that there were other travel
insurances policies available at the time which wouldve covered such a situation.
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions 
of a policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible 
exclusion. Ive also considered that its common for the cancellation section of travel 
insurance policies to list the specific insured perils that are covered. However, the 
issue Im considering in this case is whether the specific exclusion from cover of 
cancellation claims arising from a change in FCDO travel advice was clearly sign-
posted to Miss M in this particular case based on the policy documentation relevant 
to the specific circumstances of Miss Ms claim. And, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think it was.
Prohibitive regulations
Ive also taken on board what Great Lakes says about the cancellation section of the policy
containing a specific exclusion (at page 27), not covering cancellation claims for:
Any claim arising as a result of prohibitive regulations by the Government of any
country, or delay or amendment of the booked trip due to Government action.
The FCDO advice was due to S being under a severe economic crisis at the time which led
to shortage of basic necessities like medicine, cooking gas, fuel, electricity and food. This
had led to protest and violent unrest. Further demonstrations, roadblocks and violent unrest
could occur at short notice.
The Government of S declared a state of emergency in mid-July 2022. Miss M said on her
claim form to Great Lakes that she verbally cancelled the holiday on 9 July 2022, and in
writing on 19 July 2022. Im persuaded, on a balance of probabilities, that she did cancel the
holiday before the state of emergency was declared by Ss Government as Ive also seen a
cancellation invoice from before date issued by an accommodation provider for part of the
holiday, so I think that supports what she says in her claim form.
So, Im satisfied that the Government of S hadnt issued any prohibitive regulations at the
time of cancellation. And Im satisfied that neither had the UK Government. Although, the
FCDO had issued advice against all but essential travel to S  and I think this was the
reason for Miss Ms holiday being cancelled  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to
conclude that this was a regulation (prohibitive or otherwise) or a result of Government
action.Distress and inconvenience
Miss M submitted her insurance claim in July 2022. And it took Great Lakes several months
to assess her claim. I think thats too long in the circumstances here. During this time, Great
Lakes internal contact notes reflect that Miss M called on at least three occasions asking for
an update and that she was told that she should hear shortly. But she didnt.
Im satisfied this wouldve been frustrating for Miss M and she was put to the unnecessary
trouble of having to contact Great Lakes on multiple occasion to find out what was going on
with her claim.
It doesnt look like her claim was internally escalated for advice about the reason Great
Lakes ultimately gave to decline the claim until mid-October 2022. Im satisfied thats too
long and there doesnt seem to be any fair reason why it shouldve taken until then for the
matter to be escalated. I propose that Great Lakes pay £100 compensation to Miss M to
reflect the distress and inconvenience she experienced because of Great Lakes not handling
her claim promptly.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date of the Financial Ombudsman Service notifies Great Lakes that
Miss M accepts this final decision, I direct Great Lakes to:
assess the claim as if it is covered as an insured peril under the cancellation section
the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including
(but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess.
pay Miss M £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint to the extent set out above. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman