DRN-2282870
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr R have complained about the sale of a decreasing term assurance policy (the 
policy) by Sesame Limited (Sesame). Theyre also unhappy the adviser continued to benefit 
financially from the sale because of his ongoing commission payments. They consider this 
incentivised him to mis-sell the policy. 
What happened
Mrs N and Mr R met with an adviser from Sesame, who Ill call Mr F, in October 2005 to 
arrange a mortgage. Following Mr Fs advice, Mrs N and Mr R took out the policy, which 
included critical illness benefit. The policy initially provided £180,000 of cover, which 
decreased over the 25-year term in line with their outstanding mortgage.
In 2019 Mrs N and Mr R complained about the sale of the policy. They said they were misled 
by Mr F to believe they needed the policy in order to secure a mortgage. They said they 
didnt need the policy as they each had enough disposable income to cover the mortgage 
repayments had one of them been unable to work. They were also shocked to discover they 
could now take out a policy for the remaining cover at a much-reduced cost to what they 
were paying. They considered Mr F was financially incentivised to mis-sell the policy as he 
continued to receive commission payments throughout the term of the policy. They asked 
that their premiums be returned to them. 
Sesame didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said the sales documentation clearly 
showed the policy was optional. It also maintained that the policy was a suitable 
recommendation in the circumstances as Mrs N and Mr R had no other protection in place 
for their mortgage. It said that Mrs N and Mr R were also provided with documentation at the 
outset that set out the advisers commission, which was in line with the regulators 
guidelines.   
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. He 
didnt think the evidence supported that Mrs N and Mr R had been told they must take out 
the cover. He also wasnt persuaded that the policy was unaffordable based on Mrs N and 
Mr Rs recorded incomes at the time. 
Mrs N and Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman 
to consider the complaint. They didnt feel the investigator had considered the financial 
incentive Mr F had received from selling the policy. They also maintained that the optional 
nature of the policy had not been made clear to them. Mr R also clarified that he thought the 
policy as too expensive as time went by.   
Having considered all the available information, I contacted Mr R to address some of the 
ongoing concerns he had. I explained that, having reviewed all the available evidence, I was 
satisfied Mrs N and Mr R had been given enough information to show the policy was 
optional, and I wasnt persuaded that Mr F had stated otherwise when making his 
recommendations. I wasnt persuaded that Mr F had been incentivised to mis-sell the policy 
because of the commission payments hed receive. I explained there was no evidence that 
Mr F had acted outside the regulations that applied at the time of the sale. I also explained 
that the way decreasing term assurance policies work they can appear more expensive in 
the latter years of cover, when the sum assured has reduced significantly. But I explained 
policy premiums are set at the outset and remain constant throughout its term. So I wasnt 
persuaded Mr Fs recommendation was unreasonable on the basis of price. 
I asked Mr R to let me know if he had any further comments by 12 November 2020. As I 
havent heard from Mrs N or Mr R by the date set, Ive now completed my investigation 
based on the information we already hold.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs N 
and Mr R, so Id like to explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
On reviewing the evidence, Im satisfied that it wasnt a condition of the mortgage that Mrs N 
and Mr R obtain life assurance. The mortgage offer specifically states No further insurance 
is required as a condition of the mortgage. I think its also significant that this document was 
sent to Mrs N and Mr R before any insurance had been recommended, which demonstrated 
that a mortgage could be obtained without insurance. Ive therefore considered whether 
Mrs N and Mr R were misled on this point in order to force them into buying a policy they 
otherwise wouldnt have bought.
 
As I was not present at the meeting that took place, and as theres no recording of the 
conversation that took place, I must consider the available evidence to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened. 
Mr F wrote to Mrs N and Mr R following their meeting to explain the recommendations hed 
made. In the letter he stated I recommend that you put in place a decreasing term 
assurance plan to include Critical Illness cover and Waiver of Premium benefit. I also 
recommend that you opt for the premiums to be guaranteed to avoid possible premium 
reviews in the future. This plan is to cover you for an initial amount of £180,000, which is 
designed to decrease along with your mortgage balance as you gradually repay the loan 
over a 25-year term. 
I accept Mr F may have strongly recommended Mrs N and Mr R take out cover. I dont 
consider that to be unreasonable. Its considered prudent financial advice to recommend that 
a mortgage is protected in the event of death or serious illness. But I'm not persuaded he 
misled them about it being optional. I think it's unlikely Mr F would've said it was a condition 
of the mortgage that Mrs N and Mr R take out insurance and then write to them confirming 
that it was optional. While Mrs N and Mr R may not have checked the paperwork, Mr F 
couldnt have predicted this.
Mr R has raised concerns that Mr F received commission payments following the sale of the 
policy. But I should explain this was, and remains, standard practice within the industry. The 
commission payments Mr F received were detailed within the plan illustration that was sent 
to Mrs N and Mr R on 11 October 2005, which they were free to consider and question at the 
time. Considering that commission payments are a standard form of remuneration for 
financial advisers, I'm not persuaded that the promise of commission incentivised Mr F to 
mis-sell the policy. 
Mr R suggested that Mr F was corrupt and acted unethically by accepting the commission 
payments. It's not my role to consider whether commission payments are ethical, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr F was corrupt or acted outside the regulations that applied 
at the time. Had Mr F been motivated purely by commission I'd have expected to see him 
sell Mrs N and Mr R far more insurance than he did. When completing the fact find he was 
prompted to consider their circumstances in relation to accident, sickness and 
unemployment insurance; income protection insurance; private medical insurance and 
buildings insurance. But he didn't sell any of these additional insurances as they seemingly 
weren't required at the time. Im therefore persuaded its more likely than not that Mr F only 
recommended policies that were suitable for Mrs N and Mr Rs circumstances at the time.
Finally, I'd like to address Mrs N and Mr Rs concerns about the price of the policy. Mr R 
explained that they were unhappy that the policy became too expensive as time went by. He 
explained that they could now obtain cover with the reduced sum assured for a much lower 
premium. I don't dispute that this may be possible, but this doesn't lead me to think the policy 
was mis-sold or was indeed unsuitable at the start due to its price. 
It might help if I explain how a decreasing term assurance policy works, and how the 
premium is set. A decreasing term assurance is generally the most cost-effective way to 
protect a capital and repayment mortgage in the event that the policyholder dies or suffers a 
critical illness (if this additional benefit is added to the policy). The sum assured slowly 
reduces over the policy term, in line with the expected reducing mortgage balance. This 
means that while the policy provides a high level of cover in the early years, the level of 
cover reduces to nothing as the policy term ends. To make the policies affordable for the 
whole term, the premium is set at the outset and remains constant throughout the term. 
While this may make the policy seem overly expensive in the later years, when the cover 
has reduced, the premium reflects the value of the policy throughout its term. So, while
I accept Mrs N and Mr R may now be able to get, what appears to be comparable cover, for 
a significantly reduced premium, I don't agree this means the policy is too expensive or 
unreasonably priced.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr F misled Mr R and Mrs N when selling the policy. Im 
satisfied that he made a reasonable, and prudent, recommendation that they protect their 
mortgage in the event either of them died or suffered a critical illness. Im satisfied that Mr R 
and Mrs N were free to accept or reject the recommendations at the time. Ive seen nothing 
else which makes be conclude the policy was mis-sold. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman