DRN-1758986
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly turned down his travel 
insurance claim.
For ease of reading, any reference to IPA includes its agent. 
What happened
Mr S claimed on his policy after missing his flight home, due to an internal flight having been 
cancelled. He booked a new flight and asked IPA to reimburse him £494.60 for the cost of 
the ticket.
IPA turned down Mr Ss claim, as it said the missed departure section of the policy didnt 
cover the circumstances of the claim. Mr S was unhappy with IPAs response and brought 
his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt think IPA had fairly turned down the 
claim. He thought it was a significant limitation to cover that only the outward journey was 
covered for a missed departure. And as IPA hadnt highlighted this he recommended that 
IPA pay £494.60, plus interest, to settle Mr Ss claim.
IPA didnt agree. It said the policy made no reference to cover for internal flights and Mr S 
agreed to the terms of the policy when he bought it. It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ss policy say:
11. Missed Departure
This section provides details of the services and benefits we provide to you during your trip 
if you are delayed when travelling to your point of international departure and you miss a 
travel departure on your outward journey.
What you are covered for
Up to the amount shown in the benefit table for additional costs you have to pay when you 
travel to your international departure point and you have taken every reasonable step to 
ensure you get there on time but you are still delayed on your way because of:
1. cancellation, failure or disruption of public transport
As Mr S was on his return journey I dont think this term provides cover for what happened, 
as it only covers the outward journey. IPA is also correct that the policy doesnt mention 
cover for missed internal flights. So, I think IPA has applied the terms of the policy correctly, 
however Ive also thought about whether its fair and reasonable for IPA to turn down Mr Ss 
claim. 
I think only covering the outward journey is a significant limitation to the policy. So, I think 
this should have been highlighted to Mr S when he bought the policy. Ive looked at the 
policy summary and it doesnt make it clear that only the outward journey is covered. Mr S 
said that if it had been highlighted then he would have bought a policy that would have 
provided more comprehensive cover. Im persuaded by what hes said, as I think most 
people would want cover for both legs of the journey. 
Mr S said that he missed his flight as the first one was cancelled. So, if the return leg was 
covered under a different policy I think he would have been able to claim successfully. I say 
that because the policy defines public transport as Any transport byair with a licensed 
carrier operating a regular and/or charter passenger service on which you are booked to 
travel.
Mr S has provided proof of payment for his new flight. Given the time thats passed I think 
hed now find it very difficult to provide any additional evidence to show that his flight was 
cancelled, and I havent seen anything to suggest this isnt a genuine claim. So, on balance I 
think he would have been covered for this claim if hed bought another policy instead. So, I 
think by not highlighting that he wouldnt be covered for this IPA caused Mr S a loss. 
To put Mr S back in the position he should have been in I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this particular complaint is for IPA to pay Mr Ss claim. That means it should pay 
him £494.60 (minus any applicable excess) plus interest at 8% simple per year calculated 
from the date of Mr S paid for the new ticket to the date it makes payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay Mr S £494.60 (minus any 
applicable excess) plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mr S paid for the new 
ticket to the date it makes payment.
If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman