DRN-3630817
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined his claim on his 
legal expenses policy.
What happened
In 2017 Mr M had a new boiler supplied and installed. In 2018 the boiler stopped working so 
an engineer was called to fix it. Following this there were multiple call outs as the boiler 
continued to breakdown between 2018  2020.
Unhappy that the supplier and manufacturer wouldnt replace it, Mr M contacted RSA in 
December 2020 to see if he could claim on his legal expenses cover. RSA passed the case 
to one of their panel solicitors to further assess. They said the claim didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy. As a result, RSA declined the claim.
Mr M complained about this and RSAs handling of the claim. RSA didnt think they had done 
anything wrong and had declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Their handling of the claim has been dealt with under a separate complaint reference by this 
service, so I havent commented on this in the decision.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong so didnt ask them to take any 
further action. As Mr M remained unhappy the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling in relation to this complaint and the time hes 
invested into it. Whilst I have considered all the information provided by both parties, I 
havent commented on it all. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature 
of our service.
RSA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline a 
claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out what is and isnt covered and form the 
agreement between Mr M and RSA. The policy explains cover is provided for the cost of 
taking legal proceedings against another person or organisation as a result of a dispute over 
a contract for buying, selling or renting goods or services. So, Mr Ms concern is covered 
here. 
However, under general exclusions it says:
Any claim where there is not a reasonable chance of you winning the case and 
achieving a reasonable outcome.
Legal proceedings where a reasonable estimate of your total legal expenses is 
greater than the amount in dispute.
Reasonable prospects of success are considered to be where a claim has 51% or more 
chance of success. RSA referred Mr Ms case to a qualified panel solicitor to assess this and 
they determined that it had less than 50% chance of success and that Mr M wouldnt qualify 
for legal expenses funding.
This means that if the claim was accepted and RSA pursued either the supplier or 
manufacturer, in the solicitors opinion, there was less than 50% chance theyd succeed in 
winning the case. 
I understand Mr M has spoken to several people at RSA in relation to this and many of them 
agreed with his feeling that the boiler wasnt fit for purpose. However, in line with the policy 
terms, RSA need to be satisfied the claim has a reasonable chance of success. This is a 
requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. Court action 
can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised its 
unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
The legal assessment was undertaken by an independent firm of solicitors and the opinion 
was both reasoned and didnt appear to be based on any factual mistakes, so it was fair for 
RSA to rely on it. 
Due to the time thats passed RSA have left it open to Mr M to submit further evidence, if he 
has any that wouldnt have been available at the time of the claim. They also said Mr M 
could obtain his own legal assessment from an alternate solicitor  but Mr M would be 
responsible for the cost of this. However, if the new legal assessment was supportive Mr Ms 
claim had 51% or greater chance of success, RSA would then obtain a barristers opinion 
which could lead to the claim being covered if the barrister also supported the case. I think 
this is reasonable and in line with what Id expect them to do.
Overall, I think RSA have declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman