DRN-3805253
The complaint
Miss E complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, havent progressed two 
chargeback claims, were rude to her on the phone when she chased progress, and wouldnt 
email her their final response.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss E, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it may be 
possible to make a claim through the chargeback scheme or through section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Halifax, its the administrator (Visa or 
Mastercard) that set the rules. Halifax didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think 
it good practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
I can see that Halifax requested further information from Miss E so that they could progress 
her claims; theyve explained that Miss E didnt provide that information. Whilst the 
timescales for progressing chargeback claims will have expired by now, claims under section 
75 remain open to Miss E if she provides the information Halifax need to progress them. 
Halifax have confirmed that is the case and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive listened to the calls Miss E had with Halifax when she tried to chase progress. Miss E 
told the operator that in a previous call she had with a female operator the operator was 
incredibly rude to her. She explained that the call had gone through to the wrong department 
and that the operator tried to put her through to the correct one. Ive listened to the call 
records provided by Halifax and have listened to that call. I dont think the operator was rude; 
she told Miss E she had come through to the wrong department, offered the correct 
departments number for future reference, and put Miss E through to it. 
Miss E also say Halifax were unreasonable not to send their final response to her by email. 
Its for Halifax to make operational decisions such as that and I dont think they were 
unreasonable to refuse to send an email. It appears Miss E would have received the letter 
regardless.
So, having considered all the information, Im not persuaded that Halifax have done anything 
wrong here and Im not asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman