DRN-3760426
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr and Mrs H hold jointly with 
Barclays Bank (UK) PLC. It was due for repayment in 2014, and Barclays has turned down 
their request for further time to sell another property in order to repay the debt. Mr and Mrs H 
thinks thats unfair. Theyre also unhappy that, following an earlier complaint about the same 
broad subject, Barclays has written upsetting letters to them directly instead of to their 
daughter, Ms M. Ms M, who represents Mr and Mrs H here, say this is putting their health in 
serious jeopardy, Mr Hs in particular.
 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs H, Ms M and Barclays. 
Im also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage term expired in 2014; since that time, the mortgage hasnt been 
repaid. Mr and Mrs Hs strategy for repaying the capital is the sale of a property owned by 
Ms M; as I understand it, selling the mortgaged property would not have raised enough to 
clear the mortgage. Ms Ms property hasnt sold. In a previous complaint, our investigator 
concluded that whilst Barclays had issued some correspondence that was inappropriate, it 
had showed Mr and Mrs H considerable forbearance and patience. 
The current complaint arises from what has happened since the first complaint was 
concluded in 2021. Ms Ms property still remains unsold, Barclays has issued further letters 
warning of the prospect of starting its recovery process, resulting in a fresh complaint. Our 
investigator didnt recommend this new complaint be upheld; Ms M has asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
I wont be revisiting the outcome of the first complaint; where I reference the investigators 
conclusions in that case, it will be for context only.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mr and Mrs H borrowed money from Barclays, and under the 
term of their agreement with Barclays, were due to repay the money in 2014. 
That means that by the time the events complained about here began, the mortgage was 
around seven years overdue for repayment, yet Mr and Mrs H still live in the mortgaged 
property. But lenders arent required to wait indefinitely, and I cant fairly find Barclays to be 
at fault if it has run out of patience with the current strategy of selling Ms Ms property.
Ms M is particularly upset that Barclays has sent further letters about potential possession 
proceeding directly to Mr and Mrs H, rather than to her as their representative. She says that 
receipt of these letters is potentially injurious to their health. Ive no reason to doubt thats the 
case, and Im not unsympathetic, but there are certain letters that a lender has to send 
directly to a borrower, to comply with the rules of mortgage regulation. As our investigator 
has already explained to Ms M, the only way around this is if Ms Ms representative is 
formalised by way of a power of attorney.  
Ms M has listed various alternative strategy options for repaying the mortgage; these 
include:
a family member raising a mortgage of their own to repay Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage;
increasing the monthly payment to £1,000 in exchange for Barclays holding off until 
Ms M can complete her sale;
Barclays holding off action whilst they explore the possibility that the mortgaged property 
has increased in value and will cover the debt if sold.
The difficulty with these proposals is that they are predicated on the assumption that 
Barclays must defer recovery action still further; and the time frame for each is speculative 
and unclear. A further extension of time is not something I can fairly require Barclays to do, 
given the forbearance it has already shown. Its possible Barclays will consider doing that, 
but to be clear, nothing I say here obliges Barclays to agree to an extension of time to 
explore other options such as those listed above, and nothing of that nature should be 
inferred.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr and Mrs H. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
are here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that Barclays has treated Mr and Mrs H 
unfairly in its actions since the previous complaint was concluded. Mr and Mrs H dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Hs right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
In making that statement, Im not encouraging Mr and Mrs H to initiate legal action or in any 
way suggesting it is anything other than a very onerous step. In the event Barclays were to 
start recovery proceedings and the case went to court, Mr and Mrs H (or Ms M on their 
behalf) could present to the court the same arguments theyve presented to us as part of 
their defence. But I would echo the investigators sentiment that Mr and Mrs H would 
probably benefit from taking legal advice on what to do next.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman