DRN-2821676
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about the level of service provided by Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited after a claim made on their motor insurance policy. Mr C is a named driver on his 
wife, Mrs Cs, policy. 
What happened
Mr C complained that Admiral recorded a claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database twice. He was also unhappy that he was told that he would still have to 
continue to pay his premium after he had cancelled a policy. Admiral agreed that it had 
made mistakes. It corrected these and offered Mr C £150 compensation for his trouble and 
upset. But Mr C remained unhappy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admirals 
level of service had compounded previous frustrations caused to Mr C in its handling of his 
claim. She thought it should have resolved the issues sooner. And so she thought Admiral 
should pay Mr C a further £100 compensation for the impact its errors had. 
Admiral agreed to do this. But Mr C replied that he didnt agree with the investigators view. 
He said hed been unable to use comparison sites to obtain insurance for three years due to 
Admirals errors. He said he had to use brokers, and pay commissions, instead. As Mr C 
rejected the investigators view, his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has agreed that it had misinformed Mr C that he couldnt cancel his policy when it 
disposed of his car. It seems that its agents didnt realise that the policy was a renewal and 
the active claim was against the previous years policy. I can understand that Mr C felt 
frustrated by this misunderstanding. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Admiral refunded the full years premium, with interest, for the policy and it 
didnt charge a cancellation fee. I think this restored Mr Cs position. Ill consider the impact 
this had on Mr C below. 
Mr C said a false claim was set up on his policy in April 2020. Admiral explained that it had 
made a mistake when it set up a new claim when Mr Cs car was scrapped. This was part of 
the same 2018 claim and shouldnt have been recorded. Admiral apologised for this. And 
Admiral has provided evidence to show that only one claim has been recorded against the 
policy. 
Mr C said problems started after the claim in 2018 when two claims were recorded against 
their policy on CUE. And then a third claim was mistakenly recorded by Admiral in April 
2020. Admiral admitted the latter error, but Mr C thought it was responsible for the first one 
too. He said Admiral hadnt acknowledged this.
Mr C provided evidence from his broker that he said showed two claims had been recorded 
for the 2018 incident. But I cant see the date of this evidence and I cant see that this was 
an extract from CUE. Ive seen evidence from Admiral that it has recorded only one claim 
against the policy. Admiral said the issue may be due to another insurers database not 
being updated. So I cant reasonably say that Admiral is responsible for this.
Admiral offered Mr C £150 compensation for the stress and frustration caused by its errors. I 
can see that Mr C had to raise his concerns several times. And I think in the context of his 
relationship with Admiral it could have taken more care to understand his concerns and 
resolve them sooner. 
Admiral agreed with the investigators recommendation that it should pay Mr C £100 further 
compensation for this. I think £250 compensation fairly reflects the impact these particular 
issues have had for Mr C and Mrs C. And I think this takes into account Mr Cs concerns that 
he had to rely on brokers to obtain cover.
 Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C and Mr C £100 further 
compensation (£250 in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman