DRN-3327747
The complaint
Mr T complains about Soteria Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but Ill primarily refer to Soteria as 
theyre responsible for it.
What happened
Mr T had an accident on 13 December 2019, and unfortunately then a further accident on 
10 February 2020.
In July 2021 Mr T contacted us, asking we look into the complaints hed raised with Soteria 
about the issues hed experienced.
I can see from the file our Investigator explained we couldnt look into those issues, as the 
rules were required to apply didnt allow us to, which Mr T accepted.
A new complaint response was issued by Soteria in November 2021. Soteria set out Mr Ts 
concerns, and their reply, under the following headings:
He was unhappy the outcome of his claim wasnt discussed with him first as he 
disagrees it should be registered as a fault claim
He wasnt told the claim had been settled
Notes on the file were unclear, meaning Soteria havent understood his case
All contact regarding his claim has been difficult and stress inducing
He didnt think the eight-week timescale Soteria had to reply to his complaint was 
reasonable
Contradictory information has been provided from L, a solicitor representing Soteria, 
and Soteria themselves
He wasnt made aware of the sale of a company involved in his claim, to another 
company.
He had concerns following a conversation with L on 18 August 2021
Overall, Soteria partially upheld Mr Ts complaint, and agreed to pay him £50. I understand 
Mr T didnt agree for this amount to be paid to him.
Our Investigator considered matters and felt the award of £50 Soteria had made was fair. 
Mr T didnt and suggested £200 would be fairer  but Soteria didnt agree to that.
So, as Mr T didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. For ease of reading, 
Ive used the same headings when explaining my findings  while including the relevant 
points from Mr T, Soteria, and our Investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
He was unhappy the outcome of his claim wasnt discussed with him first as he disagrees it 
should be registered as a fault claim
Soteria said due to the circumstances of the claim, itd be very difficult for them to argue he 
wasnt at fault. They said the policy terms allow them to settle the claim as they deem fit  
and Mr T was made aware of the claim being settled as a fault claim.
In response Mr T said Soteria saying they can settle the claim how they deem fit shows the 
disregard they have for him as a policyholder.
Our Investigator felt Soteria had acted fairly as the policy terms do allow them to settle 
claims as they did in Mr Ts case.
Mr T replied to our Investigator and said not getting the Closed Circuit Television information 
was a great hinderance to this claim  but this was covered under a separate complaint 
which we cant look into.
I think its firstly helpful to set out the policy terms. These say:
We are entitled under this policy to;
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in 
the name of any person insured by your policy.
So, Soteria are allowed to decide how best for the claim to be settled. As I can see our 
Investigator explained, this is a common term in motor insurance policies, so I dont find it 
particularly unreasonable theyve done this.
It might be useful to explain a fault claim is registered in any scenario where the insurer 
cant recover their costs. Here, Soteria havent been able to recover costs from another party 
theyve had to pay out. I can see the other insurer disputed those costs  so, Soteria got a 
legal opinion, which said it was best to settle on a 50 / 50 liability basis.
Soteria did that, but without admission of liability. Theyve said this means Mr T can pursue 
the matter privately if hed like to. 
Ive seen evidence this was discussed with Mr T through emails and call notes. So, Im 
satisfied the 50 / 50 split liability was discussed with him before it was finalised.
He wasnt told the claim had been settled
Soteria said as their solicitors L were handling the file on their behalf, theyd expect Mr T to 
be kept updated by L. They said Mr T was told by L the outcome of the claim, so he was 
aware it was being settled.
In response to Soterias reply Mr T said hed not been contacted by L. He had to chase  
and as Soteria are his insurer, they should be providing updates.
Our Investigator said L had provided information to show a call took place on 11 March 2021 
to tell Mr T about the outcome of the claim. She said this was confirmed again in an email on 20 May 2021  so she couldnt agree hed not been told about how the claim had been 
settled. She also thought it was fine for L to have told Mr T, rather than Soteria, as L were 
acting on Soterias behalf.
Mr T replied to our Investigator saying without any admission of liability means hes not 
been found to be at blame. And if that means something else in insurance terminology then 
he should have been told this.
Ive noted Mr Ts concerns, and Ive explained above about what a fault claim means. I too 
have seen the evidence from L that explains they told him the matter had been settled. 
There is a phone note recorded on 11 March 2021 to say the issue is resolved  and again 
in May 2021. So, although I can see Mr T was frustrated, I do think hes been given the 
correct information about his claim.
Notes on the file were unclear, meaning Soteria havent understood his case  and all 
contact regarding his claim has been difficult and stress inducing
Soteria said they appreciate its frustrating when Mr T is speaking to them on the phone and 
their advisers cant give him prompt responses. But, they didnt think the issue was the 
clarity of the notes, more than the issue had been going on for two years so there is a lot of 
notes on file. They said this means it can take a little time to review matters, and L holds 
notes, so sometimes theyd need to speak to L first before answering his questions.
Soteria said they were sorry Mr T had found it a difficult experience getting in touch with 
them. They said while they couldnt find any evidence of specific calls thatd been handled 
poorly  they did note a call on 23 September 2021 which was directed to a case handler 
working for a linked but different organisation. They said sorry for this.
Mr T said in response to Soteria the progress of a claim should be appropriately managed, 
and notes on any database should be clear. These notes should be available to customer 
services, so they can quickly understand matters. Mr T said L and Soteria should interact 
and work together so progress is noted.
Our Investigator explained we cant tell financial businesses like Soteria how to run their 
business, and felt their response was a fair one as theyd explained what was going on.
In response to our Investigator Mr T said he works in an environment which involves multiple 
parties and companies feeding into databases. He says he finds it disgraceful that 
communication regarding a claim isnt clear to customer services.
Its clear Mr T is really frustrated by the process Soteria have, but I cant require them to 
change it  I can only look at the impact on Mr T. 
Any claim going on as long as Mr Ts, involving multiple parties, is likely going to be a bit 
confusing and require some effort on the part of someone new to the query to understand. 
And while I can see Mr T works in a different environment, that doesnt mean I can say 
Soteria have treated him unfairly. I think their explanation is fair, and from what I can see 
theyve tried to help him when hes contacted them.
He didnt think the eight-week timescale Soteria had to reply to his complaint was 
reasonable
Soteria explained the eight-week time period is set down by the regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They said while they try to reply earlier, sometimes a 
complaint can take the full eight weeks and they didnt think this was unreasonable.Mr T said in response to Soteria his claims are several years old and theyve been brought 
to the attention of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) because of how bad the service has 
been. Mr T said the attitude was we dont care who you are or what youve experienced, 
youll wait until we can be bothered to look at it.
Our Investigator felt this wasnt something we could consider, because the FCAs rules dont 
allow us to look solely at a complaint about complaint handling.
In response to our Investigator Mr T said so if Soteria decide not to do anything for six 
months they can. They are, in effect, a law unto themselves and can treat customer 
complaints with contempt if they wish.
As our Investigator explained, we cant look solely at complaints about complaint handling. 
But, to give Mr T some information the FCAs rules regarding complaint handling do, as 
Soteria have said, set out they have up to eight weeks in order to investigate complaints. If, 
after the eight-week period has elapsed, no reply has been provided, then Soteria would 
have been required to tell Mr T he could bring his complaint to us  because theyd not 
finalised their investigation.
I hope that helps put Mr Ts mind at ease Soteria have given him the correct information, and 
they cant just ignore customer complaints.
Contradictory information has been provided from L, a solicitor representing Soteria, and 
Soteria themselves
Soteria said they could see L had sent Mr T an email saying the claim had been settled 
without admission of liability being made  and can see why this would lead him to believe 
this mean it wasnt a fault claim. Soteria have said this made Mr T think theyd then given 
contradictory information. Soteria said the reason L had settled without an admission of 
liability is so the matter can be pursued later on. But, they felt L should have made that 
clearer, and said sorry for the confusion.
Mr T said in response to Soteria this to him meant he wasnt at fault, so had he not clarified 
this it could have caused him significant problems like a cancellation of a policy.
Our Investigator agreed this could have been made clearer.
In response to our Investigator Mr T said he appreciated 50 / 50 liability would have been 
registered against him.
Ive looked at the evidence and seen no reason to disagree with what Soteria and our 
Investigator found  I cant see this was made as clear to Mr T as perhaps it should have 
been.
Mr Ts concerns on this issue relate to the potential consequences. It seems, fortunately, he 
was able to avoid those consequences. I can see Soteria said the impact of this, and a later 
issue, were worth a combined £50 compensation. Ill consider this at the end.
He wasnt made aware of the sale of a company involved in his claim, to another company
Soteria said they understood it came as a shock to hear of the sale of a company involved in 
his claim, to another company. And while they appreciated his concerns, its not something 
theyd specifically tell him about, as it wouldnt have an impact on him until renewal.
Mr T said in response to Soteria hed usually be told when there is a change like this, and it 
caused problems when he called up and got through to the wrong company.Our Investigator said while she thought itd have been good practice for them to have told 
him, she didnt think there was an impact on him.
In response to our Investigator Mr T said there was an impact, as when he called up, he got 
through to the wrong company.
I can see Soteria identified one call on 23 September 2021 which went to the wrong 
company  and which they felt contributed towards the £50 compensation. Our Investigator 
asked Mr T if he had evidence of further contact, to which Mr T said he wasnt able to 
provide anything.
While I can imagine it was surprising and frustrating to get through to the wrong company, 
Ive only been provided with evidence to suggest it was one call. And, although not ideal, I 
think one call through to the wrong company would have fairly limited impact. I do accept it 
feeds in to Mr Ts overall unhappiness. Again, Ill think about this at the end given Soteria 
have said this is, in part, the reason for their £50 award.
He had concerns following a conversation with L on 18 August 2021
Soteria said Mr T had told them hed spoken to L on 18 August 2021 and theyd said they 
had the certificate of cancellation, so the claim could be closed. Soteria said having reviewed 
their notes, the claim was already closed at the start of February 2021  with the issue 
around a certificate of cancellation being sorted at that time.
Mr T said in response to Soteria he was totally confused by this  as Soteria said they had 
the claim open, and wouldnt close it until L had negotiated with the other party, and 
concluded the court matter about the certificate. Mr T said this was misinformation, and him 
not being told the truth about whats going on.
Our Investigator said shed not found any error in Soterias communication with Mr T on this, 
as the claim had been settled, with him being told this in March 2021.
In response to our Investigator Mr T said this was odd, as hed been consistently told the 
claim hadnt been finalised and was pending on the database. Mr T said someone in 
Soterias CEOs complaints team said the matter needed to be referred to us because she 
couldnt award compensation for how bad the service had been.
From the notes Ive seen, L told Mr T the claim was settled in the phone call on 
11 March 2021. The notes back and forth since then suggest the only outstanding issue was 
the certificate of cancellation. In May 2021, L said to Mr T the only outstanding issue was the 
administration of getting the Certificate of Cancellation. 
The 18 August 2021 email says The certificate was received from the Court on the 12th 
August 2021 and has now been sent to your insurers so this concludes the claim. I think the 
last three words are perhaps what has caused some confusion here with L saying this 
means the claim is concluded. But, I can see Mr T had previously been told the claim was 
settled, and I dont think this wording clearly says the claim hadnt been settled previously. I 
think, in effect, all L were saying is there isnt anything more for them to do.
Summary
Mr T has had a difficult time having two claims occurring in such a short space of time, and 
matters ongoing for a long time. So, he has my sympathies for what has clearly been a difficult time. But, I can only award compensation for the issues within my authority  which 
excludes a fair proportion of the concerns Mr T has raised.
For the issues Ive explained above, Soteria have awarded Mr T £50  to reflect the lack of 
clarity from L around the settling of the claim as fault  and because Mr T reached the other 
company in error on one occasion.
Although Mr T has raised a number of concerns, I cant see that Soteria have done anything 
else wrong. So, in thinking about a fair resolution, I do think the award Soteria have made is 
fair  and I wont be asking them to increase it.
My final decision
Soteria Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the claim and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Soteria Insurance Limited should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman