DRN-4066329
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement offered by AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited following a claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by AA. In February 2022 he made 
a claim after a storm caused damage to a flat roof that his property shares with its 
neighbour. AA accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement for the repair to Mr Cs part 
of the roof and the internal damage.
However Mr C wasnt happy with the settlement offer. He said it had cost him significantly 
more to have the work done than AA had offered. He provided a quote he had obtained and 
made a complaint. 
AA didnt uphold the complaint and maintained its position on the settlement. So Mr C 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that AA should settle the 
claim at the cost of the work to Mr C, rather than the amount it would cost it to carry out.
Mr C accepted our investigators outcome, however AA didnt. It said the quote Mr C had 
provided included some betterment that wouldnt be covered under the policy, and it 
included the work to the neighbours side of the roof which wasnt an insurable interest on Mr 
Cs policy. It asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of a claim settlement, an insurer can either carry out the work using its own 
contractors or cash settle in order for the insured to get the work done using their own 
contractors. Here, the roof thats been damaged is owned in part by Mr C and part by his 
neighbour. So as the full extent of the work to repair the roof wouldnt be covered by Mr Cs 
insurance policy, AA has made a fair decision to offer a cash settlement instead, to cover Mr 
Cs portion of the costs. 
However where an insurer opts to cash settle, rather than doing so at the option of the 
insured, this service would expect it to pay the amount the repairs would cost to the insured, 
rather than how much it would cost it  as this is often a cheaper amount due to trade 
discounts. 
Here, while AA has made a fair decision to cash settle, it was due to necessity rather than 
the choice of Mr C. And I dont think it fair that Mr C should be penalised just because he 
shares a roof with his neighbour. So I think it fair that AA pay the amount it cost Mr C for the 
portion of the roof he is responsible for.
AA has raised concerns about calculating this amount and that the quote provided contains 
betterment. AA has provided the measurements for the portion of the roof that Mr C is 
responsible for, as it is these dimensions it has based its own settlement on. So I consider it 
feasible for it to calculate the proportion of the cost of the roof based on that. 
In regards to betterment, this service wouldnt expect AA to cover costs above the amount to 
put the insured back into the position they were in before the claim. However in relation to 
the felt flashing being replaced with lead, AA has provided its notes on the case in which it 
states:
In addition, we have allowed the felt flashing to be replaced with lead flashing as its 
considered best building practice..
So I wouldnt expect it to change its previous decision on how the claim should be settled, 
just because it is now required to do so at the insureds costs.
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that AA should pay Mr C the cost of the 
repairs he is responsible for based on the amount he has paid. As Mr C has now been 
without the funds since the work was carried out, it should also pay 8% simple interest on 
this amount from the date Mr C paid for the repairs, until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Cash settle Mr Cs claim at the amount the work cost him covering the cost of the work 
he is responsible for, and that is covered by his policy.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Mr C paid for the repairs, until the 
date the settlement is paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman