DRN-3116361
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc wouldnt repair his car after a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy and hes also unhappy with its level of service.
What happened
Mr Rs car was damaged, and he made a claim on his policy. AXA had an engineer assess 
his car and it was declared to be beyond economical repair. Mr R was unhappy with this as 
he thought additional damage had been caused to his car. And he was unhappy with AXAs 
level of service in responding to his complaint. AXA offered Mr R £150 compensation for 
this, but he declined this offer. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA had 
reasonably relied on the engineers assessment in deciding not to repair Mr Rs car. He 
thought AXA had raised the issue of further damage and the engineer had confirmed this 
was pre-existing. The engineer also said this wouldnt have changed the decision to declare 
the car beyond economical repair or the settlement paid to Mr R. And the investigator 
thought AXAs offer of compensation for the service issues was fair and reasonable.
Mr R replied that he wanted an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R wanted his car repaired after the accident. Mr R told us that he thought 
additional damage had been caused to his car after it was recovered by AXAs agent. He 
compared photographs hed taken with those provided by AXA. But AXA said the further 
damage was pre-existing and obscured by dirt in the photographs provided by Mr R. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
From what I can see, AXA made its initial decision that Mr Rs car was beyond economical 
repair from photographs provided by Mr R. His car was then assessed by its agent who 
confirmed the damage and the estimated repairs costs. These made the car beyond 
economical repair. 
The agent compared its photographs of the car with Mr Rs photograph. And it thought the 
further damage noted by Mr R was pre-existing. Ive not seen any expert engineering 
evidence to counter this view. So I think AXA has justified its decision about this damage. 
AXA said that this damage didnt affect the settlement made to Mr R or its decision not to 
repair the car. So I cant see that the damage caused any loss to Mr R in any case.
Mr R said AXA had promised to respond to his complaint within eight weeks. But it 
responded two months after the deadline and only when Mr R prompted it. AXA apologised 
for this and it offered Mr R £150 for the frustration and inconvenience caused. I think that 
reflects the impact the error had on Mr R and its in keeping with our published guidance. So 
I think thats fair and reasonable and I dont require AXA to increase this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman