DRN-2105757
The complaint
Company B complains that Bank of China (UK) Limited (BOC) isnt returning the money it 
paid in error to one of BOCs customers.
What happened
In early 2018, the director of Company B made two payments of £12,000 over two days to 
an account with BOC. Unfortunately the account number was entered incorrectly and so the 
payments were directed to a wrong account.  
Company Bs bank contacted BOC soon after. As I understand it, the second £12,000 was 
returned by BOC. It later explained to us that whilst the first payment was straightaway 
credited to the (wrong) beneficiary, when the second payment was received, that triggered 
some checks at BOCs end. As part of the check it was identified that the payees name did 
not match the account number and so that money was returned.
Though the first payment was credited to the incorrect beneficiary, the money still remained 
in the account when BOC was advised of the erroneous transfer. BOC proceeded to freeze 
the beneficiarys account and then tried to contact them. However despite several attempts, 
BOC has received no response. BOC told Company B that the funds should remain in the 
account until they hear from the beneficiary.
After making several unsuccessful attempts with BOC to try and get the money back, 
Company B complained to us. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She noted that Company B is a small 
business according to our rules and hence we are only able to look at what BOC did or 
failed to do on or after 1 April 2019. She concluded that it isnt fair for BOC to continue to 
hold Company Bs funds. So she said that BOC should return the funds, together with 
interest from 1 April 2019 to the date of payment. 
BOC did not agree. It said that it is willing to refund the money to Company B following 
investigators recommendation, but it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay interest. This is 
because it did all it could, keeping in mind the requirements of Payment Service regulations. 
It also required a guarantee from Company Bs bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Based on what I have seen, I am persuaded that the payment was indeed made in error by 
Company B to a wrong beneficiary and that happened due to Company B inputting wrong  
account number. When BOC investigated the second transfer, it found that the payees 
name and the account number did not match. This corroborates what Company B has said. 
Also, as noted by the investigator, if the beneficiary was expecting £24,000 but received only 
£12,000 it is reasonable to expect that they contacted BOC or Company B for the balance. 
But they never did. 
So I consider, on balance, that the beneficiary incorrectly received £12,000 which was not 
meant for them. 
BOC took swift action in freezing the beneficiarys account as the fund was still available. It 
also made several attempts to contact them. For example I can see that between May 2018 
and February 2019, BOC tried to contact the beneficiary no less than 16 times and it tried 
through different ways. However the beneficiary did not respond even once. In fact they 
have made no contact with BOC to date. That again is unusual if someone had £12,000 of 
their money frozen.
Despite this, BOC insists that it wouldnt return the funds unless it had spoken to the 
beneficiary. It suggests that without the beneficiarys consent if it transferred the funds out, 
that wouldnt be considered as having been authorised by them under the Payment Service 
Regulations (PSR). 
However that money never belonged to the beneficiary and BOC has acknowledged that. In 
situations like this, Regulation 90 of the PSR in fact requires BOC to co-operate in the efforts 
to recover funds. 
BOC says that it co-operated by providing the payers bank all relevant information about the 
payee for the collection of funds. But I think it should do more here, as the funds are in its 
possession.
In its letter dated 6 June 2018 it told the beneficiary: We would like to notify you that a 
payment of £12,000 had been made to your account by payers mistake .. According to 
section 15.3 of our Term and Conditions (personal accounts).. if a payment is made into your 
account by mistake, we must return this to the paying bank. If this is not possible, we must 
give them your name and contact address.... 
So according to its own terms and conditions, BOC must return the funds and only if that 
was not possible, it must provide payees contact details. Here it is possible to return the 
funds as BOC has retained it, so I think that it could do more than simply providing some 
details of the payee to the payers bank.
In this regard, I note that the Authorised Push Payment Voluntary Best Practice Standards, 
a voluntary set of standards developed by UK Finance for sending and receiving firms to 
follow when processing a claim of an APP scam says this:
Upon notification and subject to the Receiving Firm's investigation, identified funds should 
always be repatriated back to the Sending Firm's holding account, at the risk of the 
Receiving Firm, subject to following exceptions:
Receiving Firm is refused consent from the NCA to repatriate funds.
A credible complaint or dispute received from the recipient of the funds. 
Beneficiary ownership of the funds cannot be established. 
Reimbursement had already taken place in which case, funds will need to be 
proportionately split between both Firms.Thus under these standards the expected industry practice is to repatriate the funds back to 
the sending bank at the risk of receiving bank. I appreciate that this is in relation to APP 
scams whereas here it was an erroneous transfer. However I consider that the above gives 
an indication of industry standards in similar situations, like here. 
I have considered whether any of the four exceptions apply here and my conclusion is that 
they do not. There is no refusal of any sorts by the NCA. There was no credible complaint or 
dispute received from the recipient of funds. There had in fact been no contact by the 
beneficiary even two years after their account was frozen and despite several chasers. BOC 
has acknowledged that the funds were in fact Company Bs and that it was paid in error. And 
the funds still remain with BOC (i.e. the reimbursement hadnt taken place).
Ultimately, as I noted earlier, I will have regard to the relevant laws and good industry 
practice and will determine the complaint with reference to what in my opinion is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
Essentially BOC is insisting that it would have to speak to the beneficiary (who has not 
responded despite many attempts) before it can return an amount (which it has accepted 
was erroneously paid into the beneficiarys account). By taking this position, it has retained 
Company Bs funds for nearly two and half years, despite Company B letting it know that this 
is a significant sum for them. If this situation continues, there is a good chance that the funds 
could forever remain with BOC. I dont think this is fair and reasonable.
Therefore I agree with the investigators conclusion that it is fair the funds are returned to 
Company B.
Putting things right
It appears that BOC is now agreeable to return the funds but wants a guarantee from the 
senders bank. From what I understand it isnt the sender banks policy to provide a 
guarantee in situations like this. I will ask the investigator to confirm this. However I dont 
think that BOC can withhold the money insisting on a guarantee, for the reasons I have 
already explained.
BOC considers it unfair that it is asked to pay interest. It feels that it had done everything it 
could do to help Company B. 
I accept that BOC acted promptly to withhold the payment and it tried many times to contact 
the beneficiary, but it has been more than two years since the transfer and the money hadnt 
yet been returned. I think at some point during this period BOC ought to have reconsidered 
what was the right thing to do in the circumstances, and returned the money. However it 
failed to do so. 
It is difficult to be precise as to when that ought to have happened. As stated at the outset, 
we cannot consider any BOCs failures that occurred prior to 1 April 2019. However, by that 
time it was over a year since the transfer was made. And BOC had already tried no less than 
16 times to contact the beneficiary but to no avail. The beneficiary had simply hadnt 
responded. 
So I agree with the investigator that it is reasonable to conclude that at least by 1 April 2019 
BOC could have reconsidered its position and returned the funds to Company B. Further, 
Company B had told BOC that this is a significant sum for it. So it is appropriate to allow for 
the impact the delay in returning the funds had on the business. The investigator has 
recommended that BOC pay simple interest at 8% p.a. towards this and in the 
circumstances, I consider it a fair remedy.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, Bank 
of China (UK) Limited should:
Return the £12,000 to Company Bs account 
Pay simple interest on it at 8% p.a. from 1 April 2019 to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman