DRN-4081655
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K have complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc misinformed them that a 
claim Mrs K made for unemployment had a maximum 12 month benefit period.
What happened
Mrs K made a claim on their mortgage payment protection insurance policy in 2019 after 
getting made redundant. St Andrews accepted the claim and paid out on it for 12 months. It 
finalised the claim on 25 March 2020 on the basis that the maximum benefit had been paid. 
Mrs K subsequently found a new job and returned to work on 21 April 2020. 
In 2022 Mrs K found some policy paperwork showing that the maximum benefit period was 
24 months. Upon receiving Mrs Ks complaint, St Andrews accepted that was the case. It 
therefore paid out an additional amount on the claim to cover the period that Mrs K remained 
unemployed up to and including 20 April 2020. It also offered her £150 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our adjudicator thought that St Andrews had acted reasonably in paying the remainder of 
the claim under the existing policy terms and in offering £150 compensation.
Mr A and Mrs K disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K says that she told St Andrews over the phone that the policy covered 24 months but it 
was adamant that it was only 12 months. Shes also provided letters she received from St 
Andrews that re-affirm the 12 months maximum benefit. Some of the letters also give 
different end dates for the claim, which Mrs K describes as sloppiness. St Andrews accepts 
that it made mistakes in assessing the claim. The question is whether the remedy it has 
offered is sufficient to make up for those mistakes.
As Mrs K started a new job on 21 April 2020, Im satisfied that St Andrews has acted 
reasonably, in line with the policy terms and conditions, in paying the remaining period of 
claim up to 20 April 2020.
Mrs K says that the pressure to find a job within 12 months added to the stress of the 
situation. I appreciate what Mrs K is saying. But, in order for the claim to succeed, Mrs K 
needed to be actively looking for work anyway.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs K has said. Ive no doubt that it was a stressful 
time. However, on balance, I consider that St Andrews offer of £150 compensation is 
reasonable and proportionate for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr A and Mrs Ks complaint. St. Andrews 
Insurance Plcs offer of £150 compensation was reasonable and it should pay this to Mrs K 
now if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman