DRN-2892880
The complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs D bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs D and AXA a provisional decision on 26 May 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Ds store card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy 
was for and then had two options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. 
The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mrs D signed 
the form to confirm her choices. She was also given a pre-contract information page which 
had a section for PPI. This section reiterated that the policy was optional, and gave Mrs D 
the option to choose what type of cover shed like.
I understand that the staff may have helped Mrs D fill in the application. But even if the staff 
member physically filled the form in, they would need to have discuss it with Mrs D, not least 
to get the details such as her date of birth and nearest relative. So I think its most likely they 
discussed the choice for PPI with her, too. Further, Mrs D did sign her application to confirm 
what was on it, and there was an onus on her to read what she was signing for. And I think 
the paperwork made it clear the PPI was optional. Lastly, Ive not seen any wider problems 
with AXAs sales process from the time, nor anything which makes me think that Mrs D was 
misled into buying it here. So I think its most likely that AXA made it clear that Mrs D had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Mrs D tailored financial advice about buying PPI  this was a non-advised 
sale. That means AXA did not have to look into Mrs Ds circumstances or check whether the 
PPI was suitable for her. They did have to give Mrs D enough information to decide for 
herself whether the PPI was right for her.
It is possible that the information AXA gave Mrs D about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like Mrs D was 
eligible for the policy and was not affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ds work benefits and covered her for much longer. And 
it meant she wouldnt have to ask her partner to pay for her store card if she fell on difficult 
times. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs D in case something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs D could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put her 
off taking it out.
Lastly, Ive thought about the rules surrounding commission and profit share on PPI policies. 
But those rules only apply to lenders, and AXA were not the lender here, so those rules 
arent relevant in this case about AXA. I understand that Mrs D has spoken with the lender 
about those points separately.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
23 June 2021. But neither Mrs D nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman