DRN-4003418
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank Ltd hasnt refunded all the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a friendship scam in 2021. Mr B has a representative who has made submissions on his 
behalf, but for clarity in what follows I will refer only to Mr B.
What happened
In mid-2021 Mr B says he was contacted through social media by someone who claimed to 
work on a ship  Ill refer to this person as S. Mr B chatted to S for a while and then S said 
they wouldnt be able to be in contact as they were embarking on a voyage.
Mr B says he was then contacted in September 2021 by S, saying her ship had been 
attacked by pirates. S said she had a strongbox onboard containing a large amount of cash. 
She said she wanted to have this shipped to Mr B to avoid it being stolen by the pirates.
Mr B provided his address, but S explained she didnt have enough money to pay for the 
shipment. She asked him if he could pay for this.
When Mr B asked S why she couldnt use the money in the strongbox, S explained she 
didnt want to open the box in front of the shipping company. Mr B was told hed be 
contacted by the shipping company to arrange payment. He was told not to divulge the 
contents of the box to avoid the risk of its theft.
Mr B made a payment of £1,300 from his Metro Bank account by Faster Payments transfer 
on 6 October 2021. He believed this was to pay for the shipment of the strongbox. He sent 
this payment to a personal account (as opposed to an account held by a company).
S then told Mr B the shipping company had scanned the box and identified that it contained 
money. It now needed a diplomatic immunity tag which would cost a further £23,580. Mr B 
visited his Metro branch, and from there he sent an initial payment of £12,000, again to the 
same personal account.
Metro noted that the payment was unusual for Mr B and questioned him about it. Mr B gave 
the story that this was for a shipment of clothing. Metro accepted this story, and the payment 
was sent.
A few days later Mr B returned to the branch and paid the balance of £11,580. This time the 
payment was sent by international transfer to an account in the Philippines. Mr B was again 
spoken to by Metro. On this occasion he told Metro the payment was going to his partner in 
the Philippines. Metro accepted this story and allowed the payment to go through. 
However, S began to ask Mr B for more money, and after she failed to verify what she was 
saying, Mr B realised this had been a scam. He reported the matter to Metro. Metro was 
unable to recover the funds Mr B had sent. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which can provide additional protection to scam victims against the impact 
of Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams). The CRM Code doesnt apply to 
international payments such as the third payment made here. But it would apply to the first 
and second payment Mr B had sent.
Metro considered the first two payments under the CRM Code. Metro didnt think Mr B had 
held a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a legitimate purpose or that he 
was paying who he expected to pay. So it didnt think Mr B was due a full refund of these 
payments under the CRM Code. It said it would reimburse 50% of the first payment, 
because it could have done more to protect Mr B. But Metro said it had provided Mr B with 
an effective scam warning for payment two, and so wouldnt be refunding any of that sum.
The CRM Code didnt apply to payment three. Metro didnt accept it was at fault for that final 
payment and didnt think it could reasonably have prevented the loss. It did not reimburse 
Mr B for that payment.
In total, Metro refunded £650 (half of payment one). This left Mr B with a loss of £24,230.
Mr B asked our service to look into the matter. Our Investigator agreed with Metro that Mr B 
hadnt had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were legitimate. That meant she 
didnt think payments one and two needed to be refunded in full under the CRM Code. But 
she didnt think Metro had evidenced that the warning it gave was effective for payment 
two. So the bank needed to reimburse 50% of that payment. 
For payment three, the Investigator thought Metro could have prevented the payment, but 
again thought it was fair that Mr B should equally share the responsibility for the resulting 
loss. She said Metro should also refund him half that payment.
Mr B accepted the Investigators proposed settlement. However, Metro didnt agree so I 
have been asked to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as that of our Investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons.
Firstly, Metro has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers 
give it. As a starting point, a customer will therefore assumed liable for a payment they have 
instructed to be made. There is no dispute that Mr B authorised these payments, albeit 
having been deceived into believing he was paying for various shipping costs which later 
turned out to be false. So, on the face of it he is liable for the resultant losses.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams such as this was. Im satisfied that the first two payments made here fall within 
the scope of the CRM Code. 
However, the last payment was an international payment which means it is not within the 
scope of the CRM Code, and so I cannot fairly apply the terms of the Code to that payment. 
Payments covered by the CRM Code
While the CRM Code offers additional protection to the victims of an APP scam, it includes 
provisions allowing a firm not to fully refund APP scam losses in some situations.Relevant here, this includes an exception to full reimbursement where the customer made a 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that they were paying for genuine goods or 
services, dealing with a legitimate person or business, or paying the person they believed 
they were paying.
Metro says this exception applies here. It says Mr B made these payments without holding a 
reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a legitimate person or making a payment 
to a shipping company for genuine services.
I have considered whether Mr B made these payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing what he did. 
I appreciate that the scam unfolded over a period of time. During that time the scammer was 
able to build trust with Mr B. And the story had features that undoubtably made it seem 
believable to Mr B at the time.
But I also think the underlying story was at its heart highly implausible. I think Mr B should 
reasonably have doubted what he was being told. Had Mr B searched the name of the 
shipping company online, hed have found reports indicating it was a scam, and none 
indicating it was legitimate. I also find that the evidence he was later given (an X-ray 
purportedly showing money in a crate) wasnt evidence to show that the person he was 
dealing with had the money they claimed to. And I think he should have had significant 
doubts about the instruction to send these large payments to personal accounts rather than 
accounts in the name of a shipping business.
Overall, while Ive carefully considered everything Mr B has said about why he thought what 
he did and why he believed the story at the time, on balance it is my finding that Mr B made 
these payments without having a reasonable basis for believing what he did. So I find Metro 
is entitled to rely on that exception to full reimbursement under the terms of the CRM Code, 
in relation to both payment one and payment two.
The CRM Code sets out standards that firms are required to meet. Where these are not met, 
the firm may still be liable to reimburse a victim in part, even where it has been able to 
establish that an exception to full reimbursement may be fairly applied (as I am satisfied 
Metro has established here).   
Relevant here, those requirements include the provision of what the Code defines as an 
Effective Warning when a firm identifies an APP scam risk in relation to a payment. 
For payment one, Metro has already accepted it must share liability under the code. It has 
already refunded Mr B 50% in respect of that payment. I consider that is the fair outcome 
under the terms of the CRM Code, so I have not considered that payment further. 
In relation to payment two, Metro says it gave Mr B an Effective Warning, in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code. I have considered the evidence provided by Metro to determine 
whether I am persuaded it has established that it met its standards under the terms of the 
CRM Code in this respect.
Metro has provided a copy of the text of the warning message it says Mr B received. As Mr B 
was making the payment in branch, it appears the message would have been delivered 
verbally, but the staff member was required to say: Have you spoken to the person you are 
sending these funds to verify its them and their account. Always confirm new bank details by 
speaking to the person. You could lose your money if this payment results in a scam. 
Metros system records that this message was read to Mr B at the time of payment two.I appreciate that, in reading Mr B this message, Metro took steps to provide him with a scam 
warning during the payment journey. However, despite this, Im not persuaded Metro has 
demonstrated that it met the minimum requirements to provide an Effective Warning under 
the CRM Code.
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an Effective 
Warning. That includes the requirements to be both specific to the scam risk identified and 
to be impactful  to positively affect customer decision-making in a manner whereby the 
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. The code goes on to say this should 
include steps to ensure that the customer can reasonably understand the consequences of 
continuing with an irrevocable payment.
The warning does set out that the customer might lose their money if the payment resulted in 
a scam. So, it did set out the consequences and in an understandable way. 
The scam warning information appears tailored to the risk of an invoice interception scam  
where a genuine invoice had been intercepted and the payment details altered to misdirect 
the customers payment.
In this instance though, Im satisfied that Metro should reasonably have identified that the 
scam risk might be something else. Metros notes record that Mr B was paying a shipping 
company to buy goods which are clothes. But I find this implausible. This answer should 
have concerned Metro that Mr B might be falling victim to a different type of scam than an 
invoice interception scam. 
Firstly, it is unclear why someone would be paying a personal account, when the payment 
was meant to be going to an international shipping company. And it seems very unusual to 
be paying £12,000 for clothing to be shipped, or even to be paying £12,000 for clothing 
items. As Metro noted at the time the payment was not in line with what was usual for Mr B  
I agree. I think this payment and this explanation of it were both significantly out of character 
considering Mr Bs prior history with Metro.
I think Metro should have had serious concerns that what Mr B was telling it wasnt likely to 
be true  in other words it was a cover story. I find the story was particularly implausible 
given what Metro knew about Mr Bs normal usage of the account. Relevant here, its long 
been recognised by, for example the Banking Protocol, that sometimes scam victims will 
have been given a cover story to use. As a matter of good industry practice, Id expect 
branch staff to have been alert to the risk of this.
In summary, while Metro identified a scam risk from its interaction with Mr B, Im not 
persuaded it identified an appropriate scam risk based on what it could reasonably have 
identified in the circumstances (even though Mr B was using a false story). Im not satisfied 
that the provision of the warning it gave was sufficient to show Metro complied with the 
requirements of the CRM Code in relation to this payment.
As I have found Metro failed to meet its requirements under the CRM code in relation to 
payment two, Metro should share liability for the resultant loss with Mr B and should have 
reimbursed him 50% of that payment. 
Payment three - not covered by the CRM Code
As Ive noted above, payment three was an international payment  and consequently the 
CRM Code does not apply.
Nevertheless, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, Id expect Metro to have been on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions - intervening in the event it 
had concerns a payment might result in financial harm through fraud or scam.
Metros notes from this transaction say that the payment again was not in line with what was 
usual for Mr Bs account. I consider Metro was correct in identifying this was an out of 
character and unusual payment for Mr B. He was making a payment of over £10,000 to an 
international payee whom hed never paid before. Indeed, it doesnt appear, based on the 
account history provided by Metro, that Mr B had made any international payments 
previously.
Metro says it again read Mr B a warning message. This time, as Mr B had said the payment 
was going to his partner, the warning message was slightly different saying [] always 
speak to the person and verify the bank details you have been given and If you havent 
spoken to them it could be that it isnt them requesting the payment.
I dont think this went far enough. By this point, Mr B was attempting to make a second large 
and out of character payment within the space of a few days. Again, the story here wasnt 
particularly persuasive or detailed. I dont think Metro should reasonably have been 
reassured by what Mr B was telling it that he wasnt about to fall victim to a fraud or scam as 
a result of the payment. 
As a matter of good industry practice, Metro should have followed the Banking Protocol in 
these circumstances. Its records do not show that this happened. The Banking Protocol 
reflects an industry awareness that a feature of some scams will be that the consumer has 
been given a cover story to use. I do not find that Metro should have considered the 
payment reason Mr B gave was sufficient to establish that he wasnt about to lose the money 
to a scam. For example, if this was his supposedly his partner, that doesnt seem consistent 
with him never having sent money to the Philippines before.
I think Metro should have pressed Mr B further about the purpose of the payment. Had it 
done so, Im not persuaded his cover story would have held up to further enquiry. Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that Mr Bs cover story here was anything more than superficial in 
depth or that hed prepared a more detailed set of circumstances that might have enabled 
him to convince the bank that the story wasnt fabricated. I think, given further enquiry in line 
with the expectations of the Banking Protocol, the scam may well have come to light then 
and there. But even if it didnt, I am satisfied that the further steps available under the 
Banking Protocol would have led to the scam being identified (through the involvement of the 
Police).
In summary, I find that as a matter of good industry practice, Metro should have prevented 
this payment from being made. That it did not do so has led to the loss.
However, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that a 
reduction for contributory negligence should apply here. I consider that for similar reasons to 
those I have set out above, Mr B should have identified that what he was being asked to do 
by the scammer was not legitimate. All considered I find it fair that Metro and Mr B should 
equally share the loss caused by payment three.
Putting things right
As explained above, I find that Metro should have reimbursed Mr B 50% of payment two in 
line with the provisions of the CRM Code. I also find that Metro should have prevented 
payment three and that it should be held liable for 50% of that payment. 
Had Mr B been refunded these sums when he should have been, it is not clear how he would have used the money. In the circumstances, I consider it fair that Metro should add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per year to reflect the time that Mr B has been deprived of 
the use of these funds.
Therefore, within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision, 
Metro should:
- Pay Mr B 50% of payments two and three, equating to amounts of £6,000 and 
£5,790 respectively. Metro may deduct any sums it has already recovered or 
reimbursed in respect of these two payments; and,
- Add interest to those amounts at the rate of 8% simple per year. In respect of 
payment two, this interest should be calculated from the date Metro declined to 
reimburse Mr B under the CRM Code until the date of settlement. In respect of 
payment three, the interest should be calculated from the date of the payment until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Metro Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman