DRN-2701143
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and didnt inform him. He wants the policy reinstated, the cancellation 
reversed and compensation for his trouble and upset and for being stopped by the police for 
driving whilst uninsured. Mr C is represented in this matter by his mother, Mrs C, a named 
driver on his policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with RSA that required a telematics box to be fitted to his car. He gave 
RSA his email address and mobile number for any contacts. Six months into the policy, Mr C 
reported an incident to RSA when his car was damaged whilst parked but no claim was 
made. Nine months into the policy, Mr C was stopped by the police for driving whilst 
uninsured. He said this was when he learned that the policy had been cancelled. 
RSA said it had cancelled the policy in keeping with the policy terms and conditions after 
warning Mr C by email and text three times for speeding. It said it sent him seven days 
notice of the cancellation by email. And then it sent him a refund of premium, which Mr C 
received. Mr C said he hadnt received the warning texts or emails or the cancellation 
emails.   
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought RSA 
had sent the texts and emails to the addresses provided by Mr C. He thought RSA hadnt 
received any bounce backs to show that they hadnt been received. 
He thought Mr C had received the letter with the premium refund, but he hadnt questioned 
this. And when Mr C reported the incident, three days before the policy cancelled, the claims 
team wouldnt have been aware of the pending cancellation. 
Mrs C replied that she thought it was unfair for RSA to send the cancellation letters by email 
rather than by post. She thought RSA knew that the emails may be put into junk folders 
and deleted. She thought allowance should be made for Mr C, as a young driver, not 
understanding why he received a refund of premium. 
Mrs C thought Mr C shouldnt be penalised because RSA didnt communicate the 
cancellation to all departments. She thought RSA should have reiterated in its letter 
enclosing the refund cheque that the policy had been cancelled. Mrs C asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
RSA said it had cancelled Mr Cs policy because of the speeding events recorded by the 
telematics box. I can see that the policy states that it will be cancelled with seven days 
notice if there are four unacceptable driving events. 
RSA said it sent Mr C emails and texts warning him on three occasions when he was 
speeding that his policy may cancel. On the fourth occasion, it sent him a text and email that 
his policy would cancel with seven days notice. 
So I think RSA was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to cancel the policy due to the 
repeated unacceptable driving behaviours. The policy states that RSA will communicate with 
Mr C by letter or email in the event of cancellation. So I cant say that it was against the 
policy terms and conditions for RSA to send texts and emails. 
But we believe that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are 
told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences for them and 
expose them to possible court action. So Ive thought about whether RSA acted fairly and 
reasonably in telling Mr C that his policy had cancelled. 
Mrs C thought emails may end up in a junk or spam folder and be deleted unseen. She 
thought that RSA should have called or written to Mr C. 
I agree that this would have been good customer service. But I think RSA took sufficient 
steps to notify and then tell Mr C of the cancellation as it used both email and text. It didnt 
receive any bounce backs of the emails to alert it that they hadnt been received. And I can 
see that the email address and telephone number used are those that Mr C provided when 
he took out his policy. 
The emails may have ended up in a spam folder, but I think this doesnt explain why Mr C 
said that he didnt receive the texts. The cancellation text asked Mr C to check his emails 
and I think if hed done this he would then have seen the notice of cancellation. 
Mrs C thought RSA should have warned Mr C when he called it to notify it of an incident that 
his policy was about to cancel. But RSA has already explained that its systems dont allow 
the claims team to see pending cancellations. I think RSAs processes are its commercial 
decision and this isnt something I can normally comment upon. And, as the policy was still 
live at that stage, I dont think RSA made an error on this point. 
The policy then cancelled, and RSA sent Mr C an email confirming this and then a letter 
enclosing a refund of premium. This didnt explain that the refund was due to the 
cancellation. But I think RSA had already notified Mr C about this and so I dont think that 
was essential. The cheque was for £454.84, which I think is substantial, but I cant see that 
Mr C queried this with RSA before he banked it. 
Mrs C thought allowance should be made for Mr C being a young driver. But I cant see that 
RSA has treated Mr C any differently to any other customers and so I cant say that it has 
treated him unfairly. 
So I think RSA was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to cancel Mr Cs policy due to 
multiple episodes of unacceptable driving behaviour. I think RSA took fair and reasonable 
steps to notify Mr C that his policy would cancel with seven days notice. I think it did this in 
keeping with the policy terms and conditions. And so I cant say that RSA needs to reinstate 
the policy or pay Mr C any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman