DRN-3339316
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has refused to refund several payments 
he made to a fraudulent investments trading company (Tradetime).  These payments were 
made using Mr Ks BOS credit and debit cards.
Mr K has a representative in this matter.  For simplicity, I have referred to the 
representatives actions and submissions as being those of Mr K.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, from April to August 2019, Mr K made payments (using his BOS credit and debit 
cards) to what he thought was his trading account with Tradetime.  At the time, he believed 
that they were a legitimate investments trading firm.  However, he later discovered that 
Tradetime were operating a scam.
Based on Mr Ks bank statements, the payments concerned are as follows:
Date Merchant Payment Method Amount
30 April 2019 Tradetime  Credit card £387.40 (plus £11.42 
non-sterling fee)
 6 May 2019 Tradetime  Credit card £500.38 (plus £14.76 
non-sterling fee)
25 June 2019 Transferwise 
LtdDebit card (premier account) £5,000
26 June 2019 Transferwise 
LtdDebit card (premier 
account)£4,500
27 June 2019 Transferwise 
LtdDebit card (premier 
account)£5,000
25 July 2019 Tradetime Debit card (premier 
account)£4,024.08 (plus £120.31
non-GBP fee)
30 July 2019 Tradetime Debit card (premier 
account)£8,080.68 (plus £241.61
non-GBP fee)
31 July 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £4,995.41 (plus £149.86
non-GBP fees)
31 July 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £9,827.04 (plus £294.32
non-GBP fee)
1 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £5,033.75 (plus £151 
non-GBP fee)
1 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £5,033.75 (plus £151 
non-GBP fee)
1 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £5,033.75 (plus £151 
non-GBP fee)
1 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £5,033.75 (plus £151 
non-GBP fee)
1 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £9,902.46 (plus £296.58
non-GBP fee)
1 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £9,902.46 (plus £296.58
non-GBP fee)
5 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (classic account) £8,279.38 (plus £248.05
non-GBP fee)
5 August 2019 Tradetime Debit card (premier account) £2,897.78 (plus £86.64 
non-GBP fee)
9 August 2019 Tradetime Credit (premier account) £1,637.89
Mr K asked BOS to try to recover his money.  As did not happen, he raised a complaint.
In short, BOS told Mr K that he did not have any rights under Visas chargeback scheme, so 
it did not raise one on his behalf.  Unhappy with this, Mr K referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He considered that fraud 
triggers applied to Mr Ks £5,000 payment to Transferwise on 25 June 2019.  He argued that 
there was no evidence to show BOS provided Mr K with any meaningful warnings or gave 
him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he made.  The investigator held 
that this was a missed opportunity for BOS to intervene, so he asked it to refund Mr K all his 
money  including the prior two credit card payments to Tradetime in April and May 2019; 
plus transaction fees, less credits received.
Mr K accepted the investigators findings, which were issued in October 2021.  However, 
BOS has not responded to this.  On 23 March 2022, I sent BOS the following:
This case has been referred to me for a decision.
From what I have considered, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint  subject to 
any submissions from you  for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, but with a 
slightly different approach:
I am satisfied that fraud triggers apply in this case.
I am satisfied that the third debit card payment to Transferwise for £5,000 on 25 June 
2019 should have triggered.
Unlike the investigator however, I do not think the above should apply to the first two 
credit card payments.
I am satisfied that the first two credit card payments should be refunded under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, because, in short:
oDCS chain is not broken, as credit card payments were made directly to 
Tradetime
oOther criteria for section 75 are met
oMr K has provided persuasive evidence to show he was scammed and that 
he has an action for both breach of contract and mis-representation
oThere is a FCA warning about Tradetime  albeit post Mr Ks paymentsTaking all the above points together, including this services approach to these types of 
cases which you are familiar with  I am minded to uphold this complaint and therefore direct 
that Bank of Scotland plc:
Pay Mr K all the money he lost; including any transaction fees, less any credits 
to his account  within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Ks acceptance 
of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ks 
account until the date of settlement.
If Bank of Scotland plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this 
award, it should provide Mr K with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
In my email, I also informed BOS that given the fact it did not respond to the investigators 
findings: it had until 28 March 2022 to respond to my provisional thoughts.  This date has 
now passed, and BOS has not replied.  Therefore, I will now make a decision on this 
complaint.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Below, I will deal with Mr Ks first two credit card payments under the Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 heading.  I will then deal with Mr Ks remaining debit card 
payments under the Unusual or uncharacteristic activity heading.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold part of Mr Ks complaint 
on the basis that BOS is liable to him under section 75 for the credit card payments he made 
in April and May 2019.  In doing so, I am satisfied that BOS is liable to him for these 
payments.  I say this because, in very broad summary:
There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 75:
oMr K (the debtor);
oBOS (the creditor); and
oTradetime (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Ks paperwork and on BOSs 
business file submissions.
The two transactions Mr K made were financed by his agreement with BOS (the 
deposit-transactions).
Mr Ks claim does not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the two credit 
card deposit-transactions in this case.
I will now turn to whether Mr K has a valid claim for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract.  
Misrepresentation
Turning to Mr Ks account.  In short, he has said:He had an interest in Bitcoin trading, however, when Tradetime initially contacted him 
 they said Bitcoin was, too risky an investment market and it was much safer to 
invest in the Forex Market.
Tradetime never told him about any risk in investing in the market, nor directed him to 
their terms and conditions.
Tradetime told him they were regulated and that they had a UK office.
He received several calls from Tradetime asking him to make investments.
The telephone numbers Tradetime provided were geographic virtual numbers.
Tradetime had taken payments which he had not authorised.
He was unable to withdraw his funds from Tradetime.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics used by Tradetime.  This does lead me to seriously question whether any 
actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
Tradetime offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) website dated 25 November 2020.  Although this was published post the payments 
concerned, the warning suggests Tradetime may not have been acting legitimately:
We believe this firm may be providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why you should be wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself.
The FCAs warning about Tradetime can also be found on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  Moreover, there is another 
warning about Tradetime on the Investor Alerts Portal published by the Spanish regulator 
dated 3 November 2020.
I do not think it is likely Tradetime were operating a legitimate enterprise.  Therefore, I am 
persuaded they made misrepresentations to Mr K.  That is, that they were running a genuine 
enterprise through which he could never have got back more than his deposits from the 
platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mr K had known this, he would not have deposited any 
money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, Mr K has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished.  
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
were transactions (the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that Tradetime had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr K to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mr K to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr K was not able to use the funds from his deposits on the investment platform.  Further, he 
says Tradetime prevented him from withdrawing funds from his trading account when he 
wanted to.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that Tradetime breached the above 
contractual obligations.It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Ks loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of his two deposits.
 
In summary
Ive established two grounds Mr K could have recovered his two credit card deposit-
transactions: misrepresentation and breach of contract.  As a claim for misrepresentation 
gives the highest sum, BOS should put the Mr K back into the position he would have been 
had the deposit-transactions not been entered into.  So, he should receive refunds of these 
amounts.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Turning now to the other payments Mr K made using his debit cards. 
 
I am satisfied that fraud triggers should apply from Mr Ks £5,000 payment to Transferwise 
on 25 June 2019.
I am satisfied there were reasonable grounds for BOS to suspect fraud or a scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention.  In light of the amount of the payment involved in relation to 
how Mr K normally operated his account, I think that BOS ought to have identified the risk of 
harm.  In other words, this was a highly unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for 
Mr K compared with their recent history on the account  which indicated that something 
untoward might be happening.  For example, when reviewing Mr Ks classic and premier 
account statements, there is nothing to suggest he was willing to take high risks or had a 
history of speculative investments or gambling.
Overall, it would have been reasonable for BOS to have properly questioned Mr K before 
processing the payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.  If it had done so, it likely 
would have found out about Mr Ks dealings with Tradetime and discovered the scam.
I also take the view that there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Mr K was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that Bank of Scotland plc:
Pay Mr K all the money he lost; including transaction fees, less any credits he 
received (see breakdown of payments above)  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ks account until 
the date of settlement.
If Bank of Scotland plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it 
should provide Mr K with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman