DRN-3018356
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
 
What happened
Mrs R bought solar panels for her home in July 2015. She was 76 years old at that time. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Ikano Bank (which has been repaid in full over its three-
year term), and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions. 
Ikano Bank didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano Bank is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs R was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Ikano Bank didnt treat Mrs R fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano 
Bank did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, including Mrs Rs age at the time of sale and her limited 
pension income, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mrs Rs complaint for Ikano Bank to put things right by recalculating the original loan based 
on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs R from the solar panels over the 
three year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system and any future benefits. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs R has paid more than she should have, then 
Ikano Bank needs to reimburse Mrs R accordingly. Should the calculation show that the mis-
presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs R by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, I require Ikano Bank to restructure Mrs Rs loan. It 
should recalculate the loan to put Mrs R in a position where the solar panel system is cost 
neutral over the three-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Rs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she wouldve paid more each month than she shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I 
would expect Ikano Bank to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. 
So, Ikano Bank should return the overpayments to Mrs R, plus 8% simple interest for the 
time she was without that money. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs R first 
contacted Ikano Bank that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano 
Bank should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman