DRN-2442525
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s settlement offer 
for a claim on her home insurance policy was too low.
What happened
Mrs S had a home insurance policy with LV. In May 2019, ceramic tiles fell off a bathroom 
wall and into a cast-iron bath. The damage to the bath was so severe that it needed to be 
replaced. Mrs S contacted LV to make a claim under her home insurance.
LV appointed its expert (F) to inspect the damage. F concluded that the reasons the tiles 
fell off the bathroom wall was due to poor workmanship when the tiles were fitted in 2014. 
Based on this, LV said it wouldnt pay for the tile damage as this wasnt covered by Mrs Ss 
policy, but it accepted the claim for the damaged bath. 
LV said it would replace the bath as well as a row of tiles that would have to be removed to 
replace it. However, it told Mrs S that F wasnt prepared to carry out this work as it wouldnt 
be able to give a full guarantee for this work. Instead, LV offered Mrs S a cash settlement of 
£1,124.50.
Mrs S was unhappy with this. She accepted that the bathroom tiling wouldnt be covered by 
her policy but said LVs settlement offer for repairs to the bath was too low. She provided a 
quote from her builder who estimated the cost of repairs at £3,332. She also doesnt 
understand why F cant do the repair work. When LV refused to increase its offer, she 
brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She found that LVs 
settlement offer didnt quote for a replacement cast-iron bath, but instead quoted for an 
acrylic bath. She also didnt think LVs reason for refusing to carry out repairs was 
reasonable. But she said if LV maintained this position, Mrs S should get two more quotes 
for repairs  in addition to the one she already has  and LV should pay the average of the 
three quotes to settle Mrs Ss claim.
LV accepted our investigators point about the bath but disagreed with the rest of her 
findings. In summary, it said:
It doesnt think its practical for F to tile part of the wall and guarantee only that part of 
the wall.
Mrs Ss policy says LV wont pay more than the amount it would pay to its supplier, 
so it shouldnt have to consider a higher estimate from Mrs S.
Mrs S explained that her husband is seriously ill, and she doesnt want contractors to come 
to her house. She doesnt believe shes able to get more quotes for the repair work.
The case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss home insurance schedule shows she had accidental damage cover on her buildings 
insurance that specifically covers damage to your bath. LV accepted that part of her claim.
However, the General exclusions in Mrs Ss policy says it doesnt cover anything which 
happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear. Given Mrs Ss account of 
what happened, and Fs inspection, I think this conclusion was reasonable.
Im satisfied that LVs initial assessment of Mrs Ss claim was fair: that she wasnt covered 
for the tiles falling off the wall, but she was covered for the resultant accidental damage to 
the bath. I understand that Mrs S has accepted that decision.
LV isnt prepared to carry out the repairs to the bath. It told us, Our contractors cant 
complete only part of the works as its not practical for a contractor to only tile approximately 
part of a wall for example and then guarantee just that part. Im not wholly convinced by that 
argument but, under the policy terms, if LV wants to offer a cash settlement it can do so. It 
offered Mrs S £1,124.50. However, as our investigator said, this quote included the wrong 
type of bath.
Mrs S provided a quote from her builder. This estimated the cost of repairs as £3,332.18, as 
follows:
Replacement bath £991.80
New tiles £940.38
Labour £1,400
I agree with LV that this isnt a like-for-like quote. The cost for new tiles appears to be for 
replacement of all tiles in the bathroom. This obviously increases the labour cost as well. I 
understand this is because the tile has been discontinued and Mrs S wants to re-tile the 
whole bathroom. I dont think LV has to pay for this full replacement. As set out above, Mrs S 
is covered only for the damage to the bath. LV agreed to pay for one row of tiles as these 
would need to be removed to remove the bath. I think this is fair. 
LV also said, The customers policy does state that in regards to cash settlements, we will 
not pay more than the amount we would have paid our supplier. So for us to consider a 
higher estimate from the customer I feel is unfair. 
Ive reviewed the relevant section of Mrs Ss policy booklet (Settling claims  buildings). 
This says, If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you 
choose not to have the item repaired or replaced, well not pay more than the amount we 
would have paid our supplier. 
But in this case, its LV  not Mrs S  who has chosen not to have the bath repaired. Mrs S is 
happy for F to do the work. So I dont think its reasonable for LV to rely on this term. And as 
things stand, Mrs S has shown that shes unable to have her bath replaced for the amount 
LV has offered. So I dont think LVs offer is fair. It should pay Mrs S an amount that will 
allow her to carry out the repairs that her insurance policy covers. 
Mrs S has already provided one quote. However, as Ive explained above, this was for more 
work than her insurance covers. Mrs S should ask her builder to revise this. That is, provide 
a quote for:
a new cast-iron bath; plusthe cost of removing the damaged bath and installing the new one. This should 
include the cost of removing and replacing one row of bathroom tiles.
I agree with our investigator that Mrs S should get three quotes in total. LV should pay Mrs S 
a cash settlement of the average of the three quotes, less her £100 policy excess. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I dont think LV needs to include VAT in the settlement. But it should pay 
the VAT added on to any work once Mrs S has shown shes paid it.
Finally, the circumstances in this case are difficult. Im very sorry to hear that Mrs Ss 
husbands is seriously ill. Because of this, Mrs S has told us she doesnt want contractors 
coming into her home. So I appreciate it may be some time before Mrs S is able to arrange 
the quotes. I hope LV understands this and will wait to settle Mrs Ss claim when she is able 
to get the three quotes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to offer Mrs S a cash settlement based on three quotes for repairs to her 
bath, less her £100 policy excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman