The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr H says Coventry Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr H took out a mortgage with Coventry in 1998. At the same time, he took out a PPI policy.
The policy covered him against being unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. The policy cost £26.03 per month and wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£550 for up to nine months in the event of a successful claim, this was amended to twelve 
months in 1999.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale took place during a meeting over 20 years ago. Where there is limited information, I 
will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account 
the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types 
of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr H has told us he was pressured to take out the policy. Mr H says he only wanted to get a 
mortgage but was put under pressure by the Coventry representative to buy the policy.
Pressure is a subjective issue, what one person regards as pressure another may not. For 
instance Mr H has told us he recalls the Coventry telling him that if he couldnt work his 
home would be repossessed. But Id expect a person applying for a mortgage to be told of 
the potential consequences of defaulting on the mortgage repayments, irrespective of 
whether PPI was sold.
Mr H  didnt know anything about PPI before he applied for the mortgage. Ive no doubt the 
Coventry representative would have told Mr H about the potential benefits of PPI during the 
discussion about the mortgage application, in the same way as Mr H would have been told 
DRN-1874356about other insurance such as life insurance and buildings cover. But that in itself in my view 
does not mean Mr H was pressured into taking the policy.
I also note that Mr Hs mortgage with Coventry was redeemed in August 2001. Yet Mr H 
continued to pay for the PPI policy by direct debit until February 2003 during which time it 
would have covered his new mortgage with a different lender. This suggests he valued the 
cover it gave him.
Weighing everything up I think its most likely Mr H was made aware the PPI was optional 
and he chose to take it out. And Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to make me think 
Coventry applied unfair pressure to sell the policy.
Coventry has told us it would not have given Mr H a personal recommendation to buy the 
policy, instead its told us it would have given Mr H information about the policy so he could 
decide for himself whether to buy it. From experience I think it is unlikely in 1998 that the 
Coventry representative would have given a personal recommendation.
That means Coventry didnt have to make sure the policy was right for Mr H but it did still 
have to give him clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy.
After so many years I cant know what information Mr H was given. So its possible that 
Coventry didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not enough to uphold 
this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr H would have changed his mind 
about buying the policy if he had been given better or clearer information. I cant say Mr H 
would have done. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr H was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, he 
didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And he wasnt in an 
unusual employment situation which might not have been covered. So he could have made 
a valid claim if hed have needed to.
Mr Hs employers wouldve paid him some sick pay if hed become too unwell to work. But 
this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 
nine months initially. This is likely longer than Mr Hs full sick pay would last. So, I still think 
Mr H wouldve found the benefit useful if he had become too unwell to work, particularly if he 
was unwell for a prolonged period.
And if Mr H lost his job the monthly benefit would mean he could use any redundancy pay or 
savings for other living costs.
And Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable, so any better information 
about the premiums is unlikely to have put Mr H off buying the policy.
I am aware Mr H feels strongly the policy was recommended to him. In this decision Ive 
found that its likely Coventry only gave him information about the policy. But, even if I had 
found that Coventry gave Mr H a personal recommendation I still would not have upheld this 
complaint. Thats because, for all the reasons Ive given in this decision, the policy appears 
to have been right for him. He had a need for the policy, he was eligible for the cover and 
was not caught by any of the exclusions contained in the policy terms.
In summary, I think its likely Coventry made Mr H aware the policy was optional, and he 
chose to buy it. And I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made 
him act differently and decline it.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman