DRN-2968024
The complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Miss B bought the policy in 2003, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Miss B and AXA a provisional decision on 7 July 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Bs store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. There 
was a brief overview of the policys purpose and cost, and Miss B was offered the choice to 
sign if she wanted PPI, or to leave the section blank if she didnt want it. Miss B signed 
specifically to buy PPI, separately to signing for the application as a whole.
Miss Bs representatives say the staff member filled in the form for her and she just signed 
where she was told to. Ive thought carefully about this. In order to fill out the form, the staff 
member would need to have discussed it with Miss B to get her personal details, contact 
details, additional cardholder details, and so on. So I think its most likely they discussed the 
section for PPI too  which offered Miss B a clear choice. Further, Im afraid there was an 
onus on Miss B to read what she was signing  and I think the paperwork made it clear the 
PPI was optional. Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time, 
nor anything which shows that Miss B was misled into buying it here. Overall, I think its most 
likely that AXA made Miss B aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so 
after so long.
AXA didnt give Miss B tailored advice about buying the insurance, so they didnt have to 
check whether it was right for her. They did have to give Miss B enough information to 
decide for herself whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Miss B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. Instead, the 
question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind.
Here, it looks like Miss B chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks she was eligible 
for the policy. And it would have paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more 
comprehensive cover  such as for when her work benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay. So the policy could have been useful for Miss B in case something went wrong.
Miss B did have a medical condition which might not have been covered. But from what her 
representatives have told us, her condition was controlled by regular medication and it hadnt 
caused her to be hospitalised or need any time off work. And by the time of the sale, Miss B 
had already been living with her condition for a good number of years. So she wouldve had 
a clear idea about how it affected her and wouldve seen that it hadnt caused her to take 
any time off work despite having it for a significant time. Its worth bearing in mind that this 
policy was there to cover extended time off sick. And from what weve been told, it doesnt 
sound like Miss Bs condition was likely to ever cause that, nor that it was likely to have been 
a key concern for her in choosing whether to buy PPI. Further, Miss B couldve still claimed 
for time off for other conditions, or if she lost her job. And it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the policys other key exclusions. So I still think the PPI couldve been 
useful for Miss B in her circumstances. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Miss B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 August 2021. But neither Miss B nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman