DRN-4327873
The complaint
Ms K complains about how QIC Europe Ltd considered and settled a contents insurance 
claim. 
QIC are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As QIC accept they are accountable for the actions of their 
agents, in my decision, any reference to QIC should be interpreted as also covering the 
actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Ms K and QIC and has taken place across 
a number of years. In my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the 
outcome that I have.
Ms K had a home insurance policy with QIC. In 2021, her property was damaged by a fire 
and she made a claim against her home insurance policy. QIC accepted and considered the 
claim (contents) and Ms K accepted a settlement of £35,000.
After shed accepted the settlement, Ms K disputed that shed been fully indemnified under 
the contents part of her policy. Specifically, she disputed that shed received payment for all 
damaged contents. She raised a complaint with QIC and as she remained unhappy with 
their response, she referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator 
most recently recommended that her complaint be upheld and as QIC didnt accept, the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Ms K has raised a number of complaints relating to this claim and referred some of those 
complaints to our Service. I need to be clear that my decision is only considering the points 
addressed by the final response letter dated 16 March 2023 and then referred to our 
Service. That final response letter from QIC addressed clothing in storage, dry cleaning 
costs and the overall settlement of the contents claim. 
QIC have referenced possible underinsurance - given that Ms K initially quoted her contents 
were estimated to be worth around £128,000, then £78,000 before she accepted the 
settlement of £35,000. My decision is not considering any impact of any underinsurance. 
The main focus of my decision will be whether QIC have fairly settled this claim. The fact 
that Ms K already accepted a settlement is irrelevant and not grounds for me to dismiss this 
complaint point. 
The purpose of this insurance policy was to indemnify Ms K in the event of an insured event 
taking place. In this case - a fire. Having carefully considered the evidence, Im reasonably 
satisfied that Ms K accepted the settlement offer in good faith, but has since alleged that it 
doesnt fully indemnify her. QIC are the experts in this contract of insurance with Ms K. They 
and their agents are expected to handle a claim efficiently and professionally. In this case, I 
find that much of the problems that now exist could have easily been avoided had a more 
thorough inventory of items being removed been kept - ideally, with photographic evidence.
The fairest way forward to bring this claim to a resolution is for QIC to validate each item 
being claimed for and show the full detail of their review to Ms K. In a recent response to our 
Service QIC said [Ms K] is attempting to claim for items that were already included within 
the full and final settlement. A full clear and transparent evidence based review will either 
allow 1- a fair settlement to be reached or 2- demonstrate with evidence that the offer 
previously made (£35,000) was fair. As things stand, the actions taken by QIC have 
achieved neither of these outcomes. Breakdowns have been provided by Ms K of what she 
believes is outstanding. This will be a good starting point. This will also allow QIC to 
demonstrate if theyve already indemnified Ms K for part of her contents claim. 
Ms K needs to be aware though, that if QIC have already indemnified her for specific items 
and can show clear evidence of such, they wouldnt be expected to indemnify her again for 
those same items. This would create betterment - which is not the purpose of this insurance 
policy. 
Ms K should take note that Im not making any direction to make a specific cash settlement 
amount in relation to this part of her claim. Ive simply concluded, on balance, that she has 
provided enough evidence to suggest that QIC may not have fairly reached the settlement 
amount she initially accepted  and they now need to reconsider it. 
Dry cleaning costs
Ms K has also disputed that she wasnt fully indemnified for dry cleaning costs. If this point is 
still outstanding, QIC need to reconsider these costs and if they can clearly show she has 
already been indemnified - no further action is needed. 
There has been a lot of back and forth communication in this claim. Subject to Ms K clearly 
providing evidence of her dry cleaning costs, QIC should reimburse her any outstanding 
costs (not already paid) and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date she made 
payment until the date any settlement is made
The wooden furniture
Ms K was told in an email between herself and QICs loss adjuster on 2 March 2022 that a 
specialist would look at wooden furniture items following redecoration works to see if they 
could be restored:
I would not remove the items that you had an emotional attachment to and would 
ask they are cleaned and when decoration is completed, I would attempt restoration 
at our cost however if they failed, then there would be no further payment for them 
and which you agreed..
I can confirm that we will not be instructing [third party company name removed by 
Ombudsman] until after redecoration has been carried out so as to prevent any 
further issues as to contamination and as we agreed.I disagree with QIC that they made it clear to Ms K that the settlement offered was instead of 
restoration works being attempted. If this point is still outstanding, QIC now need to arrange 
for this to happen.  
I note QIC offered to visit Ms Ks property but she objected. I need to make Ms K aware that 
a further visit may be required to help bring this part of her claim to a resolution. Should she 
not be agreeable, its unlikely this part of the claim will be able to move forward. 
How have QIC treated Ms K overall?
Ms K alleged that the loss adjuster pressured her into accepting the offer. Ive seen no 
evidence that persuasively supports this and pressure can be subjective. What feels like 
pressure to one customer, may not to another. Ive no doubt that the loss adjuster (on behalf 
of QIC) will have tried to be persuasive, but Ive to balance this off against him allowing Ms K 
to negotiate upwards the settlement amount and his notes refer to having tea and leaving on 
good terms. 
On balance, Ive seen nothing to allow me to fairly conclude that they acted in an 
inappropriate manner.
However, I agree with our Investigator that QICs actions in handling this claim (overall) have 
caused avoidable trouble, upset and frustration for Ms K across a long period of time. 
Overall, I find the £200 recommended by them to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances of this complaint.   
Putting things right
In summary, Im directing QIC Europe Ltd to reconsider the main part of the content claims  
(subject to the policy terms and limits) and validate each item being claimed for and show 
the full detail of their review to Ms K. Should she have not been indemnified for any items, 
cash settle the outstanding amount (above the £35,000 already offered) and add 8% simple 
interest per annum on any amounts owed from the date she initially accepted the settlement 
of £35,000 until the date any updated settlement amount is paid to her.
QIC Europe Ltd also need to now pay any outstanding dry cleaning costs arising out of this 
claim that she can produce reasonable proof of. 8% simple interest per annum should also 
be added to any amounts owed from the date she made payment until the date any 
settlement is paid to her.  
QIC Europe Ltd need to arrange for the attempted restoration of the wooden furniture 
reference above to happen. 
Finality, QIC need to pay Ms K £200 in recognition of how theyve handled this claim overall.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman