DRN-4287283
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the settlement hes been offered by West Bay Insurance Plc
(West Bay) after his car was deemed a total loss.
What happened
Whilst parked, Mr Ms vehicle was damaged by a third-party vehicle, so he made a claim to
West Bay, his car insurance provider.
West Bay considered the car a total loss. They initially offered a settlement of £6,299 but
Mr M was unhappy with this as he said the car was worth £18,000+ so he would like the
claim settlement increased to £18,000. West Bay didnt agree but did increase the
settlement offer to £10,814.
As Mr M remained unhappy with the settlement offer, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said West Bays
settlement offer was reasonable, so she didnt recommend it be increased.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. So, Im issuing 
a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
Mr Ms insurance policy with West Bay outlines that in the event of total loss they will 
pay the market value of the vehicle. This is defined in the policy as:
Market Value
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of loss or damage 
compared with one of the same make, model, specification and condition. If 
the insured vehicle was first registered as new in a country other than those 
contained within the geographical limits any assessment of market value will 
take into account that the car has been individually imported into a country 
contained within the geographical limits but will not include any delivery costs 
incurred at the time of importation. The market value will be assessed by an 
automotive engineer in conjunction with the published trade guides at the time 
of loss.
In West Bays final response, they said they had relied on two market valuation 
guides to reach their initial settlement offer of £6,299. But as Mr M was unhappy with 
this, theyd increased the offer to £10,814.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that the approach of this service is to rely on the 
trade guides when obtaining a valuation. So, she said the approach taken by West 
Bay was fair. And as West Bay had increased the offer to above what the trade 
guides had said, she said the settlement was fair.
Our investigator was correct in her explanation of our general approach to motor 
valuation disputes. We usually first consider what the trade guides say. The guides 
are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. The guides also 
take into account regional variations and their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures.
However, despite what West Bay said in their final response, they didnt actually use 
the trade guides to obtain the initial valuation. Because of the age of the vehicle, the 
trade guides were unable to provide a valuation. So instead, West Bay relied on 
online adverts for similar vehicles they found, in the range of £6-7,500.
Mr M provided online adverts too, but for considerably higher amounts. So West Bay
increased their offer to in between the higher and lower adverts.
Obtaining a valuation for an older vehicle which doesnt appear in the trade guides 
isnt an exact science, and all the information that can be obtained needs to be taken 
into account. For example, online adverts for similar vehicles, expert reports, 
independent valuations and any other information which can be obtained.
Mr M says his vehicle is worth around £18,000. He says the adverts West Bay relied 
on werent vehicles which were similar to his, not least because he had his vehicle 
restored in the ten years hes owned it, along with maintaining it to a high standard. 
This isnt Mr Ms daily vehicle, instead its part of his collection. And having seen pre-
loss images of the car, it does look to be in very good condition, and well cared for by 
Mr M.
The difficulty I have though in obtaining a valuation is that it doesnt feature in the 
trade guides. And online adverts vary hugely in price. From various online searches 
Ive completed from well-known vehicle advertising sites, they can range from 
£4-6,000 up to £30-40,000. So, there isnt an average or even in the range of price, 
and the production year of the vehicle and the mileage doesnt seem to have much 
bearing on where, in that wide range of prices, the vehicle is.So, putting an approximate valuation based on adverts is difficult to do. This is 
reflected in West Bay finding adverts in the range of £6-7,000, whereas Mr M valuing 
his vehicle, and providing examples, at a considerably higher amount.
But as I say, Mr Ms vehicle does appear to be well looked after, and hes explained 
he had it restored and has owned it many years taking it to events and shows. Mr M 
has asked for £18,000, which is around the mid-way between vehicles advertised 
online, either in much worse condition and near the lower end of prices, to mint 
condition with very low mileage towards the upper end of prices.
In addition, Mr M has also provided a letter from the director of a car dealership who 
appear to specialise in classic and prestige vehicles  which Mr Ms vehicle is, who 
said:
I can confirm that I inspected and road-tested the above car at the end of 
Summer 2022 as a potential part-exchange against another vehicle we had in 
stock.
At the time, we considered the true retail value of the car to be a conservative
£20,000.00.
We offered (Mr M) £17,000 as a trade purchase, but our offer was refused.
Due to the current time of year, and the seasonal nature of the car, we would 
now consider the true retail value to be £22,000.
Having taken all the information Ive seen into account, Im persuaded, on balance, 
that the amount Mr M has asked for  in the mid-range of other vehicles available 
and in the range of what the dealership said - is a fair reflection of the valuation of his 
vehicle. Without anything to demonstrate why the amount should be much lower, or 
indeed much higher, I think £18,000 is a fair and reasonable valuation in the 
circumstances. So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to 
provisional decision, Ill be directing West Bay to increase the settlement to a total of 
£18,000 before excess deduction.
In addition, unless anything changes, Ill also be directing West Bay to add 8% simple
interest to the additional settlement amount from when the original settlement was 
made to the date of payment of the remainder.
With any claim there will be inconvenience. Mr M has needed to correspond with 
West Bay and their appointed agents to try to negotiate a fair settlement. Hes 
provided evidence in support of his position as requested by West Bay, but despite 
this, I do think the offer made by West Bay was far too low for the reasons Ive 
explained.
West Bay couldve easily explored, as I have, the wide-ranging values available, but 
it seems they have simply focussed solely on the low end despite all the information 
Mr M presented in support of his position. Had West Bay researched further, its likely 
a higher, fairer, settlement wouldve been reached. So, Im also minded to direct 
West Bay to pay Mr M £150 for the service hes received and the additional 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Therefore, I said that I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct West Bay to 
increase the settlement (pre excess deduction) to £18,000, to add 8% simple interest to the 
difference and to pay Mr M £150 compensation.The responses to my provisional decision 
Mr M responded to the provisional decision and said he was in agreement with it.
West Bay responded but they didnt agree. They said the examples seen online had different 
mileage or different years of manufacture and therefore the higher value examples should be 
disregarded. They also referred to previous examples Mr M provided. And they provided 
additional adverts which they say are similar vehicles.
West Bay disagreed that the mileage of the vehicles seen online doesnt have much bearing 
and referred to specific examples. They said if they added some of the specific examples to 
previous examples both they and Mr M provided, the average would be lower than £18,000.
Additionally, West Bay also said that when taking out the policy, Mr M asked for an agreed 
value option of £25,000 to be added to the cover, but then didnt complete the necessary 
paperwork so there wasnt an agreed value in place. They said if Mr M had done this, the 
market value now would be irrelevant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
Firstly, I acknowledge West Bays comments that Mr M originally asked for an agreed value 
policy, but didnt complete the paperwork, and therefore the valuation of £25,000 wasnt 
agreed under the policy. I recognise that, which is why Im considering market value, in line 
with the terms of the policy Mr M has. I also havent said West Bay should pay £25,000 
either.
I note West Bays comments on the adverts, the examples they provided, and what they 
deem to be market value. However, I explained in my provisional decision that where the 
market valuation guides cant obtain valuations, which is relevant here, all the information 
that can be obtained needs to be taken into account. Such as online adverts for similar 
vehicles, expert reports, independent valuations and any other information obtained.
The examples I provided were to illustrate the point that the values hugely vary. And my view 
remains that it doesnt necessarily appear, more generally, that if the vehicle is newer, or 
with lower milage, it will always attract a higher value. There are examples of older vehicles 
with higher mileage attracting a higher value than those which are newer with lower mileage. 
So, as I say, putting an exact value on the vehicle isnt possible.
But as I also explained in my provisional decision, Mr Ms vehicle isnt his daily car. Instead, 
it is a car which he has taken to shows, as part of the manufacturer of the car owner club. 
Whilst it does have a higher (but still below average) mileage, in the ten years Mr M has 
owned the car, hes had it restored and maintained, and hes provided a portfolio of 
information to West Bay to show some of the work thats been carried out. And having seen 
images, it does look to be in very good condition, and well maintained by Mr M, as part of his 
collection.I also referred to a letter written by a director of a car dealership who specialises in classic 
and prestige vehicles, which Mr Ms is. And they have given their view on the value, 
including confirming what they actually offered Mr M for the vehicle as a trade offer. And I 
find this persuasive given they would have offered a value in line with what it was worth and 
also taken into account a slight deduction for a trade value.
So, whilst determining an exact value isnt possible, having taken into account all the other 
available information available, Im still satisfied £18,000 is a fair and reasonable value in all 
the circumstances of the case, for the reasons outlined above and in my provisional 
decision. So, Im directing West Bay to increase the settlement amount (pre-excess 
deduction) to £18,000. 
Im also directing West Bay to add 8% simple interest to the additional amount due, from the 
date the first settlement was paid to the date of payment of the remainder. And Im also 
satisfied £150 compensation is fair in the circumstances for the reasons outlined in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Increase the settlement to £18,000 before excess deduction
Add 8% simple interest to the additional settlement amount from date of the original
settlement payment to date of the additional payment
Pay Mr M £150 compensation
*If West Bay Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman