DRN-2004580
The complaint
Miss G complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Miss G took out a store card in 2003. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at 
the same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Miss G £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Miss G was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld because Miss G told us 
she suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. As the policy had 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions our adjudicator thought that if this had 
been drawn to Miss Gs attention then she wouldnt have taken the policy out.
AXA didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Although AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G (so they didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Miss G) they still had to provide Miss G with clear 
information about the policy so that she could make an informed decision about whether or 
not to take the policy out. In particular, this included drawing Miss Gs attention to the main 
exclusions and restrictions in the policy at the time of the sale so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take the policy out. Importantly in this case, the 
policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions so these should have been drawn 
to Miss Gs attention. 
Ive looked at the documents from the time of the sale and I cant see that at the time when 
Miss G was asked to make a selection for PPI that these exclusions or restrictions were 
drawn to her attention. When she completed the form there was no reference to where she 
could find these exclusions. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the representative at 
the time of the sale would have been instructed to highlight these terms.
Miss G has told us that she suffered from a medical condition at the time of the sale and had 
suffered from it since she was a teenager. Although she wasnt formally diagnosed until 
some years later, Miss G has provided us with an account of how long she had suffered from 
this condition before the diagnosis, how it affected her and why she hadnt mentioned this 
previously. I have no reason to doubt what Miss G has told us about her medical condition.
AXA say that Miss G would have been able to make a claim for this condition under the 
policy as it wouldnt have been classed as a pre-existing medical condition (since she wasnt 
diagnosed with it until 2014). But I dont agree that this would necessarily have been the 
case. This is because the terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions in the policy 
document Ive seen are drawn much more widely than this and include conditions which 
Miss G would reasonably have known about at the time of sale. So I dont think the policy 
wouldve paid out if Miss G was off work sick because of this condition. 
I think that if Miss Gs attention had been drawn to the exclusions relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions as it should have been then she wouldnt have taken the policy out. This 
is because it wouldnt have provided good value for money in her circumstances.
So I think Miss G was mis-sold this PPI policy.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. AXA should find out how much Miss G would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss G owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Miss G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Miss G would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
G paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss G 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 15% a year 
until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C. AXA should tell Miss G what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give   
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Miss Gs complaint against AXA France IARD and require them to pay Miss G the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman