DRN-3440994
The complaint and what happened
Ms C complains Bank of Scotland plc wont reimburse her for money she lost when falling 
victim to a bank impersonation scam. 
In November 2021, Ms C received a call from someone pretending to be her bank. She was 
told her account was at risk, as someone had gone into branch and attempted to steal her 
ID; that there had been multiple attempts on her accounts from abroad but that it was 
probably a single person behind this. The caller explained Ms Cs account with the bank was 
at risk and so funds would need to be transferred into a temporary fictitious account. The 
caller warned Ms C that the transfers would likely be blocked, she would need to speak with 
bank staff, and tell untruths all to help with catching a criminal staffer. 
Ms C was told to transfer £25,000 to an account with another banking provider, using the 
name of someone she was to pretending was her daughter. She was told to tell the bank the 
money was to be used towards a house purchase. Over the next couple of days Ms C was 
told other accounts with other providers were at risk and was persuaded to send more 
money. Over the course of three days, Ms C sent £75,000 in three lots of £25,000 payments. 
Becoming more suspicious, Ms C realised shed been conned and decided to go to branch 
where the scam was fully realised. She complained as she felt the bank ought to have done 
more to protect her. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold her complaint as she hadnt answered 
questions asked correctly when each of the payments were paused before allowing them to 
proceed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She found Ms C had been obstructive, 
and the bank was unable to provide an effective warning. She also didnt think Ms C had a 
reasonable basis for belief after the bank had provided a scam warning. 
Ms C has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She believes the bank 
ought to have done far more to protect her and if it had asked more probing questions, shes 
sure the scam would have unravelled. She says she also did believe she was speaking with 
her bank and so doesnt accept she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in what she did.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment services provider to reimburse its customer 
even though the payment was authorised. 
In considering this, I have taken account of whether the bank ought to have reimbursed Ms 
C under the provisions of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM), and whether it ought to have done more to protect her from potential financial harm 
from fraud or scams. The CRM also places a level of care on Ms C, and so I have 
considered whether she met this. 
The CRM Code
The CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of authorised push payment scams, like this, in all but limited circumstances. It is 
for the bank to establish that one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code applies. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
oThe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
oThe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
oThe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
Was there an effective warning? 
The CRM Code says that where Firms identify APP scam risk in a Payment Journey, they 
should take reasonable steps to provide their Customers with Effective Warnings, which 
should include appropriate actions for those Customers to take to protect themselves from 
APP Scams. As a minimum the CRM Code sets out that an effective warning should be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
The bank stopped the first payment from going through. And it was for the very reason that it 
felt the payment had a high risk of being fraudulent, that the payment was stopped. This 
shows that the bank had initially identified a scam risk in the payment journey. Ms C was 
required to call the bank to discuss the payment before it was allowed to be made. 
When questioned about the payment, Ms C told the bank she was making a payment to her 
daughter as she was helping with a house purchase; this had been discussed and agreed 
with family over the summer. Throughout the call, Ms C was very calm and collected. She 
answered all of the questions clearly and concisely, and without prevarication.  And when 
asked about how the bank details were given, Ms C confirmed this had been during a phone 
call earlier in the day. 
But none of that was true. Ms C wasnt making a payment to her daughter but had been told 
her accounts were at risk. I appreciate Ms C was coached to answer the questions in the 
way she did, and banks are aware that this happens. But I find nothing in the way the 
answers were given, or what those answers were, that ought to have meant the bank should 
have remained on notice Ms C might still have been at risk. This was particularly so when 
the bank asked Ms C to confirm she hadnt been contacted or told to lie to them, or move 
money from the account for any reason; and that she was making the transaction of her own 
instruction and not because someone else had convinced her thats what she needed to do. 
The bank asked the questions it did for the very reason of identifying and/or trying to stop Ms 
C falling victim to a fraud or scam. Im satisfied the bank took reasonable steps to provide an 
effective warning, but because of what it was told, and the answers given, it was prevented 
from doing so. 
Under the CRM Code, Ms C might still be entitled to some reimbursement, if Im satisfied 
she had a reasonable basis for belief. It isnt enough that Ms C believed what she was told 
or that she needed to follow the steps she did because she thought she was speaking with her bank  she had to have a reasonable basis for that belief. And she had to have that for 
each of the payments made. 
Having considered this very carefully and realising this will be very disappointing for Ms C, I 
dont find she did. I say this because:
Ms C was given a number of reasons as to why her accounts were at risk; someone 
had been in branch pretending to be her with photo ID and that people from abroad 
were trying to access her account. Ms C also says she was told shed need to tell 
untruths because they were trying to catch a criminal staffer. But which is it? Either 
someone had been in branch, or someone had tried to access the account from 
abroad, or they were trying to catch a member of staff that was involved in criminal 
activity. It doesnt reasonably seem to me that all of these can be true. And if 
someone had been in branch pretending to be her, then presumably that person was 
already identifiable by staff or any CCTV. 
Ms C was told that her account was at risk and that a fake account was going to be 
set up, but that it wasnt real and no actual transfers of money would take place. 
However, the caller also told her that fake account would be with another bank. I 
havent been provided with any reasonable explanation as to why Bank of Scotland 
would need to set up a fake account with another well-known high-street bank. And 
if a new account hadnt really been set up, then I question how the steps Ms C was 
taking were meant to keep her money safe.  
Ms C was required to call the bank as the first payment was paused pending further 
discussions about it. During this call, Ms C was asked to confirm she hadnt been told 
to lie and that she was making the payment on her own instruction and not because 
someone else had convinced her to make the payment. However, that was exactly 
what had happened; she had been told to lie and she had been convinced by 
someone else to make the payment.  So even if I found that Ms C had a reasonable 
basis for belief when initially taking the call from her bank I find she no longer did 
when the bank intervened on the first payment. 
Before making the second payment, Ms C was told an account with another provider 
was also at risk. But there hasnt been plausible reason provided as to how Bank of 
Scotland would know that an account with another provider would also be at risk. 
Furthermore, why would it be a good idea to move money from one compromised 
account to another? I havent been provided any evidence to show how Ms C 
satisfied herself this was a legitimate explanation. 
The second payment was also paused for an intervention by the bank. During this 
call Ms C was specifically questioned about whether she had been called by 
someone pretending to be the bank and told her account had been hacked or its 
compromised or that she has to move her money. She was also asked to confirm 
whether anyone had been in touch and asked her to move her money or was told to 
lie to the bank. She was warned that once the money was gone there was little 
chance of it being recovered. Despite this being the exact scenario Ms C was 
experiencing, I havent been provided with any evidence of any additional steps she 
took to ensure what she was doing was legitimate.  
Ms C made these payments over three days. But I havent been provided with any 
plausible reason as to why it was sensible for Ms Cs money to remain in her 
accounts for that time period, if they were at risk, as she was led to believe. 
The third payment was also paused pending an intervention by the bank. And Ms C 
was asked similar questions again about the payment and whether it was being 
made of her own volition or she had been told to lie about it. Again Ms C confirmed 
not.  Overall, taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded Ms C had a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the payments from her account. Every single payment was stopped for 
further questioning. And despite the calls being handled by three different staff members, all 
of which made the fraud risk clear, none of what Ms C was told made her pause or question 
the legitimacy of what she was doing. 
I have also thought about whether the payments were unusual and uncharacteristic such 
that they looked suspicious, and so the bank ought to have paused them pending further 
enquiries. But as can be seen from the above, the bank did stop each of the payments Ms C 
made as it had identified a high risk of fraud. It asked Ms C questions about the payments 
and made it clear it would be concerned if she had been told to lie, or she wasnt making the 
payment under her own instruction. And as noted above, Ms C was very calm and collected 
during the call, not someone who appeared under duress or was panicking about what was 
happening. In such circumstances, the bank was entitled to rely on what Ms C told it in good 
faith; that she had discussions with family about lending money to her daughter to buy a 
property.   
Finally, I can see the bank did take steps to recover the funds. Although this appears to be 
the day after the scam was reported, its highly unlikely any funds would have remained had 
the bank been in touch with recipient bank any sooner  in such scams the money is almost 
always moved away immediately. 
For the reasons given, Im satisfied Ms C isnt due a refund under the CRM code. And I find 
no basis on which to say the bank should have done more, given the steps it took during the 
payments. I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation in which Ms C finds herself, 
and I do recognise she has been the victim of a cruel scam. But I make no award against the 
bank.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman