DRN-3753584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about the service provided and repairs carried out by Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to Mr Ks mobile phone under their home contents 
insurance policy.
In this decision, reference to RSA includes its agents, representatives and contractors.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out home contents and personal possessions insurance in late April 
2022. In early May 2022, Mr K unfortunately dropped his mobile telephone down the side of 
the reclining part of the sofa and it became stuck in the mechanism. He managed to get the 
phone out, but the glass at the back was cracked. Mr K took the telephone to a local repair 
shop to attempt to have it repaired. Having then reported the matter to RSA however, it 
agreed to repair the phone under the insurance policy, and it arranged for collection.
Mr K was unhappy with the way the claim was handled and lack of communication by RSA. 
He also had concerns that the phone was refurbished rather than repaired as the model and 
serial number changed. He also said that it no longer charged properly. Finally, Mr K was 
unhappy that RSA had been paid the excess amount of £150 twice.
RSA accepted that the handling of the case could have been better and offered £218 in 
compensation to Mr and Mrs K. RSA didnt agree that it had issued Mr K with a refurbished 
phone. RSA offered to look into any on-going issues with the phone. It didnt consider it was 
responsible for the excess amount being paid twice however.
Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and referred it to our 
service. Initially, it was our investigators view that RSA needed to replace Mr Ks phone with 
a new one as RSA had failed to provide evidence to support its position. RSA then provided 
detailed information and our investigator reviewed the matter. Her revised view was that 
RSA had acted fairly and reasonably and that it had provided a clear explanation of the 
repair work carried out and she therefore didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator 
thought that the offer of £218 compensation was reasonable and in line with the services 
usual awards in such situations. 
Mr and Mrs K remain unhappy about the outcome of their complaint and the matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to determine is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions of 
the relevant policy in a fair and reasonable manner and, if not, whether the compensation it 
paid for various service issues was fair and reasonable. Having carefully considered all the 
submissions and evidence, Ive concluded that RSA hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
its response to Mr and Mrs K.
My starting point in this determination is to look at the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
note that RSA appears to have accepted that the relevant policy covered accidental damage 
to contents and personal possessions and processed the claim on this basis. The relevant 
policy states that RSA will decide whether to settle your claim by: repairing; replacing; or by 
making a cash payment in respect of the damaged contents. We will repair or replace the 
contents where we can. The policy stated that if RSA offered to repair or replace the 
contents, this would be through its network of suppliers. 
I turn firstly to Mr and Mrs Ks evidence regarding the matter. Mr K said that at the outset, he 
simply wanted to have his mobile phone repaired in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of his insurance policy. However, he said he had to complain several times 
because of delays and he provided comprehensive information as to the detail of these 
complaints. He also said he was made to feel like a criminal because of the claim validation 
process which he hadnt been told about. He received an unannounced call from a separate 
company which had required a telephone interview, even though he no longer had his 
telephone.
He said he was originally told the process would take five to seven days. It ended up taking 
five weeks. Mr K also thought he got back a totally different phone which was a clone, with 
a different model and serial number. He said it feels likes phone is someone else's Mr K 
now wanted RSA to supply him with a new phone of the same model and specification as 
the one which was damaged and which he said was worth £1,300 phone, or indeed an 
updated version. As an alternative, he wanted a one-off cash settlement of £2,000. He also 
wanted reimbursement for a phone and credit hed had to buy whilst waiting for his own 
phone to be repaired and which he needed for the telephone interview. He furthermore 
wanted to receive an apology and compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
He mentioned that he would go to the manufacturer to have his phone vetted in order to 
pursue this matter.
Finally, Mr K also complained that it took five days for the second payment of his excess to 
be reimbursed and hed had to borrow money as a result.
In response, RSA upheld Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. It said it had instructed its 
electrical experts to deal with the claim and to repair the phone if possible. Due to recent 
inception of the policy, it said that the claim was also automatically transferred to a company 
for further investigation. RSA accepted that the experts failed to collect the phone as 
arranged and that Mr K had been inconvenienced as a result. Once the investigators had 
completed investigations, it said that authorisation was then given for the repair to proceed.
RSA said that the experts had explained that they were approved by the manufacturer and 
used genuine parts. They had replaced the rear logic board and back, whilst it hadnt 
changed the camera and the front remained the same.  As this was a new logic board, it 
meant the phone had a new serial number. It noted that Mr K intended to approach the 
manufacturers for their comments on this. RSA accepted that Mr K was understandably 
unhappy with the overall service received from its suppliers, as well as the time it took RSA 
to respond to the complaint. RSA accepted for instance that Mr K had contacted the experts 
several times to pay the excess. It apologised for its failings and offered compensation of 
£218 in total, made up of £50 for the missed visit, £100 for general delays and £68 for the 
replacement phone Mr K had bought.As to the double payment of the excess, RSA noted that the first payment failed to process 
and that the payment was only successful on the second attempt. It said that Mr Ks bank 
was holding the first amount in pending transactions.
Finally, RSA noted Mr Ks view that the phone now doesnt work as well as it originally did. It 
said that the experts hadnt been made aware of this but were happy to re-inspect the 
phone, but this meant they would have to arrange collection. It also offered an alternative for 
Mr K to ask the manufacturer to send RSA any inspection report for it to consider further.
Having carefully considered the available evidence and submissions of both parties, I 
provide my reasons for not upholding this complaint and deal with each element of the 
complaint under separate headings as follows: -
Terms and Conditions
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I note that RSA is entitled to decide 
whether to repair or replace an item that has been damaged. In the circumstances I cant 
say that RSA applied the policy unfairly or unreasonably in opting to repair the phone. It has 
not been demonstrated on the balance of probabilities that the phone unit here was 
incapable of being repaired.
The Returned Unit
The evidence provided by RSA shows that it has accepted that the model/serial number of 
the phone changed. Ive seen no evidence or expert report to suggest that this wasnt the 
same base unit as the original however and RSA has provided a detailed explanation as to 
how this occurred. Mr K indicated that he would be contacting the manufacturer to arrange 
for vetting, however there is no further expert evidence which goes against the explanation 
provided by RSA. In the absence of any other expert evidence, I therefore find RSAs 
explanation to be persuasive. In the circumstances, Im satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr Ks original phone was repaired and returned to him by RSA.
Standard of Repair.
I note that Mr K says that his phone no longer charges properly. I also note however that 
RSA has offered to look into any further issues that Mr K may be experiencing, and I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances. I appreciate that its 
frustrating for Mr K that he will be without his phone again whilst any such issues are 
investigated and addressed by RSA. Mr K had paid for a temporary phone which was 
covered as part of the overall compensation amount offered by RSA and I agree that the 
availability of this second phone should mitigate some of the inconvenience.
The Excess Payment
I note that the initial excess payment of £150 wasnt processed. A second payment was 
successful, however it took a few days for the initial payment to be released by Mr Ks bank. 
I consider that this was likely to be a matter outside RSAs control. Ive received no evidence 
to suggest that RSA tried to retain both payments of £150.
Service issues
RSA required the claim to be validated and this is normal practice to safeguard the claims 
process. I agree with Mr K however that the way in which it happened wasnt helpful. RSA 
however accepted service failures in its communication and in keeping appointments. The 
issue for determination is whether the compensation of £218 which RSA offered to Mr and Mrs K amounted to fair and reasonable compensation to recognise the various service 
failures. Unfortunately, there is always a degree of inconvenience where a personal item is 
lost or damaged. The question for me to consider is to what extent the insurance service 
failures added to that stress and inconvenience. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K have 
been through a frustrating series of events, in this case Im satisfied that the offer of £218 is 
fair and in line with our usual awards in such circumstances. 
In conclusion I cant say that RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in deciding to repair Mr 
Ks phone, in returning the same unit and in offering to provide further support to remedy any 
on-going issues. I agree with Mr and Mrs K that RSA has been responsible for service 
failures and RSA has accepted responsibility for these. Nevertheless, I cant say that its 
apology and financial response to these failures have been unfair or unreasonable. It has 
offered to pay £218 in compensation to Mr K and I expect this sum to be paid promptly 
following the issue of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons and subject to the compensation award referenced above, I dont intend to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
to do any more in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman