DRN-2843529
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Share Centre Limited (TSC) caused a delay in transferring his 
ISA, which in turn led to him suffering a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr D held an investment ISA with Invesco Perpetual, for which the administration and 
servicing was passed to TSC in 2017. 
In January 2020, Mr D met with an adviser from Succession Wealth and agreed to transfer 
his existing TSC ISA to Successions platform. On 12 February 2020, TSC confirmed to 
Succession that it had received Mr Ds signed transfer documentation (dated 27 January 
2020) on 7 February 2020. 
However, Mr D then didnt hear anything further from TSC. So, on 18 March 2020 
Succession enquired about the delay by placing another call to TSC. Mr D says it was told 
that a letter had been issued to him already dated 19 February 2020 with the relevant 
instructions  but Mr D says he didnt receive any such letter.  
Mr D says Succession emailed TSC again on 23 March 2020 to chase the letter and a copy 
was issued, with TSC telling it that the letter should arrive within three working days. 
Mr D received the 19 February 2020 letter on 25 March 2020. It said the Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directive II (MiFID II) requirements meant that it needed additional identification 
from Mr D before it could complete the transfer. Mr D therefore called again and confirmed 
the missing information (his nationality). He was advised the transfer would now take place 
as soon as possible.  
On 15 April 2020, Mr D received another letter from TSC. It said that there was an 
outstanding £25 transfer charge which remained unpaid as there were insufficient funds in 
his cash account  and the transfer could not be completed until this was settled. Mr D then 
called TSC and lodged a complaint.  
On 29 April 2020, Mr D sent TSC a cheque for £24.08 to cover the outstanding ISA transfer 
charge. The transfer was then completed on 1 May 2020. A closing balance of £27,553 was 
transferred to Succession. 
TSC replied to the complaint two weeks later and upheld it. It said that it should have 
arranged the sale of Mr Ds stock in a timely fashion once he had provided the updated 
identifier information on 25 March 2020. Instead, the sale was delayed and eventually sold 
on 1 May 2020. TSC fully accepted that this delay was avoidable and it should therefore 
ensure that Mr D had not been disadvantaged in any way. 
TSC said if it had sold the stock within an acceptable time frame of two working days (so, on 
27 March 2020) it would have achieved 184.846 pence per unit. However, when it sold the 
same stock for Mr D on 1 May it achieved a considerably higher value of 217.000 pence per 
unit. So, it passed on this gain to Mr D, which meant that instead of receiving £23,470.26 
from the sale it credited Mr Ds account with £27,553.10 - an additional £4,082.84. As an 
apology for the delay, TSC also waived Mr Ds transfer fee and sent the cheque back to him. 
Mr D disagreed, and referred his complaint to this service. He said this transfer had been 
one of a number of different ISA transfers as he had recently retired and wanted to 
consolidate his investments, hence he sought advice from Succession. All of the other ISA 
transfers were completed in February 2020. If TSC had acted as it should have, this ISA 
would have transferred with the others onto Successions platform on 3 March 2020.  
He also said that TSC had his National Insurance (NI) number  and therefore it should 
have ascertained his British nationality from that, without delaying matters further, since it is 
an identifier for United Kingdom nationals. If TSC had been legally required to obtain or 
reconfirm relevant data then it could have asked him for it in 2018  as it was, TSC carried 
on actively operating his investment prior to the transfer request.  
Finally, Mr D said he had worked out the value of his ISA if the transfer value had been 
invested with Succession on 3 March 2020 and split across his two chosen funds. And by his 
calculation, he had lost over £8,300.  
An investigator considered the complaint, but he did not think it should succeed. He said that 
neither party disputed that TSC was responsible for delays from 25 March 2020 until 1 May 
2020, as it had accepted liability for that. Though Mr D felt TSC should also be responsible 
for delays from 7 February 2020, the investigator disagreed. He said TSC was entitled to 
satisfy regulatory requirements and it did not have record of Mr Ds nationality.  
The investigator also considered that TSC wasnt responsible for the safe delivery of the 
letter. It had shown evidence that it was sent on 19 February 2020 and he didnt think it 
could be asked to do anything more. He therefore agreed with TSC that it had caused 
unreasonable delays but these were from 25 March 2020 onwards.  
He also found that Mr D had benefitted financially from TSCs actions. If it had completed the 
transfer earlier (as it should have done) then the value of the units in Mr Ds ISA would have 
been lower. While his calculations differed from TSC (because he then went further and 
considered what Succession would have done with the ISA proceeds), the investigator said 
Mr Ds new ISA value would still not have increased as much as the increase in the existing 
fund. TSC had passed the gain to Mr D, and the investigator said that was reasonable.  
Mr D said he accepted that he did benefit from TSCs delay once he had confirmed his 
nationality. However, the fact remained that this gain was significantly less than the loss 
incurred as a result of the transfer not being actioned in February as the value of the two 
new funds was previously far higher. He also submitted that it could be the case that his 
nationality was omitted from the records sent from Invesco Perpetual to TSC in 2017.  
Finally, he said that TSC wrote to him on 29 March 2018 regarding a purchase of units which 
could not go ahead as MiFID II had recently come into place. That letter invited Mr D to go to 
its online portal and supply the relevant identifier details to satisfy the rules  that being one 
or all of, his date of birth, nationality and NI number. Mr D says he called TSC and gave the 
required information, meaning TSC should have record of the call.  
Despite searching through all records of call recordings on the relevant numbers supplied by 
Mr D, TSC did not have any record of Mr D having called in 2018 to provide identity 
information. Our investigator was therefore not persuaded to change his view.  
Mr D maintained that TSC could have been responsible for the 19 February 2020 letter 
going missing. To that end, he asked to review a copy of TSCs records relating to the letter and for confirmation about the duplicate letter. Again, our investigator said he was not willing 
to change his view - he felt the record was sufficient evidence that the first letter was sent.      
Mr D also said that he wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He made a 
number of further submissions. I havent repeated all of the comments in full, but I have read 
these in their entirety. He said, in summary:
TSC did hold the appropriate documentation  it had his NI number;
he never had an online account, so couldnt have updated TSC that way;
if TSCs records were compliant with Financial Conduct Authority requirements, the 
transfer could have gone ahead right away;
since the inception of MiFID II, TSC has carried out a dividend reinvestment  it did 
this knowing it didnt have the complete identifier information and therefore must 
have breached the FCA rules anyway;
the claim that TSC sent the original letter of 19 February 2020 cannot be relied upon, 
because it cannot provide evidence of other records, such as the call Mr D made in 
2018 relating to the MiFID II identifier information;
TSC has supplied no evidence of the issue of a duplicate letter;
it has also shown it has poor record keeping;
just because a system entry was made doesnt mean a letter was issued;
TSC only has record of one letter being issued, not two;
the second letter had no cover note to indicate it was a duplicate;
the final response to the complaint was insufficient;
the handling of the complaint and TSCs responses to the Financial Ombudsman 
Services investigation gives Mr D no confidence in TSC to have acted fairly; 
it cannot be ruled out that the 19 February 2020 letter wasnt sent to another 
consumer by mistake (by being erroneously included in another envelope);
TSCs terms of business state that it will complete ISA transfers within 30 days  as 
reflected on the relevant government website;
a letter of November 2017 confirms that TSC will use a NI number as a client 
identifier, and TSC already had this information;
online reviews of TSC show customers have these types of delay issues;
TSC sent the correspondence in franked, undated envelopes so a customer cannot 
establish when letters are sent.  
TSC had no other comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both TSC and our 
service. I also note hes supplied detailed comments of his view on the complaint. Whilst Im 
sorry this wont be what Mr D has hoped for, I dont believe this complaint should succeed.
I wont be addressing each point raised, as my remit is to make findings on what I believe to 
be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances. I will therefore set out what I 
consider are the central issues in this complaint. In summary, my findings are:
at the time Succession lodged Mr Ds ISA transfer request, TSC did not have the 
complete required identifier information for Mr D;
it cannot be said with any certainty as to why this information (namely Mr Ds 
nationality) was incomplete as there is no conclusive evidence that it was supplied;
I realise Mr D has shown how TSC wrote to him in 2018 to request the relevant 
information to be supplied on an online portal  but he did not do this;
instead, Mr D says he called TSC and whilst I have no reason to doubt his 
recollection, it has searched its full call records from a period of two months for all 
five of the telephone numbers Mr D has supplied and there is no record of that call;
I do not accept that TSCs records are likely incorrect  it has upheld Mr Ds 
complaint and I havent seen any clear reason that it would conceal material 
evidence about the call as has been suggested;
I cannot therefore make findings as to the nature of that call  or that Mr Ds 
nationality was confirmed in 2018 because we simply do not know what was said 
between the parties at that time;
though Mr D contends otherwise, the record of his NI number was not sufficient to 
establish his nationality;
nor did the fact that TSC told Mr D in November 2017 that the NI number was 
sufficient information as an identifier mean that its later actions were incorrect;
MiFID II came into place in January 2018, and thereafter to perform a trade or 
transfer TSC needed confirmation of Mr Ds nationality;
an NI number isnt a guarantee of a British nationality  so TSC couldnt simply 
complete this for Mr D as has been suggested;
thats because a a foreign national with the right to live and work in the UK can apply 
for an NI number;
in any event, TSC had not breached MiFID II by completing the dividend 
reinvestment. A specific Commission Delegated Regulation set out within the 
technical standards for businesses in the FCA Handbook specifically says that an 
acquisition under a dividend re-investment plan does not amount to a transaction for 
the purposes of MiFID II; 
the first such time the regulatory requirement was required to be satisfied in respect 
of identifier details was when Succession applied to transfer Mr Ds ISA;
it follows that I believe TSC was reasonable in issuing the letter of 19 February 2020 
to Mr D;
though I realise Mr D didnt receive that letter I am persuaded it was sent by TSC;
I have seen no objective evidence to suggest the record TSC has produced was 
inaccurate;
further, this was followed up by an email from Succession to TSC dated 23 March 
2020 where it was explained the letter hadnt reached Mr D and another copy should 
be issued;
TSC promised to do so and that Mr D would receive it within two to three working 
days  which happened as agreed on 25 March 2020;
the letter (and the same copy letter) was correctly addressed  whilst it did not reach 
Mr D, the vast majority of properly addressed postal correspondence is received;
and TSC is not at fault for the delivery of the letter;
taking the above into account, I believe the earliest the transfer could (and should) 
have taken place was 27 March 2020  two days after Mr D confirmed the missing 
nationality information required to execute the transfer;
and that date disregards the fee, which TSC has reasonably waived;
the unit value of the existing Invesco Perpetual fund increased by more than £4,000 
over the period from 27 March to 1 May 2020; the unit value of the new funds proposed by Succession (Vanguard LifeStrategy 60% 
Equity Accumulation Fund and Goldman Sachs Global Multi Asset Growth Portfolio) 
also increased over the same period;
however, looking at the performance of the units that would have been purchased as 
at 27 March 2020 in the two funds as at 1 May 2020, Mr Ds investment (accounting 
for fees) would have been valued at £25,190;
this is less than the increase in value in the existing ISA fund;
TSC paid Mr D £27,554 after fees  he has therefore not been financially 
disadvantaged by delay caused by TSC;
in the circumstances, I believe the apology, the waiving of the fee, and the fact that 
TSC has not recalculated the ISA value as at the date it ought to have completed the 
transfer is a reasonable response to the outcome of Mr Ds complaint  and I dont 
believe that it ought to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman