DRN-3833280
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited closed a claim for his mobile phone 
to be repaired when he accidently dropped it and it was damaged.
What happened
Mr H has cover for his mobile phone with Assurant through a policy linked to his bank 
account. Mr H cancelled the part of his bank account his policy was linked to on 9 June 2022 
and then reactivated this on 13 July 2022. So between these dates he didnt have cover for 
his phone with Assurant. Mr H has told us he did this due to an anticipated change in his 
circumstances, which in the end didnt occur.
On 21 July 2022 Mr H contacted Assurant to make a claim as he said hed dropped and 
damaged his phone. As this claim was made only nine days after his policy had been 
reactivated Assurant asked Mr H for evidence that the phone was in full working order when 
the damage occurred.
Mr H told them that his phone didnt have a SIM card as he only used it for photographs and 
storage. So while he could provide them with proof of purchase, he couldnt provide the 
proof of usage Assurant had requested. Because of this Assurant closed Mr Hs claim.
Mr H complained to Assurant about his claim being closed. They didnt uphold his complaint 
as they said he hadnt provided all the information theyd requested. They said that as they 
couldnt confirm the phone was in full working order when his policy was reinstated, they 
couldnt consider his claim. And they referred him to his policy which says You may be 
asked to complete a claim form or provide additional information in order to progress your 
claim. This could be documentation from your network showing that the mobile phone was 
last being used by you. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Assurants response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs policy didnt require him to provide proof that the phone was being 
used. So she said Assurant should reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions.
Mr H responded to our investigators opinion saying that hed had the phone repaired under 
another policy, so he didnt need Assurant to repair it. But he wanted them to compensate 
him for closing his claim when they shouldnt have.
Our investigator considered what Mr H had said and recommended that Assurant pay him 
£100 compensation, rather than reassessing his claim. Assurant didnt accept our 
investigators updated opinion as they said Mr H needed to show the damage to his phone 
had occurred as hed claimed. And he hadnt done this as hed not provided evidence that 
the phone was in good, working order when he made his claim. 
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H had cover for his phone on the date he says it was dropped and damaged. But 
because his cover lapsed, and was then reinstated, Assurant wanted information to confirm 
the phone was in good, working order, which they say Mr H couldnt provide.
Mr H has told us that because of an expected change to his circumstances he closed the 
bank account his policy was linked to, as he wasnt going to need the benefits attached to 
the account. But he then found out quite quickly that things werent going to change, and he 
reinstated his account. While it may be unusual for circumstances to change so quickly, it 
seems a reasonable explanation of why Mr Hs policy was cancelled and then reinstated.
The policy says that Mr H is covered for loss, theft, damage and breakdown. And that he 
didnt need to register his mobile phone for it to be insured. If he needed to make a claim the 
policy says he can provide details of the make, model, IMEI number, memory size (if 
applicable), colour (where applicable) and telephone number.
The policy goes on to say that Assurant will need to validate any claims by checking the 
mobile phone belongs to him. And that to do this they will require some form of proof of 
ownership, that confirms the make, model, IMEI and memory size (if applicable). Its said this 
can be documentation from a network provider, such as the original contract documentation, 
a document showing the phone is being used on their network, or a purchase receipt. And if 
proof of ownership cant be provided the claim may be declined.
Under the section in the policy How to make a claim it says that if a claim is made Assurant 
will tell the policyholder what information they need to assess the claim. And this could be 
documentation from your network showing that the phone was last being used by you.
The wording of this suggests to me that if Assurant requested information from Mr Hs 
network, it was to show he was using the phone, rather than someone else, not that it was in 
good, working order. Theres no reference in the policy to proving that the phone was in 
good, working order, and clearly it wasnt, or it wouldnt have needed to be repaired.
Mr H has told us that he was able to provide proof of ownership, and I think Assurant should 
at least have considered this before closing his claim. And had the phone been sent to 
Assurant then could have checked the condition it was in, but as they closed Mr Hs claim it 
was never sent to them.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) sets out guidance for insurers for 
handling claims. It says that an insurer must 8.1.1 (1) handle claims promptly and fairly and 
8.1.1 (3) not unreasonably reject a claim.
Im not persuaded that Assurant handled Mr Hs claim fairly as they requested evidence from 
him that his policy didnt say would be required. And although they didnt reject his claim, 
they closed it when he couldnt provide the evidence of usage theyd requested.
Mr H has told us hes made a successful claim under another policy, so he doesnt need 
Assurant to repair his phone. But I think that as a result of them closing his claim hes 
suffered distress and inconvenience which he should be compensated for. And taking 
everything into account I think the correct level of compensation is £100.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Assurant General Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to pay him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of them closing his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman