DRN-1431270
 
The complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. 
 What happened
This complaint is about 38 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr J between January 2016 
and June 2019.  Mr J borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £950 to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. The loans frequently overlapped so Mr J had to make more than one 
repayment a month. There were no significant breaks in the borrowing between loans 1 and 
36. But there was a break of 11 months after Mr J repaid loan 36 and took out loan 37. Mr J 
repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Js complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 12 to loan 
36 shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and offered redress from loan 20 onwards. 
But Mr J was unhappy with this and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Sunny asked Mr J for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr J said he earned between £1,250 and £1,850 a month. His expenditure was 
between £525 and £1,216 a month. From what I can see, there was nothing untoward in 
Sunnys credit checks that should have prompted further checks. 
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Js 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mr J provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr J was saying. The loans looked affordable for Mr J, so I cant say it was 
wrong for Sunny to have provided loans one to three.
For loans four onwards, given the pattern of borrowing and Mr Js income,  I think Sunny 
should have made better checks to make sure he could sustainably repay his loans. But I 
dont have enough information to show what these better checks would have found. So I 
cant say it was wrong for Sunny to have provided loans four to eleven. 
I think the gap between repaying loan 36 and taking out loan 37 was significant. And so I 
think Sunny could reasonably treat loan 37 as the start of a new chain of borrowing and 
carry out the affordability checks that were appropriate. I think the checks that Sunny made 
for loans 37 and 38 went far enough. The loans looked affordable for Mr J. And so I cant say 
it was wrong for Sunny to have provided loans 37 and 38. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
12. I say this because by loan 12, Mr Js overall pattern of borrowing showed that he was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans:
Mr J had taken 12 instalment loans in 10 months. And hed borrowed again three 
times after repaying earlier  loans. 
From loan 12 onwards Mr J was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one, or whilst it was still running. So Sunny ought to have realised 
it was more likely than not Mr J was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Js indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 36 was 
taken out over two years after Mr Js first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr J had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Mr J lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 12 
onwards to loan 36 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Js ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 12 to 36 and I think Sunny should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr J, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans 12 to 36;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan 12 to 36 means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans 12 to 36 should be removed from Mr Js 
credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Js 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr J 
compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman