DRN-3391111
The complaint
Ms C complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running account 
credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 26 November 2017, Ms C applied for a credit account with Next. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £150. The credit limit was increased once on 7 January 2018 to £600 
and decreased to £300 in April 2018.  
In 2021, Ms C complained to Next to say that the account shouldnt have been opened for 
her because it wasnt affordable and that Next ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms C didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Ms Cs complaint is that Next made credit available that was unaffordable. Next has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Next failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Ms C with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Next to think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were modest and the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit were also relatively modest. There were a few payment issues 
early in the life of the account but they were for small amounts when the balance was very 
modest. And the later payment issues happened after Next had already taken action to 
reduce the credit limit. Overall, the account was mostly well managed and before the 
credit limit was decreased Ms C was not using anything close to the full credit limit 
available to her. I have also noted that Ms Cs bank statements show more income coming 
into her account than payments going out in the months before the credit was offered and 
the balances were positive.  
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Next to think that the credit it provided 
Ms C was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms C was managing her 
account or what Next could see of her management of other credit ought to have 
prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms C will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Ms C to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the submissions 
in this case, particularly those at the time of the credit and the credit increase, I have not 
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman