DRN-3084829
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from Mi Vehicle Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr W was supplied with a  car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MVF. The price of the car was £65,979.32. Mr W paid a deposit of £3120 and the 
remainder was financed. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had 
covered around 44,700 miles.
Mr W experienced issues with the car within the first month. The engine management light 
came on. The car was returned to the supplying dealer at the end of August 2019 and again 
in September 2019. Repairs were carried out and the car was returned to Mr W in October 
2019.
In August 2020 the engine management light illuminated again. Mr W arranged for the car to 
be inspected by a main dealer, who identified an issue and advised Mr W it had been fixed. 
In September 2020 the car suffered catastrophic engine failure. The car was inspected again 
and the timing chain was identified as the cause of the engine failure.
Mr W arranged for the car to be inspected by a local independent engineer. The engineer 
found that the car had a missing service history and said the 2019 service had been overdue 
and that  he had concerns that the late service/oil change was linked to the condition of the 
engine.
Mr W raised a complaint with MVF. He said he wanted to reject the car because the repair 
costs hed been quoted for a replacement engine were almost half the value of the car.
MVF contacted the supplying dealer to obtain information about what repirs had been carried 
out in October 2019. The dealer advised that it had replaced the catalytic converter and 
changed a sensor. The dealer also said there had been no other issues found with the car at 
that time.
MVF looked at the service history of the car and found that it had been serviced in line with 
the manufacturers guidelines up until the point of supply. It found that since the point of 
supply, the car hadnt been serviced.
MVF arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspection concluded that the 
fault with the car wouldnt have been present at the point of supply because of the time and 
mileage elapsed. Based on the information it had obtained, MVF rejected Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says the car was sold 
to him with an incomplete service history and he thinks the missing service led to the failure 
of the timing chain. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show that that car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply and said he wasnt upholding the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. He said the engineer who inspected the car in October 2020 had 
concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that it was reasonable for Mr W to 
reject it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MVF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
In would expect a  second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr W  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car, which made it of unsatisfactory quality, rather than a fault which was caused by general 
wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
rebuttable presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply, and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair the fault. If the repairs arent successful the consumer can reject the car. After 6 
months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Theres no dispute that the engine of the car suffered catastrophic failure. Mr W and MVF 
disagree about whether this was due to a fault which was present or developing at the point 
of supply. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
I can see that Mr W experienced issues with the engine management light illuminating within 
a short time of getting the car. Ive looked at the job card for the repairs which were carried 
out in October 2019. This shows that the catalytic converter and a sensor was replaced. The 
recorded mileage at the time of repair was 46,957, meaning that Mr W had covered 2,251 
miles since the point of supply. Theres nothing on the job card to suggest that there were 
any faults with the engine at this time. I can se that following this repair, Mr W drove the car 
without issue for around 11 months, so it appears that these repairs were successful.
Mr W experienced timing chain failure in September 2020. Ive looked at the engineers 
report obtained by Mr W. This says that the service carried out on 24 January 2019 was 
5,813 miles overdue, and that because the car had covered 10,306 miles since that service 
at the point of supply, the dealership shouldve serviced the car prior to sale. The engineer 
stated that it could not be known whether, if the car had been serviced at this time, or later 
by Mr W, whether the engine failure wouldve occurred or not. The engineer also stated that 
at the time of the inspection, the car was overdue for an oil change and that this, together 
with the previous overdue service, meant that he couldnt be sure that adequate lubrication 
was being provided to the engine. The engineer said that it would be necessary to dismantle 
the engine to find out the reasons for the failure of the timing chain and/or to determine 
whether the failure of the engine was due to the lack of oil change. The engineer concluded that because the car was supplied with a missing/overdue service , it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Having reviewed the engineers report, Im not persuaded that this establishes that the timing 
chain failure was caused by the missed services. The engineer is clear that the engine would 
need to be stripped down to ascertain whether the lack of oil changes was a causal factor in 
the failure of the timing chain. Based on what Ive read in the report, there isnt enough to 
show that there was an inherent fault with the car at the point of supply which led to or 
caused the failure of the timing chain.
Ive taken into account the fact that Mr W had been in possession of the car for over a year 
when the timing chain failed, and that hed covered around 17,300 miles during this time. If 
there had been an inherent fault with the timing chain at the point of supply, I think its more 
likely than not that this wouldve become apparent much sooner,. The time and mileage 
elapsed before the timing chain failed makes it more likely that the failure of the timing chain 
was due to wear and tear.
Ive considered whether a lack of servicing by Mr W contributed to the fault here because I 
can see from the service history that the car was last serviced in January 2019 at 37,400 
miles. This was before Mr W acquired the car. Since then, and with the car having covered 
over 17,000 miles in the 12/13 months that Mr W had the car before the timing chain failed, I 
cant see that a service has been carried out. This means that Mr W hasnt serviced the car 
in line with the manufacturers guidelines. It shouldve been serviced every 16,000 miles/12 
months, so a service shouldve been carried out in January 2020. If the engineer is correct 
about a lack or servicing/oil change being a possible factor in the failure of the timing chain, 
then on the available evidence , I think Mr W must also accept some responsibility because 
he didnt have the car serviced.
Ive also looked at the independent engineers report by DEKRA. As with the first engineers 
report, the independent engineer wasnt able to state the cause of the timing chain failure. 
But he said  as Ive already mentioned  that the mileage covered since Mr W got the car 
made it unlikely that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that there 
was an inherent fault which caused the timing chain to fail. Neither of the engineers reports 
say what caused the timing chain to fail. The first engineer alludes to the missing/late service 
as a factor, but he doesnt reach a firm conclusion on this and fails to deal with the fact that 
the evidence shows that Mr W hadnt had the car serviced when  he should have done. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
at the point of supply or that there are grounds for rejection of the car. So I wont be asking 
MVF to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman