DRN-2737913
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Reassure Limited provided him with misleading information about two 
life policies that led him to make them paid-up when he wouldnt otherwise have chosen to 
do that if he had been given the right information.
What happened
 Mr B took out two reviewable WOL policies in 1987 with Crown Life (now ReAssure), one 
providing a sum assured of £250,000 at an annual premium of £1,370 and the other a sum 
assured of £204,000 with an annual premium of £1,118. In June 2010 Mr B made the 
policies paid-up after making enquiries with ReAssure.
He complained to ReAssure in 2019 when he became aware that the amount being 
deducted from the value of the policies was more than the premium amount that he thought 
the costs of providing the life cover were deducted from.
Reassure didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators also didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
information ReAssure had provided to Mr Bat the time he made the policies paid up was 
incorrect. She also thought his financial adviser would have been aware of the 
consequences of the policies being made paid-up.
I issued two provisional decisions both upholding the complaint and my findings in both are 
set out below.
Findings in first provisional decision:
Mr Bs complaint revolves around the way he thinks the policies worked with regard to 
paying the costs of providing the benefits of the policy after the policies became paid-up. I 
think it is reasonably clear that he misunderstood what would happen on the policies being 
made paid-up and the question I have to answer is to what extent, if any, ReAssure was 
responsible for this.
Mr B misunderstood a number of important matters relating to how the policies worked and 
what happened when they were made paid up.
In his letter of 15 April 2010 to ReAssure he stated:
I am considering making the above two policies paid-up, with future premium payments 
being taken through deduction of units.
So, he clearly thought that the premiums for each policy would be payable after the policy 
became paid up and that this would be taken from the accrued value of the policies by 
deduction of units. 
Mr Bs letter was written after a conversation with ReAssure and he was seeking clarification 
of what had been discussed. I dont have the benefit of the telephone recording, so I dont 
know whether Mr B was provided with misleading information in that call or misunderstood 
what he had been told. 
But he has indicated that his mistaken belief about how the policy worked arose as a result 
of a letter he had received from ReAssure when he raised an earlier complaint in 2007 
arising from review of his policy. In the letter, dated 29 October 2007, ReAssure stated:
When calculating the cost of providing benefits such as life cover, a number of factors are 
taken into account such as clients age, sex smoking status and medical history. Once the 
cost of any benefits on a policy and any administration charges have been taken from the 
annual premium any amount remaining is then invested to provide a fund value which is 
indicated on the annual statements.
This information is wrong, as what actually happens is that the premium buys units in the 
investment fund/s the policy invests in and units are then deducted each month to pay the 
cost of cover. 
Even though this information is wrong it isnt about what happens when the policy is made 
paid-up and doesnt indicate that the premiums remain payable after the policies become 
paid-up as Mr B believed. So, I dont think that Reassure is responsible for his initial 
misunderstanding about that point.
But in his letter of 15 April 2010 Mr B asked Reassure to confirm his mistaken understanding 
about how the policies worked. This included him wanting confirmation that if at some point 
there werent enough units to continue funding the policies he would be alerted and that if he 
reinstated the premiums within 13 months of the first unpaid premium the policies would 
continue in force.
It is clear from this letter that Mr B mistakenly thought premiums would still be paid after the 
policies became paid-up and that he would have the opportunity of putting matters right if 
there werent enough units in the policies to pay the premium at some point in the future. So 
he clearly didnt understand that the 13 month period he referred would start from 2010 after 
the policies became paid-up and the first unpaid annual premium arose. 
ReAssure simply responded to his letter on 21 April 2010 to say that it doesnt advise when 
there are insufficient units to fund the sum assured. This information of itself wasnt wrong 
but didnt clear up Mr Bs clear misunderstanding. ReAssure accepted in its FRL that its 
letter shouldve corrected Mr Bs mistaken belief as to how the policy worked. 
This is a significant admission on the part of Reassure, because if it had cleared up Mr Bs 
misunderstanding as it has admitted it shouldve done, he wouldve been made aware that 
units would not be deducted to pay the premium as he mistakenly thought. 
I think he is also likely to have been made aware that the 13 month period would not run 
from some point in the future but would run from 2010. I think this is significant because I 
think it is more likely than not that Mr B thought that he would have time to put things right 
when there were insufficient units in the policies to make the premium payments - which he 
thought would be around 30 years from when the policies were made paid-up.
I think if he had been aware that the 13 month period to reinstate the policies ran from 2010 
and that he would not have the opportunity of putting things right in the future he is unlikely 
to have made the policies paid up. ReAssure not only didnt clarify how the policies worked on being made paid-up, as it 
shouldve done, but went on to confirm Mr Bs misunderstanding about the premium 
payments remaining payable, because in its letter of 7 July 2010 it stated:
We can confirm that both policies have now been made Paid-Up and the policies will remain 
in force with the annual payments being paid by deduction of units, this will continue until the 
exhaustion of invested units.
As the costs were paid by deduction of units on a monthly basis and the only annual 
payment was the premium I think this is likely to have reinforced Mr Bs mistaken belief that 
units were deducted to pay the premium which was then used to pay the costs. 
ReAssure again acknowledged in its FRL that the letter was misleading and shouldve said 
that the cost of life cover  not the annual payment - was maintained by deduction of units. If 
it had provided the right information Mr B wouldve had the opportunity to rectify what he had 
done by simply restarting payment of premiums.
I have considered the other information Mr B had available to him. I acknowledge that the 
terms and conditions dont state that the premiums are payable after the policies are made 
paid-up. But I also dont think that the provision headed Paid-Up Policy is actually very 
clear as it provides two alternatives, the first of which refers to no further contributions being 
payable, the second, which Mr B chose, making no such reference.
I acknowledge the point made by Reassure in its FRL that the letter of 29 October 2007 
explained that the premium had the potential to increase so that Mr B could expect that an 
amount greater than the existing premium might be necessary. I also think the fact that the 
2007 correspondence was in relation to a complaint about reviews of the policies of itself 
shouldve made him aware the premiums werent fixed. 
But I dont think this is a key issue in this complaint in any event. This is because if 
ReAssure had made clear that the premiums were no longer payable once the policies were 
made paid-up, as it has acknowledged it shouldve done, then whether Mr B thought the 
premium was fixed or not becomes irrelevant as he wouldve known that premiums would no 
longer be payable anyway so he wouldve known these had nothing to do with the policies 
continuing.
If Reassure had provided clear information to him about how the policies worked at the time 
he was thinking about making them paid-up it is more likely than not he wouldve understood 
that the policies probably would not continue as long as he thought they would and that he 
would not have the opportunity of putting that right by simply starting the premium payments 
again.
I think it is clear how important the policies were to him as he stated in his letter of 15 April 
2010 that:
Finally, I wish the sums assured to always (Mr Bs emphasis) be maintained at £250,000 
and £214,000 for the policies..I would like confirmation that you will write to me in advance 
of any proposed change to these sums assured.
In the circumstances I dont think he wouldve risked losing the benefit of the policies by 
making them paid-up if he had known that the accrued units in the policies would not be 
used to pay the premiums but would instead pay the costs and that he only had 13 months 
from 2010 to reinstate them.In summary Reassure has to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. It has 
acknowledged that it failed to do this. I am satisfied that if it had done what it shouldve done 
Mr B would not have made his policies paid-up.
I said ReAssure should put the policies back in the position they would be in if not made 
paid-up, including carrying out retrospective reviews. I said Mr B would be responsible for 
payment of premiums going forwards. I also thought that it should pay Mr B £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Findings in second provisional decision
I have been provided with no new information or evidence that would lead me to change the 
findings in my first provisional decision  as set out above. So, I am still of the view that 
ReAssure provided unclear information to Mr B which led him to make his policies paid-up. 
That leaves the issue of redress. Although ReAssure initially referred to Mr B contributing 
towards the missing premiums, when it was asked to put a figure forward it didnt suggest a 
contribution but said he should pay all the missing premiums. I dont think this would be fair 
or reasonable.
I acknowledge what ReAssure has said about Mr B being better off as a result of my 
findings. However, the missing premium amount is significant and accrued for around nine 
years before Mr B became aware of the consequences of having made the policies paid up. 
He had no reason to set aside the money he would otherwise have paid into the policies so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask him to come up with the full amount of the missing 
premiums now.
However, on refection, I do agree with ReAssure that he should make some contribution 
towards the missing premiums. Im mindful that if ReAssure hadnt got things wrong, he 
would have paid those missing premiums. For him to have the full benefit of the policies now 
without having paid anything towards them since 2010 I dont think would be fair. I think in 
the circumstances he should make a contribution towards the missing premiums and I think 
£10,000 is reasonable.
I still think Reassure should pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Mr B agreed with my decision but 
ReAssure didnt and repeated the point it had made previously. Namely that Mr B will be in a 
far more advantageous financial position than he would have been and has benefitted from 
the complaints process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have been provided with no evidence that would lead me to change the findings in my 
second provisional decision. I acknowledge the point that ReAssure has made about Mr B 
being better off then he would otherwise have been. I noted in my second provisional 
decision that ReAssure initially suggested that Mr B should contribute to the missing 
premiums. However, it subsequently changed its mind and said that he should pay all the 
premiums, leaving me to decide what I thought was a reasonable contribution. 
I explained in my second provisional decision why I didnt think that it was fair and 
reasonable for Mr B to be responsible for paying all the missing premiums  namely because 
of the amount due, the length of time over which those premiums have accrued and the fact 
he has had no reason to put aside money to pay those premiums. I am not persuaded that I 
should change my view on redress in this case.Putting things right
 ReAssure Limited must put the policies back in the position they would be in if they had not 
been made paid-up and premiums had continued to be paid, subject to Mr B paying £10,000 
towards the missing premiums.
It should also pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above and in my provisional 
decisions. ReAssure Limited must put the policies back in the position they would have been 
in on the basis I have set out above and pay £300 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman