DRN-4277216
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim he made on his caravan insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W has a comprehensive caravan insurance policy with RSA. 
Unfortunately Mr Ws campervan was stolen during the night in September 2022. Mr W says 
his campervan was stolen from outside his home address. He reported the theft to RSA. 
RSA declined the claim on the basis the vehicle was parked outside his house for five nights, 
whereas the policy conditions only permit it to be parked away from a secure storage facility 
for two nights. Mr W isnt happy about this because the campervan was being used whilst it 
was parked outside his home. He says it was being cleaned, repaired, and slept in during 
the course of those five days, after which he was going away in it again.
Mr W says because he slept in the campervan on 22 September this counts as the 
campervan being in use as per the terms of the insurance policy. And so his campervan 
was outside his home within the permitted 48 hours prior to the next trip. Mr W also 
complains that the policy is unfair and incorrect.  
Mr W complained to RSA. RSA said since the caravan was parked on a street near his 
home from 20 September 2022 to 25 September 2022. It said the policy allows the vehicle to 
be parked at an alternative location for up to 48 hours. It referred to the policy and said when 
the caravan is not in use it should be parked in the storage location. RSA said had Mr W 
contacted it to request an extension to the temporary storage, as per the terms of the policy, 
the request would have been declined on the grounds of security. 
Mr W didnt agree so he referred his complaint to this service.  One of our investigators 
looked into things for him. He said he thought RSA didnt act unreasonably or unfairly in 
declining the claim given the terms set out in the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said because the campervan was stolen within the 48 hours before he 
was due to go away he was permitted to park the van near his house by the terms of the 
policy. 
Mr W didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines some of the key terms. It says Use/Used is when the Motorhome is 
being used and occupied overnight for holiday purposes. The policy doesnt define holiday 
and where terms arent defined we use the everyday meaning; so a holiday is an extended 
period of leisure and recreation, especially one spent away from home or travelling. So I 
dont think Mr Ws caravan was in use at the time of the theft because it was parked on a 
street near his home which doesnt count as a holiday, even if he slept in it for one night 
during that period.
The policy says the caravan can be kept somewhere other than secure storage for up to 48 
hours when being cleaned/emptied/loaded/serviced; either before or after being used. Mr W 
kept it on a street near his home for five days. He says it was being used, cleaned, serviced 
over the five days but as explained above I dont think it was. The policy doesnt allow the 
campervan to be parked somewhere other than the secure storage for periods over two 
days; unless the insurer has agreed it in advance. So the insurer would expect the 
campervan to be cleaned and emptied and serviced within the permitted two days, and then 
returned to secure storage thereafter.
Mr W maintains the campervan was stolen in the 48 hours prior to going away again  
therefore permitted under the policy terms. But the campervan wasnt kept there for 48 hours 
as per the terms of the policy; the theft just happened to be in the 48 hours prior to the next 
arranged trip. It had actually been there for five days. The crux of the matter is  any period 
over two nights should have been checked and agreed with the insurer. It is for them to 
decide what risk to take on. The longer the caravan is parked on a street the more 
vulnerable it is, so the greater risk to the insurer. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. I have read his testimony about his 
intentions for the campervan and I empathise with the position he now finds himself in. But 
the breach in the terms of the policy allows the insurer to decline the claim. And thats what 
happened here. 
So for the reasons explained above I think RSA has acted reasonably and within the terms 
of the policy. Despite being aware this outcome seems unfair to Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman