DRN-2019803
The complaint
Mr F complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, decreased his account credit limit 
leaving it in arrears. This precipitated a request from Drafty for £372 to bring the account 
balance back to being within the new lower credit limit. It suspended his account. Mr F says 
these actions were wrong and/or irresponsible. 
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured 
and had no fixed duration.
In May 2018 Mr F applied for £1,500 as a loan. Mr F declared a monthly income of £1,450 
with outgoings of £1,211. Draftys records show it noted those declared figures and Mr Fs 
disposable income was £239. Drafty says that it carried out checks. The credit facility with a 
limit of £1,130 was arranged for Mr F in May 2018.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr F (clause 5). On the assumption that Mr F drew down the full 
£1,130 on the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments then the total 
amount payable would have been just under £1,509.46. This would have equated to 
repayments of just under £126 a month.
  
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Fs salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6 which 
I have not set out here. A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum 
payments on or near Mr Fs monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made 
available.
 
The complaint relates to the action taken whilst the account was up and running. Succinctly, 
Mr F experienced a £260 credit limit increase in late December 2018 after requesting it; a 
£300 credit limit increase in or around May 2019 followed by a £540 credit limit decrease on 
6 September 2019 plus a suspension of the account. On 7 September 2019 telephone notes 
for Mr Fs account with Drafty shows that he called to ask why his account had gone into 
suspended status. That is when Mr F learned that his credit limit had been reduced and 
was below his outstanding balance at that date. Drafty asked him to pay the due amount 
post which we will forward the request to the concerned department to check the whether 
the suspension can be revoked from his account or not.
It followed that Mr F raised a complaint about this development and raised a concern about 
his credit file and the impact on it. 
 
Draftys final response was sent quickly on 11 September 2019 and it said:
  
its system conducts a periodic assessment on accounts to check affordability, and 
the system may offer an increment or decrease in limit along with the customers 
credit line being suspended;
the system had decreased the limit to £1,150 after one of these periodic 
assessments hence it has been suspended for the time being
It regrets the inconvenience caused
It addressed an interest query Mr F had raised during a telephone conversation on 
9 September 2019;
The outstanding balance as at the date of the FRL was cited as £1,583.65 (including 
interest);
to get the suspension revoked, we request you make the payment of 372.87 GBP 
upon making the repayments, additional draw limit will become positive and the 
suspension might be revoked.
Mr F has said he has suffered inconvenience, distress and his credit file has been affected. 
In addition he was not able to repay the £372 (being the difference between the outstanding 
balance in September 2019 and the new credit limit) in one payment and so he chose to 
cancel the continuous payment authority (CPA) and not pay more.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that for Drafty to take the action 
it did, it placed Mr Fs account in a potential default position, adversely affected his credit file 
and caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. He did not think Drafty had acted 
fairly and reasonably. I have not set out here the proposed redress as outlined by the 
adjudicator.
Mr F acknowledged the letter of opinion, Drafty did not respond and so the complaint 
remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the credit was offered.
Before making this decision, I asked Mr F for details of what he had paid over the last year 
and whether he knew the outstanding balance. I also asked for a copy of his credit file in 
order to view the impact if any. He had been asked for that by our operative who set up his 
complaint for him in September 2019 so this was the second time he had been asked for it. 
Mr F has not responded. 
I wrote to Drafty to say that the heart of the issue was whether it was fair and reasonable for 
Drafty to reduce Mr Fs credit limit and inform him of it without any notice. And I asked for 
details of what it had seen during its periodic reassessment to precipitate the reduction and 
the suspension. I have not heard back. So, I must proceed on what I do have. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account agreement. I have carefully 
checked all the details on each of Mr Fs statements of the account from its inception to 
September 2019. Mr F drew down the full amount of the original credit limit at first  £1,130  and wished to 
repay it the same day. So, Mr Fs account was not really used at first and remained open. 
Mr F started to draw down relatively modest sums each month from July 2018. I can see that 
he got into a pattern of repaying the monthly minimum payments due (a little over the 
interest charged each month) and drawing down modest cash amounts but made no 
progress in reducing the underlaying principal sums owed. The outstanding balance 
increased quite substantially quickly.
 
The agreement between the parties (clause 2.3) does provide that Drafty was able to 
decrease the credit limit and it may give you advance notice. It also provides that there may 
be circumstances in which it reduces the limit and then informs the customer later. 
In the Terms and Conditions of that same agreement, clause 3 provides for the account 
suspension. There are several reasons listed in clause 3 and I do not set them all out here. 
On the issue of notification, clause 3 says that if possible, Drafty will inform the customer 
before it suspends the account and with the reason for doing so. And it goes on to say: If it 
is not practicable to tell you beforehand, we will tell you immediately afterwards. 
I refer to the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 
which addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an 
account. 6.7.2 (1) says: A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take 
appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
And 6.7.3A says A firm must monitor a retail revolving credit customers or a credit card 
customers repayment record and any other relevant information held by the firm and take 
appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible financial difficulties.
And (3) A customer paying the minimum amount required under the agreement is not, by 
itself, a sign of possible or actual financial difficulties under CONC 6.7.3A R.
Despite asking for it, I have no other evidence to look at to try to decide why it was Drafty did 
what it did other than reviewing the way that Mr F ran the account. And as I have explained 
earlier he repaid the minimum amount each month, but that on its own it is not enough to 
take it as a sign of possible or actual financial difficulties. 
So, it does seem to me that on the information I have and the lack of explanation by Drafty, 
there was no apparent justification for reducing the credit limit to a level close to the original 
credit limit level. And leaving Mr Fs account in a position where it would be viewed that Mr F 
had not paid enough or had gone over his limit. As he has explained  he never missed a 
payment.  
My decision is that in Mr Fs case, it was wrong to reduce the limit to a sum below the 
existing balance. And neither Mr F nor I have been given reasons or grounds for Drafty to 
reduce the limit and suspend the account without notice. So, my decision is that it did do 
something wrong.
 
Draftys FRL does accept that it had caused inconvenience to Mr F and I agree. And Ive 
seen Draftys covering letter sending the September 2019 statement to him, which says that 
his next payment was to be £110, whereas the FRL (a few days earlier) was asking for £372. 
Considering what it knew about Mr Fs finances from his application form and the way he 
had been paying the minimum repayments only for over a year, then to demand such a sum 
(£372) was not reasonable or had any real prospect of being able to be paid. I can imagine 
that some concern was caused to Mr F.To resolve his complaint Mr F wants the following:
reinstate the previous credit limit
remove the suspension
pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I have no evidence that Mr Fs credit file has been affected. I am not interfering with the 
credit limit decision which Drafty decided upon and may have reasons for although I do not 
know what those reasons are. I do think that the way Mr Fs account was radically altered, 
with no notice and no explanation does warrant some element of recompense. But I do not 
think a separate compensation payment ought to be made, rather that the account ought to 
be in the best financial position such that Mr F can deal with it going forward.
 
Mr F telephoned one of our representatives to refer his complaint to this service in 
September 2019 and I have listened to that call. Mr F said that he had suffered depression 
and had had sleepless nights such that he was so tired he was making mistakes at work. 
I am sorry to hear that this may have been the case, but as the complaint was registered 
with Drafty a few days earlier and he had received the FRL on the day that he telephoned 
this service, then I think its unlikely that this lasted for long. So, I do not consider that any 
additional payment over and above what I set out below is right or fair.
Putting things right
Drafty should write off all sums (capital drawdowns and interest) over £1,150 to ensure that 
the outstanding balance on the account going forward is just below, or at, the new credit limit 
level of £1,150.
If there has been any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Fs credit file since 
September 2019 then Drafty should correct it for that period only. But it would need to have 
evidence of there being some adverse information recorded before doing that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, trading 
as Drafty, do as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman