DRN-2910449
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a predecessor business of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
gave her poor advice when they recommended she took out a Free-Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. As a result she feels shes been financially 
disadvantaged. 
Mrs P is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC), but Ill 
only reference her in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs P met with an adviser tied to a business which is now part of Aviva on 7 July 1994. The 
adviser completed a fact find, which confirmed that:
Mrs P was then aged 50, was a member of her employers Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS), and planned to retire at her OPSs normal retirement age of 60.
She was paying 6% of her salary as contributions to the OPS. 
She was only interested in retirement planning advice.
She was currently working 4 days a week, but planned to move to full time from 1 
September 1994. 
She was earning £15,691 based on 4 days a week. Her expected earnings in the 
1994/95 tax year were £17,700. 
She had first joined her employers OPS in 1966. And had worked full time up to 
1970. But shed been part time, and had career breaks after that. I understand that 
Aviva have since confirmed that Mrs P actually joined the OPS in February 1963.
Allowing for the remaining service up to age 60, Mrs P expected to get a pension of 
20/80ths of her final salary from the OPS. But at the time of the advice, shed only 
built up about 10/80ths of her final salary in the scheme. The adviser agreed to check 
the exact proportion of her final salary that had built up.
Mrs Ps attitude to risk was assessed as 2, relatively cautious.
There was a shortfall at the time of the advice of £4,904 each year when measured 
against the maximum OPS pension Mrs P couldve built up with full service.
The fact find was completed on 7 July 1994. Mrs P signed an associated declaration on 22 
July 1994.
The adviser recommended that Mrs P took out an FSAVC policy with starting contributions 
of £120 gross (£90 net) each month. I understand that the FSAVC plan started in August 
1994.
Aviva sent further documentation to Mrs P on 3 August 1994. This included specific 
information about the FSAVC plan and information about Mrs Ps right to cancel the policy. 
Mrs P decided to take her retirement benefits from both the OPS and the FSAVC plan in 
1997. She completed the necessary paperwork for the FSAVC plan on 21 October 1997. I 
understand that she took an annual pension of £281.52 with Aviva at this time. 
In March 2020, Mrs P, via her CMC, complained to Aviva about the sale of the FSAVC plan. 
She made the following points:
The adviser had failed to accurately assess the level of risk she was willing to take.
There was no justifiable reason for her to have taken out the portable FSAVC plan as 
she was likely to remain in the same employment until their retirement.
The adviser had failed to establish if her employers OPS offered added years or any 
other enhanced benefit AVC arrangement. If he had, she wouldve chosen that 
option. 
There was no evidence that the adviser compared the benefits of the FSAVC plan 
with the in-house AVC options. 
The adviser shouldve referred her to the OPS for full details of charges in order for 
her to have been able to make an informed choice. 
There was no evidence that the adviser made her fully aware of the comparison of 
charges with the FSAVC plan theyd recommended and the in-house AVC scheme.
There was no evidence that more suitable retirement alternatives were discussed 
with her in a fair and balanced way.
If the adviser had advised her correctly, she wouldve contributed to the most suitable 
in-house AVC arrangement.
Aviva asked Mrs P to complete their FSAVC questionnaire, which she did. 
Following receipt of that questionnaire, Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 
28 November 2020. They didnt uphold it. They felt their adviser had met all his pre-1996 
obligations by discussing the in-house AVC options and the lower charges that were 
available in-house. They said that with just over nine years to Mrs Ps expected retirement 
age, it was agreed that added years hadnt been a suitable option for Mrs P. They said shed 
been fully aware of the in-house money purchase AVC option and the advantageous 
charging structure. But that shed chosen the FSAVC plan with investment in the With Profit 
fund. And that this was consistent with her relatively cautious approach to risk. Based on her 
employment circumstances and the time to normal retirement, Aviva were satisfied that the 
sale of the FSAVC plan had been suitable. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the adviser had 
given appropriate consideration to the alternatives available to Mrs P before he 
recommended the
FSAVC plan. He said that the added years option had been referenced by the adviser. And 
Mrs P had been made aware that the in-house money purchase AVC option had lower charges. He also felt that there were valid reasons why the FSAVC plan had been chosen, 
including the 2% enhancement, access to ongoing advice, a wider choice of investment fund 
providers, and the availability of an open market option at retirement.
Mrs Ps CMC didnt agree with our investigator. They felt that the 2% enhancement couldnt 
be used as a valid reason for choosing the FSAVC plan over the in-house options without 
some sort of calculation to help her make an informed decision. They also didnt think that 
Mrs P had benefited from a wider choice of investment fund providers as she only invested 
in the With Profits fund. They said a With Profits fund was the default position in the in-house 
AVC arrangement, but that other choices were available. They said that access to the open 
market option was also irrelevant as Mrs P had chosen to stay with the FSAVC provider for 
her annuity. Overall, they didnt consider that Mrs P wouldve chosen the more expensive 
FSAVC plan if shed had all of the options explained to her properly.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at the regulatory position at the time of the advice. 
Regulatory position at the time of the advice
The advice complained about took place in July 1994. Mrs Ps adviser was a tied adviser. 
The rules he operated under meant he could only offer products from one provider - he 
wasnt allowed to sell products from any other provider. 
An AVC was usually part of an OPS. As the provider of the AVC was often a competing 
provider in the marketplace, a tied adviser of the FSAVC provider wouldnt typically have 
investigated whether AVC options were better than the FSAVC the company he was tied to 
provided. They could only recommend the products provided by the company they were tied 
to. 
The LAUTRO code of Conduct covered the expectations from tied advisers before May 
1996, so applies here. It required a tied adviser to exercise due skill, care and diligence and 
to deal fairly with investors. This meant we expected tied advisers to have known in-house 
AVC options would be available to the consumer. And in addition to highlighting the benefits 
of the FSAVC plan, they shouldve mentioned the generic benefits of the in-house options. 
Even if a tied adviser only knew the consumers occupation these generic benefits would 
include:
Money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC plan
Added years mightve been available under a defined benefit OPS. These provided a 
guaranteed benefit linked to salary and an additional component of tax-free cash, 
neither of which were available under an FSAVC plan
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house optionFor advice given before May 1996, mentioning the generic benefits that applied to the 
consumer was consistent with having regard to the consumer's right to contribute to an AVC 
arrangement and dealing fairly with investors  both of which were requirements under the 
LAUTRO Code of Conduct. The tied adviser wouldnt need to know anything specific about 
the consumers occupational scheme to mention these things. 
Mrs Ps OPS included an in-house money purchase AVC option with lower charges than the 
FSAVC plan. And had an added years option. But it didnt have matching or top-up 
contributions. 
From what Ive seen, the adviser declaration in the fact find produced at the time of the 
advice noted that both in-house options were discussed. The in-house added years option 
was: discounted on flexibility grounds. No further discussions regarding the potential cost 
of added years, or the benefits they could provide in comparison to the FSAVC plan were 
noted in the declaration. But I consider that that the wording in the declaration was sufficient 
at the time of the advice to show that the option had been considered. The notes show that 
the in-house money purchase AVC scheme was also discussed. The notes state: The client 
is fully aware of the availability of the in-house AVC scheme [provider name] which has the 
advantage of a reduced charging structure, but feels that the advantages of the FSAVC 
provide sufficient compensation for this.
The adviser declaration also notes the benefits of the FSAVC plan as follows:
These are portability should she leave [profession], confidentiality from employer, personal 
choice of provider with regard to investment, availability of open market option (not available 
with AVC in house). She also feels that the ongoing service provided by [Aviva] is very 
valuable furthermore as an [scheme name] member, enhancement of 2% of contributions is 
given throughout the term.
Mrs P signed the declaration, so Im satisfied that it fairly reflected the discussions between 
her and the adviser. 
Im satisfied that the adviser did make Mrs P aware of both in-house AVC options. And that 
the in-house money purchase option had lower charges than the FSAVC plan. Im also 
satisfied that the adviser highlighted the potential benefits of the FSAVC plan. But I now 
need to consider whether the reasons highlighted as beneficial to Mrs P, were actually 
beneficial to her, and therefore whether it was reasonable for Mrs P to have decided against 
the cheaper in-house AVC option. 
Was the FSAVC plan suitable?
I agree with our investigator, and Mrs Ps CMC, that portability and confidentiality from her 
employer were not significant reasons for Mrs P to have chosen the FSAVC plan over the 
cheaper in-house AVC plan. So Ive gone on to consider the other potential benefits of the 
FSAVC plan that the adviser noted. These are: investment provider choice, availability of 
open market option, the 2% enhancement to contributions, and access to ongoing advice.
Mrs Ps CMC said Mrs P was never likely to seek any benefit from alternative investment 
providers or the ability to switch funds. They also said she was never going to make use of 
the open market option. They said this was because, due to a lack of knowledge in the area, 
she wouldve taken the easiest option at retirement, which they felt was staying with the 
same provider. They said that the fact that she hadnt taken the open market option at 
retirement proved this point. They also felt that the value of the 2% enhancement to 
contributions hadnt been explained properly to Mrs P. Although they acknowledged there 
was no regulatory requirement to do so at the time, they said it wouldve been prudent for the adviser to discuss the enhancement in a clearer manner so that Mrs P wasnt misled. 
They didnt consider that there was any evidence which categorically showed why Mrs P 
wouldve chosen the FSAVC plan, which they said gave her less value for money, if 
everything had been explained to her in a clear and open manner.
Ive carefully considered the evidence and what both parties have said. Although I 
understand why Mrs Ps CMC have argued that the open market option and the wider 
investment choice provided no benefit to her, as she didnt make use of them, I dont agree 
that she didnt consider them of benefit at the time of the advice. I also consider that it was 
reasonable for Mrs P to have valued access to ongoing advice  this wasnt available at all 
with the in-house AVC option. And while I acknowledge Mrs Ps CMCs point that the value 
of the 2% enhancement to contributions was never illustrated to Mrs P, I agree with them 
that this wasnt a regulatory requirement at the time. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
uphold the complaint on this point. Overall, I consider that all of the points discussed here 
were true benefits of the FSAVC plan over the in-house alternative. Therefore Im satisfied 
that they all reduced any charging disparity between the FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive found no evidence that Aviva failed to give Mrs P 
suitable advice. I consider that the adviser met his obligations under the regulations at the 
time. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman