DRN-3226128
The complaint
A company, that Ill refer to as N, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed in opening 
a business bank account and this caused financial difficulties. Ms W, who is director of N, 
brings the complaint on Ns behalf. 
What happened
In October 2020 Ms W applied for a business bank account for N with Barclays. Barclays 
said it needed Ms W to update her personal identification details and to do this she had to 
visit a branch. Barclays said Ms W hadnt done this, so it closed her application on 
4 November 2020.
Ms W resubmitted the application in February 2021, visiting the branch in February to 
provide her identification information. The account was opened in March 2021. She 
complained about the delay in the account being opened. She said she had gone into the 
branch to provide her identification information back in October/November 2020. She said 
the delays in opening the account had meant shed lost income and was having significant 
financial difficulties.
Having listened to a number of conversations Ms W had with Barclays, our investigator 
thought it was likely Ms W had given Barclays her identification information in November 
2020. She thought Barclays had unnecessarily delayed in opening the business bank 
account and recommended Barclays paid N £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by its mistake.
Barclays agreed to the investigators recommendation, but Ms W didnt. In summary, she 
said:
At the same time she was trying to set up the account for N, she also applied for an 
account for a different company, which Barclays refused to open. This company 
would have been linked with N and be the main source of income.
Without the income from these companies, shes suffered significant financial 
difficulties, with her credit score in tatters and no way of repaying her mortgage.
Barclays needs to pay a serious amount of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the £200 compensation thats now been 
offered by Barclays is fair.
I need to be clear that Im not considering Ms Ws complaint about Barclays refusal to open 
an account for the other company. My colleague has already decided this is not a complaint 
we can consider. I can only look at the complaint about the delay in Barclays opening a bank 
account for N.
Barclays has already accepted the bank account likely could and should have been opened 
sooner, as Ms W probably had provided her identification information back in October or 
November 2020. What I need to decide is whether the offer of £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the impact the delay in opening the account had on N.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms Ws situation. From what shes told us, both her and 
her husband have had some very difficult times. Its clear she saw setting up the two 
companies as the answer to her problems. But I can only consider the impact Barclays 
mistake had on N and not Ms W personally. 
If there was evidence of N suffering a financial loss because of the delay in Barclays opening 
the bank account, I might be able to make an award for this. But from everything Ive seen, N 
hasnt ever done any business  the account hasnt been used since it was set up and the 
accounts submitted to Companies House show the company as dormant. From what Ms W 
has said, this is largely due to the other company not getting off the ground and not the 
delays in the bank account for N being set up. I also note what shes said about her contact 
leaving a business that was going to be key to the success of N before the account was 
opened. It follows that I have no way of knowing what profits, if any, N would have made if 
the bank account had been opened two or three months earlier. I therefore cant make any 
award for financial loss.
As a company N cant suffer distress but it can be inconvenienced. Ms W, on behalf of N, 
had to visit the branch more than once, which she wouldnt have had to do if Barclays hadnt 
made a mistake. She also contacted Barclays several times to find out what was happening 
with the application  only finding out in February that Barclays didnt have a record of 
receiving her identification information. So I do think N is due some compensation for this. 
But I think the £200 already offered by Barclays is fair and reflects the impact its mistake had 
on N.
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay N 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman