DRN-2105378
The complaint
Mr C complained about poor service he received during the transfer of his stocks and shares 
ISA from Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing to another 
provider. The transfer was made after previous mistakes had been made. There was some 
delay in transferring dividend funds, his account was blocked and iWeb refused to 
communicate.
What happened
Halifax wrote to Mr C on 31 January 2019 explaining that they were withdrawing their 
services and that Mr C had one month to make alternate arrangements. This letter also 
confirmed that there would be no charges for transferring following the closure of the 
account and that the account would remain available and operate as normal throughout the 
notice period.
A letter dated 13 February 2019 confirmed that Mr Cs request to transfer holdings to 
another provider had been received. This letter also confirmed that a charge of £75 would be 
made for the service and that UK securities could take two to three weeks to transfer.
On 17 February 2019 Mr C contacted Halifax to inform them that he had been charged £75 
for the transfer and that he was unable to access his account. Mr C contacted Halifax on six 
further occasions chasing a response to his initial email and informing them of the problems 
he was experiencing. On 21 February 2019 Mr C confirmed that that the £75 transfer fee 
had been refunded. 
Halifax told us that during the notice period Mr C had access to his account via the 
telephone service and that he should provide evidence to the contrary if he had issues 
accessing his account.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He thought Mr C had shown that he was 
having trouble accessing his account as he was contacting Halifax frequently to tell them. 
Halifaxs initial letter confirms that Mr C could continue to use his account as normal. Mr C 
did not normally conduct his business via the telephone. Our investigator understood why he 
did not use this service during the notice period and why he contacted Halifax about this 
problem. He also thought Halifax could have told Mr C that he was only able to access his 
account via the telephone service during the notice period rather than allowing him to 
continually e-mail them.
Halifax has explained the dividend pay date was 1 April 2019 and this was settled in to the 
iWeb account on 2 April 2019. Halifax went on to explain that the PDF statement correctly 
used the pay date of 1 April 2019. Halifaxs final response also explained the process it 
followed when transferring the dividend to Interactive Investor.
Our investigator thought the time taken to complete the transfer was fair. However, he felt 
that the service Mr C received whilst the transfer was being carried out fell short of what he 
should have expected to receive. He thought Halifax should pay £100 for the trouble and 
upset experienced whilst the transfer was being carried out.
Mr C replied and wanted an explanation about how the dividend received by iWeb was 
transferred to another provider. It was processed by the other provider as a new contribution 
rather than a dividend payment. 
Halifax did not agree with the investigator. In summary they said:
Mr C had a contractual agreement in place that in the times the online service was 
unavailable he would use the telephone service. There would therefore be no 
grounds to compensate for the online service not being available at any point. How 
Mr C preferred or usually used the service is of no legal relevance.
They dispute there is any evidence that Mr C made repeated attempts to access his 
account and was prevented from doing so or that he was unaware of the position.
Mr C was never charged the transfer fee.
Our investigator explained that Mr C contacted Halifax a number of times and his enquiries 
went unanswered. He accepted the transfer fee was refunded, but it was an example of the 
poor service provided to Mr C. He also accepted Halifaxs explanation about the dividend 
payment was plausible. The evidence from the other provider was no more reliable than the 
evidence from Halifax. He remained of the view that Halifax should pay £100 for the poor 
service Mr C received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important for me to say I have taken note of previous complaints made by Mr C 
and his wife. Clearly, the relationship between Halifax and Mr C had broken down. Halifax 
wrote to Mr C explaining they would close his account. There is no complaint about this 
point.
Mr C says that he was prevented from trading. Halifax say he could trade but would have to 
make a telephone call to do so. Mr C was not prevented from trading, but it was not the 
service he was used to having. In my view, Halifax was entitled to say trades could only be 
made over the telephone. I dont think there was anything wrong in doing so.
Mr C emailed Halifax a number of times in February 2019. Those emails were not answered. 
I agree with our investigator that Halifax should have given some response to Mr C as a 
matter of good service. I also agree that initially charging the fee of £75 was wrong and 
Halifax should have informed Mr C when it had been refunded.
I am satisfied that Halifax did not provide the level of service to Mr C I would expect. 
Regardless of previous complaints, Halifax was still required to act in their clients best 
interests. Although Halifax were entitled to close the account, they still had to administer the 
transfer. This included the communication with Mr C.
I have given considerable thought to the issue of the dividend payment. There is no dispute 
this was paid over in good time. Mr C is concerned about the description given to the other 
provider. I have carefully reviewed the correspondence on this issue. There is a limited 
amount of information for me to consider. Essentially, Halifax say they sent the dividend as 
part of the transfer. The other provider says there was no explanation, so they treated it as a 
new contribution. However, they did investigate the issue and the funds have been correctly 
added to Mr Cs account.In my view, the evidence is not clear about whether there was an error, and if so, who made 
the error. There is not enough evidence for me to make a finding that Halifax was at fault. I 
understand Mr Cs point that Halifax have been reluctant to provide evidence. However, I do 
not think the evidence from the other provider is any stronger on this point. 
I have considered whether I should make further enquiries to establish where the fault, if any 
lies. Our investigator explained there is no financial loss. The only issue would therefore be 
whether any payment should be made for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C. In 
my view, there were a number of issues about the transfer where Halifax did not provide the 
service I would expect. I have already said I think they should pay some compensation for 
this. I therefore have to consider whether it would be a proportionate approach to make 
further enquiries.
Even if I concluded Halifax were at fault for the transfer of the dividend payment, I would only 
say this was a minor issue. In my view, that is adequately reflected in the award of £100 for 
the errors Halifax made in the transfer of the ISA. I would not increase the award even if 
Halifax had not correctly described the dividend payment as part of a transfer. I therefore do 
not think it is appropriate to make further enquiries to establish whether Halifax made an 
error about the transfer of the dividend payment.
In summary, I am satisfied Halifax made errors in the transfer of Mr Cs ISA. This caused 
him some distress and inconvenience. I think a payment of £100 is fair compensation for 
those errors.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing 
must pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their errors for the 
reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman