DRN-2002933
 
The complaint
Miss R believes Everyday Lending Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan shed 
applied for.
What happened
Miss R was approved for a £1,500 loan with Everyday Lending, to be repaid over 24 months 
at an interest rate of 199.6%. This was to be used to repay existing credit and started in 
December 2018, with repayments of £160.50 a month. 
Miss R has complained that Everyday Lending didnt act responsibly when approving the 
loan, and she cant afford the monthly repayments.
Our investigator thought Everyday Lending had acted responsibly. She said the checks they 
did before approving the loan were proportionate, although she thought they shouldve used 
Miss Rs income before overtime. But she said that, after the existing credit was repaid, Miss 
R had sufficient disposable income for her living expenses. And the checks Everyday 
Lending did didnt indicate that Miss R was in financial difficulties or that the loan repayments 
werent sustainable.
So the investigator didnt think Everyday Lending had done anything wrong. But, as Miss R 
was uncomfortable dealing with her local branch, she thought it was reasonable that Miss R 
be allowed to deal with Everyday Lendings central office going forward.
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said she thinks the loan was unaffordable 
and the income Everyday Lending used wasnt what she usually picked up. Shes also said 
that her disposable income was only £111 a month, which doesnt allow room for essentials 
like petrol or repayments to my other lenders. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. Miss R originally applied for a loan of £3,000. When assessing the application, Everyday 
Lending checked Miss Rs credit file, her most recent bank statement and her most recent 
payslip. After doing so, they only approved a loan of £1,500.
Ive seen the credit report Everyday Lending relied upon when considering Miss Rs loan 
application, and the audit report they did based on this. These show that Miss R had five 
short-term loans with a total outstanding balance of £1,553. She also had two longer term 
loans with monthly payments totalling £224 a month. Theres nothing on the credit report that 
indicates Miss R was struggling to maintain her existing monthly repayments.
The payslip Miss R provided Everyday Lending shows an monthly pick-up of £1,188. This 
figure includes £77 overtime, and the year to date income figure shows that overtime is a 
regular part of Miss Rs income  an average of £66 a month for the period April to 
November 2019. Based on this, while Everyday Lending couldve reduced the income to 
account for the average overtime, I dont think it was unreasonable that the overtime was 
used in the affordability calculation.
The bank statements Miss R provided Everyday Lending as part of the application process 
show limited regular outgoings, outside of her existing loan repayments. Everyday Lending 
said they deducted £447 for Miss Rs outgoings  in line with the amount recommended by 
the Office of National Statistics (ONS). Miss R has said her rent and outgoings for her car 
and phone were £323 a month plus petrol. And her bank statements show she spent £130 
on petrol in the month before she applied for the loan. This meant that her regular outgoings 
were £453 a month. So I dont think Everyday Lending using a figure of £447 a month was 
unreasonable.
Based on a monthly income of £1,188, with deductions of £447 and existing loans of £224; 
this would leave Miss R with a disposable income of £517 a month. After deducting the new 
loan of £160, Miss R wouldve been left with £357 a month. 
Given the above, and because Miss R was replacing five loans with monthly repayments of 
£935 with a single loan at £160 a month, I dont think Everyday Lending needed to do any 
additional checks. The checks they did were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances. And they showed the loan was affordable.
At the time of application, Miss R owed £1,553 to the lenders she was intending to repay 
with the £1,500 she was borrowing from Everyday Lending. This leaves a £53 shortfall. But, 
given there was a short period of time between application and the loan being granted, its 
likely that at least one payment to one of these loans wouldve gone through. And the 
minimum payment to any of these loans was £65. Which means that the total to be repaid 
wouldve been below the loan amount at the time it was taken out.
And even if this wasnt the case, given the disposable income Miss R had, and the amount 
she was saving each month, then I dont consider the fact that she may have to find an 
additional £53 to be a problem. So I dont think this was a reason why Everyday Lending 
shouldve refused the loan.
Miss R has said that Everyday Lending shouldve used her before overtime income, which 
was £1,145 a month. And she thinks that deducting the £447 recommended by the ONS, 
and her direct debits of £587, this would leave her with £111 a month  not enough to pay 
Everyday Lending.
For the reasons stated above, I think it was reasonable for Everyday Lending to consider 
overtime  it was a regular part of Miss Rs income. And I also think that the £447 covered Miss Rs rent, regular outgoings (not including her existing loan repayments) and petrol. So I 
cant agree this meant she didnt have enough income to pay Everyday Lending.
Even with an income of £1,145 a month, after deducting the £447 and the loan payments of 
£224, Miss R wouldve been left with £474 to pay Everyday Lendings payment of £160.
So, while I appreciate that Miss R is now struggling to maintain payments, because of the 
above I dont think Everyday Lending did anything wrong by approving the loan. And I wont 
be asking them to do anything more. However, Id expect Everyday Lending to deal with 
Miss Rs situation positively and sensitively. So I agree with the investigator that Miss R 
should be allowed to deal with their central office as she feels uncomfortable dealing with her 
local office. And Id expect Everyday Lending to allow this to happen.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25August2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman