DRN-2207183
The complaint
  Mrs K has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ks been helped by her husband. But, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to her husbands comments as being Mrs Ks.
Reference to Haven includes its agents.
What happened
  Mrs K was in an accident that wasn't her fault. She initially approached an accident 
management company to oversee her claim for her. But after the other driver (the third party) 
disputed who was at fault for the accident, Mrs K asked Haven to deal with her claim under 
the terms of her policy.
Shortly after Haven wrote to Mrs K, it said:
based on the information you have provided we believe your vehicle will be a total 
loss. This means that it is not economic or safe to repair your vehicle
It asked Mrs K to provide some documents and told her it would collect her car and contact 
her to discuss settling her claim.
Around six weeks later Haven contacted Mrs K. it told her an engineer said her car was 
repairable. So it wouldnt settle the claim on a total loss basis and said it would repair the 
car. Mrs K told Haven shed already bought a replacement car. She then withdrew her claim 
and the third partys insurer contacted Haven to say that it was repairing the car. 
Mrs K was unhappy with Havens handling of the claim and brought her complaint about that 
to us. Two of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks complaint. Both thought that Havens 
communication could have been better and said it should pay Mrs K £250 compensation to 
reflect the impact of that.
Mrs K didn't think that went far enough, so her complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. 
While progressing this complaint Mrs K has made a number of points. But in this decision I 
don't intend to address every point shes made while the complaint has been with us. 
Instead Ill focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of her complaint.
Mrs K initially appointed an accident management company to oversee her claim. And it 
seems that, before Haven became involved in it, a garage had assessed Mrs Ks car and 
thought it would be uneconomical to repair. And when Haven took over the handling of the 
claim the garage told Haven that the car would be a total loss. And Haven passed that 
information on to Mrs K.
Mrs K then bought a new car to replace the car she thought was going to be a total loss. But, 
after an engineer acting for Haven assessed it, he noted that the costs to repair it were less 
than half of the cars pre-accident value. In other words the engineer didn't think the car was 
a total loss and should be repaired. So Haven told Mrs K it would arrange for the car to be 
repaired. 
Mrs Ks policy allows Haven to decide how it wants to settle a claim. And given the estimated 
cost to repair the car was less than half of its total loss value, I think Havens decision to 
repair the car rather than deeming it a total loss was reasonable. I understand that, by that 
time, Mrs K had already bought a replacement car. But I don't think Haven could have 
known she was going to do that. And while its earlier email did say it believed her car would 
be a total loss, it hadn't told her it would undoubtedly settle her claim on that basis. In fact it 
said it would contact her to discuss settling it. But it hadn't done that at the time Mrs K 
bought her new car and settled the finance on her old car. So, I dont think it can be held 
responsible for the decision Mrs K then made. 
It seems that Mrs K thinks that as Haven had initially indicated her car was likely to be a total 
loss it should settle her claim in that manner. But I don't think thats fair. I agree that, when it 
told her it believed her car was a total loss, it could have given Mrs K more information about 
the next steps, including that it needed to verify that the car was a total loss before settling 
the claim on that basis. But I don't think it would be fair for Haven to have to pay a total loss 
settlement for a car that was clearly repairable. So I think it was reasonable for Haven to 
refuse to settle the claim on a total loss basis.
Mrs K later told Haven that she didn't want to pursue the claim on her own policy. By that 
time the third party had accepted liability for the accident. And because the crash wasn't 
Mrs Ks fault, she didn't want to pay her excess. It might help if I explain that Mrs Ks policy 
says her excess is the amount that she has to pay towards any claim. And it also says 
Haven will only repair or replace a car once the excess has been paid. So the excess is 
always payable when a claim is made no matter whos at fault. Its a cost Mrs K agreed to 
pay when she bought her policy. And while its usual for an insurer like Haven to try to 
recover the excess from the third partys insurer, I don't find it unreasonable that Haven told 
Mrs K shed need to pay her excess if she claimed from her policy.
Then, as the third party had admitted fault for the accident, Mrs K approached the third 
partys insurer directly to repair her car. In correspondence with us Mrs Ks said that she 
didn't do this. But I've seen evidence from the third partys insurer telling Haven that Mrs K 
had claimed directly from it. And, that its engineers had said the car was repairable, and it 
had repaired her car. I don't think those things would have happened if Mrs K hadn't 
approached the third party insurer herself or asked her accident management company or 
other representative to do so on her behalf. Thats because, unless Mrs K claimed from the 
third partys insurer directly, it wouldn't have been involved in repairing her car. Mrs Ks told 
us that the third partys insurer hasn't returned the car to her. But any issues she has with 
the repair process or location of the car following the repairs is something that she needs to 
take up with the third partys insurer directly, as Haven isn't responsible for their actions. 
I understand Mrs K feels very strongly that Haven treated her unfairly. But for the reasons 
given above I think its decision that the car was repairable was a reasonable one. Clearly., 
its communication could have been better. And for that reason I think its fair that Haven pay 
Mrs K £250 compensation to reflect the impact of that on her. I know Mrs K doesn't think that goes far enough but Im satisfied its a reasonable sum. Thats because it's in line with 
awards I make in cases of similar seriousness. But, if Mrs K doesn't agree then shes under 
no obligation to accept my decision. And, in those circumstances, she may take whatever 
action she feels necessary to resolve her concerns, for example through the courts. 
For completeness Mrs Ks said that she incurred solicitors costs in pursuing this complaint. 
That might be the case. But I don't think the matter was so complicated that it needed a 
lawyers involvement. And it was Mrs Ks choice to engage a solicitor. So I don't think Haven 
needs to cover any solicitors fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs K £250 compensation to address her distress and 
inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs K has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.