DRN-4379098
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following 
faults she reported with her light.
Where Ive referred to Aviva throughout, this includes any actions carried out by the 
company handling the claim and acting on Avivas behalf.
What happened
Miss J has a home emergency policy underwritten by Aviva. This includes cover for 
emergencies such as loss of power to electrical circuits and failed sockets.
In January 2023 Miss J reported problems with the light in her toilet. Aviva carried out an 
inspection but didnt identify any faults with the light, so they also refused to change the light 
fitting for a new one which Miss J had purchased.
Miss J contacted Aviva unhappy with the first appointment and a second engineer attended 
the following day. They didnt identify any faults with the light either and also refused to 
change the light fitting under the insurance policy cover. They did offer to change the 
fluorescent tube for a small fee. They also said they could change the fitting, but this would 
be privately outside the policy terms.
As Miss J was unhappy with Aviva, she approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said there was 
no evidence to support there was a fault with the light or valid claim under the policy, so he 
didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably by declining to change the light fitting. He didnt 
recommend Aviva do anything further.
Miss J didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Miss J, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Miss Js policy covers electrical emergencies, for example loss of power to electrical circuits, 
broken light sockets and breakdowns of the fuse box. Miss J reported her toilet light was 
faulty, so Aviva arranged appointments to inspect it. 
However, neither engineer that attended concluded there was anything wrong with the light. 
Whilst I note Miss J says the first appointment was carried out too quickly, if the engineer 
didnt find any faults with the light during the visit, I dont think they would be acting 
unreasonably by the visit being short in duration.
The second engineer, who was there longer, also concluded there was no fault with the light 
or dimming. 
As neither engineer identified any fault with the light which would be covered by the policy, I 
dont think they acted unfairly by declining to change the light fitting as requested by 
Miss J.
I recognise that the second engineer offered to change the fluorescent tube at a cost of £5, 
but replacing bulbs and fluorescent tubes isnt covered, and even if they needed replacing, 
this doesnt necessarily mean the fitting is faulty. And the fact here is they (and the previous 
engineer) didnt identify anything wrong with the light or fitting, which would be covered 
under the policy. So, Aviva wouldnt be responsible for changing the light fitting in the first 
place, nor in replacing it with one which Miss J had already purchased.  
I also acknowledge the engineer offered to change the fitting privately for a cost of £70 and 
Miss J says they didnt turn up. Aviva has explained that their engineers shouldnt offer 
private works during the insurance appointments, but the fact they did, in my view, further 
supports that this wasnt something covered under the policy. And any actions, or service 
issues from the engineer privately, and outside of the policy terms, wouldnt be the 
responsibility of Aviva.
Ive considered Avivas actions here and whether the evidence supports there was an 
insured event under the policy, which Aviva then unfairly declined. But based on all the 
information provided, Im unable to conclude thats the case. With this in mind, I dont think 
Aviva has acted unreasonably by declining to change the light fitting.
Our investigator also said that if Miss J has any evidence to support that there was an issue 
with the light, that should have been covered, then she should provide this. However, Miss J 
has said its unlikely her electrician would remember as it was several months ago and 
hasnt provided anything from them in support of her position.
However, if Miss J does now obtain any further information, she should submit this to Aviva 
for consideration. But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly by 
not replacing the light fitting, so I wont be directing them to reimburse the cost Miss J has 
incurred in doing so.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman