DRN-3438481
The complaint
Mrs H complained about National Westminster Bank Plc. There was a fraudulent transaction 
on her debit card, and Mrs H is unhappy about:
- the time it took her to get through by phone;
- having to contact companies to update them with her new card details, when 
NatWests adviser had told her she wouldnt have to; and
- the amount of compensation NatWest paid her. 
What happened
Mrs H had an account with NatWest. NatWest had issued her with a replacement debit card 
in early July 2021. On 12 August, Mrs H noticed a £91 transaction to an online company 
which she hadnt authorised. It was after 8pm, and she found NatWests fraud team had 
closed for the day, so she rang again the next morning. 
Mrs H said it took her 50 minutes to get through. The adviser told her the money would be 
refunded and a replacement card issued. Mrs H asked what was happening, and the adviser 
said NatWest was having problems with that online company. Mrs H also said she asked 
whether shed need to contact companies for whom future payments would be due on the 
old card, and the adviser told her she wouldnt need to.
NatWest ordered a replacement card that day, and dispatched it on 15 August. The £91 was 
refunded on 18 August. Mrs H complained about the service from the fraud team, and asked 
to be compensated for her time and phone calls. 
In its final response to Mrs Hs complaint, NatWest said it had been made aware of 
fraudulent activities, in which NatWest customers details had been compromised. It said this 
had happened because it had received information about potential data breaches with 
certain companies  including the online company on Mrs Hs transaction. NatWest said it 
had issued customers with a new debit card, as well as refunding any unauthorised 
transactions.
NatWest also explained that the online payment, which Mrs H had reported as fraud, was a 
continuous payment authority. It had put a stop on future payments, but explained that this 
couldnt guarantee there wouldnt be any more future transactions, and it asked her to get in 
touch if she saw any future transactions to that company.
NatWest apologised for its adviser having given Mrs H incorrect information about not 
needing to tell other retailers about her new card, and it paid her £75 compensation. It said 
this was to cover Mrs Hs time, and the cost of four calls, at 9p a minute for two hours. It said 
she could submit evidence if shed incurred longer on the phone calls.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said shed asked NatWest if there 
had been a data breach. And shed received the replacement card in July, which NatWest 
had said was because of the problem with the online company, and now she had to update 
companies with her card details all over again. She said that surely a skeleton fraud team 
should be in place 23/7, and she wanted NatWests phone numbers changed to freephone. 
She also wanted more compensation for her time, and stress and inconvenience. And Mrs H 
also said she wanted compensation for what she believed was a serious data breach.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said that unfortunately fraud does 
occur, and the stress and inconvenience can be significant. He said NatWest had done what 
it could to minimise the risk of fraud happening again, by replacing the card. He said the 
compensation was fair.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said that the investigator hadnt addressed the only possibility that 
this would happen on a new card was down to a serious data breach. She said the money 
had been replaced but what was the explanation when her detail may have been 
compromised, because no fraud had taken place till NatWest had issued her new card in 
July. She said the fact that it kept happening meant NatWest wasnt doing anything about it. 
She was worried there had been a serious data breach and hacking at NatWest. Mrs H 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO ) which regulates compliance with data 
protection regulations and law, and it can say whether theres been a breach under these. 
This service can often look at some of these issues, but specifically in relation to an 
individual customers complaint.
Here, we asked NatWest exactly what happened with the online company. It explained that it 
can never say for sure, but often a customer or their family may have used a firm before. If 
this hasnt happened here, it could be data breaches from other companies. I cant say for 
sure, but it looks more likely that the issue is with the online company, especially as NatWest 
said in its final response that it had received information about potential data breaches with 
certain companies, including the one named on Mrs Hs account. 
So I havent seen anything that makes me think that NatWest were responsible for the 
issues that led to the payment here, but Ive gone on to consider how NatWest handled Mrs 
Hs complaint about the disputed transaction for £91 in August 2021. In her reply to the 
investigators view, Mrs H said it has happened again recently too, and referred to a 
different organisation, but she hasnt raised a specific complaint about any other disputed 
transaction apart from the one to the online company in August. So its only the £91 
transaction in August 2021 which Im considering.
After the £91 was taken from Mrs Hs account, I think NatWest did all it could in the 
circumstances. It refunded her promptly with the £91; issued a new card; and paid £75 
compensation for phone call costs, time, and the inconvenience arising from the incorrect 
information about contacting genuine retailers to provide them with her new card details. 
I recognise that fraud is upsetting, and waiting 50 minutes to get through to a NatWest 
adviser would have been frustrating and inconvenient. But in its final response, NatWest 
explained that it had had information about potential data breaches with certain companies  
which had resulted in fraudulent continuous authority transfers. This would have meant that 
thered have been a lot of customers trying to get through at the same time. Although this 
wasnt ideal for Mrs H, it does explain why there was such pressure on the phone system.Ive looked at what NatWest did to try to prevent recurrence with that same online company. 
It had tried to prevent frauds by issuing new cards in July, because of the information it had 
received about the frauds. This transaction was a continuous authority transfer. These can 
be cancelled by customers  but only once they know about them, and the August 
transaction was the first one attempted on Mrs Hs account. Banks can cancel a continuous 
payment authority, and do what they can to prevent any repeat attempts. But there is no 
guarantee that fraudsters wont try to make payments again. 
So I consider that NatWest acted fairly in all the circumstances of this case.
Finally, Mrs H has also said that she wants NatWest to provide a freephone number, and the 
ability to report a fraud 24/7.  But banks can make their own decisions about policies about 
matters such as the services it provides and the hours in which it does so. This service 
wouldnt normally get involved in such matters, because they dont relate to an individuals 
personal complaint but are generic issues which would be dealt with by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So while I understand Mrs Hs point, this isnt something 
we can recommend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman