DRN-3043308
Complaint
Mr V is unhappy TSB Bank Plc (TSB) has increased the interest rate on his overdraft to 
39.9%.
Background
In January 2020, TSB wrote to Mr V and told him that the way it was charging for overdrafts 
was changing. It would no longer be charging daily or monthly usage fees. But the APR that 
would now be applied to his overdraft would be 39.9%. Mr V complained to TSB saying he 
never agreed to this rate change. 
TSB didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. It said its terms and conditions permitted it to change 
the rate it applied on overdrafts and it was satisfied that Mr V wasnt treated unfairly. Mr V 
remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Vs concerns. He didnt think TSB had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr V unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr V 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr V is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair increase in TSBs overdraft 
interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr V if it implemented these changes unfairly. Mr V says 
that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as he didnt and still doesnt accept 
the changes. 
But while Mr V may have been happier with the lower interest rate its, ultimately, up to TSB 
how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats a business decision for it to 
make. And it communicated the changes in advance of them happening. Equally, the 
changes were further delayed by temporary relief measures it applied as a result of the 
pandemic. 
I understand Mr Vs strength of feeling on this matter and why he might be unhappy at 
having to pay a higher interest rate. But Im satisfied that Mr V is able to exit his overdraft 
and is able to stop using his facility and have it removed, if he doesnt want to accept the 
new pricing structure. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB implemented these 
overdraft changes in a way that treated Mr V unfairly. And as the terms and conditions 
permitted TSB to make these changes in the first place, whether or not Mr V wanted them to 
happen or he formally accepted them, it follows that Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman