DRN-1615304
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mistakenly 
told him he would be receiving a lump sum and an uplift to his pension following a review it 
carried out. And once it realised its mistake, the compensation it has offered is too low. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that the £800 offered by Prudential for the 
loss of expectation and distress caused was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill explain my conclusions:
I can completely understand why this has caused such upset to Mr M. Prudential 
hasnt covered itself in glory throughout the process. It made the initial error and then 
made an error in paying the compensation as well. However, the compensation it has 
paid is towards the higher end of awards for trouble and upset. So, I think it has 
recognised that its error has caused a lot of upset.
Whilst I appreciate the compensation offered isnt comparable to what Mr M was told 
he was going to receive in extra benefits, it isnt required to be so. 
Had it done everything correctly in the first place, Mr M wouldnt have received 
anything from Prudential as no redress was actually due from the review. But he has 
suffered raised expectations and then had that taken away, plus the stress and upset 
this has all caused. The only way to put things right is to address this by putting a 
value to the mistake and the consequences this has had on Mr M.
Whilst I appreciate the time that the review took might have been frustrating for Mr M, 
this was a review Prudential initiated (as directly by the regulator) and contacted him 
about. And before he received the result of the review, he wouldnt have known 
whether he would receive anything from the review.
The time between Mr Ms expectations of a substantial increase in payments plus a 
large lump sum and finding out that this was incorrect was approximately two weeks. 
And whilst I understand that Mr M and his wife quite reasonably made plans in their 
minds for this money, fortunately they hadnt actually spent this money when the 
mistake was realised. So they arent financially worse off for this error.
Mr M and his wife have my sympathy, I can only imagine how they must have felt in 
finding out this was a mistake. Whilst putting a price on this is obviously not an exact 
science, I do have guidelines which I have to consider when deciding what 
represents a fair and reasonable award. And having considered these, I think the 
offer made by Prudential is broadly in line with these guidelines. And so I wont be 
recommending any further award.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman