DRN-1783907
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) at the end of his hire agreement.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr L entered into a hire agreement with MBFS in 2017 for a new vehicle. In doing so 
he agreed to be bound by its terms and conditions. These set out that the vehicle 
needed to be kept in good repair and condition and maintained in line with the 
manufacturers standards. It then set out the consequences of not returning the 
vehicle in line with the vehicle return conditions. MBFS has said that Mr L was 
provided with the vehicle return conditions both at the outset of the lease and six 
months before the end of the agreement. Given this, I find that M L was made aware 
of the requirements regarding the return conditions of the vehicle.
The agreement explains that when the vehicle is returned an inspection will take 
place. This happened on 4 December 2019, at the expiry of the lease. I have looked 
at the inspection and this records the mileage (Mr L hasnt disputed the excess 
mileage charge). It also reports three areas of damage: the bumper, qtr panel RHR, 
and wing RHF. 
To consider whether the charges have been applied fairly, I have considered both the 
information included in the vehicle return conditions and the industry guidelines 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). These 
provide guidelines on what is considered acceptable wear and tear. 
The photograph provided shows a crack on the bumper. The return conditions say 
that cracks arent acceptable, and I note the BVRLA guidelines set out that scratches 
up to 25mm can be acceptable if they can be polished out. The damage to the 
bumper doesnt fit that definition and so I accept that it falls outside of normal wear 
and tear. Because of this I find it reasonable that a charge was applied.
Mr L has said that the bumper didnt need to be replaced given the damage and that 
repair should have taken place. I can understand his comment given the size of the 
damage. However, as the damage is clearly visible and the inspection company has 
confirmed that a replacement was required and was applied, I do not find I can say it 
is unfair that Mr L has been charged for this.
The photographs of the qtr panel and wing show damage that falls outside of the 
return conditions in respect to chips and I find it also falls outside of the BVRLA 
guidelines for fair wear and tear. Given this I do not find I can say it is unreasonable 
that Mr L was charged for repairs to these two parts of the vehicle.
While I understand why Mr L is upset at the charges that were applied at the end of 
his agreement, as the damage can be seen in the photographs and this falls outside 
what is accepted, I do not find I can say that the charges have been applied 
incorrectly. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman