DRN-2042198
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out the PPI policy in 2001 when they applied for their mortgage. They also 
took out a policy in 2002 when they applied for a further advance, but cancelled it before 
making any payment. This decision considers only the 2001 sale. 
Nationwide cant confirm where the sale took place, Mr and Mrs J recall it was in a meeting 
and I think thats most likely. The policy was in Mr Js sole name and gave him 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence 
and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs J that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs J say they felt under pressure to take out the policy. They 
say they were led to believe it would not be looked on favourably for their mortgage 
application if they didnt. Nationwide disputes this saying it was made clear the cover was 
optional and they were under no obligation to arrange it. 
I cant know what was discussed during the sale. Nationiwde doesnt have all the paperwork 
from the sale, but thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It 
has provided their Mortgage Illustration which shows the cost of the PPI was set out 
separately. Also they only selected unemployment cover, not the much more common 
package of accident, sickness and unemployment cover. This suggests to me there was 
discussion and they understood they had choices.
I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Js comments, and I dont doubt these are their 
honest recollections of the sale. But I have to take into account how long ago the sale was 
and how that might affect what they recall. And I havent found enough other evidence to 
show they were pressured to buy PPI. Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
uphold their complaint on this point.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs J so it didnt have to check the 
policy was right for Mr J. Mr and Mrs J say that it was recommended to them. However, I 
dont need to make a finding on this point as even if Nationwide had recommended the 
policy I think it was right for Mr J. 
I say this because it gave up to 12 months redundancy cover which would have paid out in 
addition to any payment from his work. It would have allowed them to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at a difficult time. They told us they 
had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed them to use these for other living 
expenses whilst Mr J wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. 
Mr and Mrs J were borrowing a large sum of money, over a long term, secured against their 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage repayments, I think the PPI 
wouldve have been useful for Mr and Mrs J if Mr J lost his job. And as they were paying for 
it monthly, they could cancel it if Mr Js situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
Nationwide also had to give Mr and Mrs J enough information so they could decide for 
themselves whether they wanted to buy it. Its possible the information the society gave
Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this 
because:
Mr J was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mr J wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those on certain types of employment contract. As he couldve benefitted from the full 
extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
The cost was set out clearly on their Mortgage Illustration and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
In summary, it seems Mr and Mrs J chose to take out the policy for Mr J and so appear to 
have wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the 
policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman