DRN-2808124
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) decision to decline a 
subsidence claim made under their buildings insurance policy. Any references to Aviva 
include its agents.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L have made a number of claims to their insurer for subsidence at their home. 
It had a history of subsidence, with remedial works being carried out between 2010 and 
2013.
Mr L and Mrs L identified some further cracking in 2017. Shortly after some remedial works 
were carried out, further cracking appeared. In May 2018, Avivas loss adjuster visited the 
property. He said it was likely a tree in a neighbouring home was influencing the stability of 
the property. It was decided a further period of monitoring would take place. The monitoring 
ran until the end of the year and ended when the report indicated no subsidence related 
movement had been identified since May 2018. 
Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree and instructed their own engineer. Their engineer carried out a 
visual inspection of their home. He said when the monitoring was taken place, these should 
have focused on the kitchen window, rather than elsewhere in the property. 
Mr L and Mrs Ls engineer said the loss adjusters decision to dismiss movement as non-
subsidence was based on monitoring studs set up across cracks in the internal non-
loadbearing staircase walls. He considered the monitoring should have been based on main 
rear elevation walls where subsidence originally occurred. He concluded the external 
cracking was related to the original claim which was not successfully resolved by earlier 
works. He also concluded the cracks in staircase walls occurred in a similar position to the 
previous repairs. In summary, he considered it likely explanation is that they have been 
caused by original subsidence damage and should be included in any super-structure 
repairs.
In March 2019, Aviva issued its final response. It said the monitoring showed there was no 
movement at the home, so it declined the claim for subsidence. Mr L and Mrs L provided 
Aviva with a copy of his engineers report, which Aviva agreed to pass to their engineers to 
be considered. Aviva said Mr L and Mrs L could instruct a builder to try and help them 
identify the cause of the damage. However, Aviva also agreed to carry out a further period of 
level monitoring at the home. 
The property was monitored between May and December 2019. The level monitoring report 
again showed very little sign of movement over a period of eight months. Avivas overall 
conclusion was that the policy was experiencing some normal seasonal movement. The loss 
adjuster said any other movement identified was lateral and not downward. This mean it 
wasnt covered by the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr L and Mrs L again complained about the 
claim remaining declined and referred their complaint to this service. They said to put things 
right, they wanted the remedial works carried out at their home and to be refunded the costs 
incurred instructing their independent engineer. 
Our investigator considered Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint. She said whilst their independent 
engineers report was very detailed, it was only a visual report. She was more persuaded by 
the level monitoring reports provided by Aviva. Our investigator concluded Aviva was entitled 
to decline the claim for subsidence. Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree, so this matter has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful there are a number of other issues that have been raised by Mr L and Mrs L. 
Many of these were referred to this service more than six months after the final response 
letter was issued in March 2019. As Aviva hasnt given its consent for these issued to be 
investigated, Im unable to consider them. My decision here focuses on Avivas decision to 
decline the claim for subsidence after the last round of monitoring ended in December 2019.
Mr L and Mrs L provided a copy of their engineers report. The engineer questioned whether 
the monitoring instructed by Aviva was carried out in the most appropriate locations in the 
home. The placement of the monitoring was carried out between March and December 
2018, and Aviva issued a final reason And when presented with this report, Aviva passed it 
to its loss adjuster for consideration, as Id expect. They reviewed it and instructed a further 
period of monitoring around the property, from March to December 2019.
I appreciate Mr L and Mrs L have concerns about the reappearance of cracking over a 
number of years and they feel that they been given conflicting information during the long 
running history of this claim. I can understand their frustrations and worries in respect of this. 
However, it is not the case that cracking appearing in the same place as it has previously 
automatically meant their home was suffering from subsidence again.  
My role here is to decide if Im satisfied Aviva acted appropriately in response to the 
information Mr L and Mrs L provided it from their engineer. After considering the comments 
in the report, another period of monitoring was arranged. Im satisfied this was the right 
process here. I say this, whilst mindful of the level of detail in the report provided by Mr L and 
Mrs L, their engineer specifically stated his inspection was a visual one. Given the history of 
claims made in relation to subsidence, I wouldnt expect an insurer to act based only on a 
visual inspection without carrying out some further level monitoring around the property.  
Whilst the monitoring instructed in May 2019 was for a shorter period than Id sometimes 
expect to see, I dont think Mr L and Mrs L have been disadvantaged here. Its not unusual to 
see some movement of a home occurring during the hotter months. Aviva said it decided to 
stop monitoring in the home in December 2019, when it became clear that there was no 
movement after eight months. 
Ive reviewed the readings between May and December 2019. The monitoring report 
provided clearly shows there was very little movement in the home. As the monitoring did not 
clearly show the home was suffering from subsidence or any downward movement, Im 
satisfied it was appropriate for Aviva to stop monitoring in December 2019. It follows, Im not 
intending to require Aviva to take any further action in response to Mr L and Mrs Ls claim for 
subsidence.  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr L and Mrs L. I also understand 
their hope that the report they arranged would support them in their view the home is 
continuing to move. It will be for Mr L and Mrs L to decide how to move forward now, with the indications from Avivas loss adjuster that their property might be experiencing some lateral 
movement. However, for the reasons I have given, Im unable to conclude Mr L and Mrs Ls 
home is suffering from subsidence. It follows, I wont be requiring Aviva to refund them the 
cost of this report. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman