DRN-1232186
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Where I refer to esure I include its engineer and others for whose actions I hold esure 
responsible.
Ms B was living alone. On 4 June 2019 she reported that a burglar had broken into her 
home, stolen her car keys and stolen her car. Police recovered the car about a week later in 
a damaged condition. On 18 June 2019 esure decided it was a total loss. 
Ms B complained that esure incorrectly said it had sent her a text with its total loss 
settlement based on its valuation of the car of £5,700.00. And it incorrectly said she had 
accepted it.
On 26 June 2019 esure sent a final response confirming its valuation of £5,700.00. On 15 
July 2019 esure sent a separate final response upholding Ms Bs complaint about not 
sending the message on 18 June 2019. It said it was sending her £100.00.
Unhappy with esures responses, Ms B brought her complaint to us in August 2019.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He 
thought that esure wrote off the car without Ms Bs authorisation and she ought to be 
compensated for the error which left her without this option or decision. He said she wasnt 
provided with a right of reply before the total loss settlement was agreed.
He recommended that esure should pay Ms B £400.00 for this mistake and the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her as well as the impact in that she had to find a replacement 
vehicle.
After esure provided a recording of a call on 3 July 2019, our investigator changed his view. 
He didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Ms B didnt want 
to retain the car with a total loss marker against it. 
So he no longer recommended that esure should pay £400.00. He said £100.00 was fair for 
the distress and convenience that was caused by not receiving the email.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. She says, in summary, that she is disappointed with the change in the 
investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The esure policy terms included the following:
For loss or damage to your car caused by fire, lightning, explosion, theft or attempted theft, 
we will:
 pay to have the damage repaired
 replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
 settle your claim by a monetary payment.
We will decide which of these methods we will use to settle your claim.
So the policy provided that it was esures choice whether to repair or write off the car. 
Like most such policies, Ms Bs gave esure the option of paying its market value less any 
excess.
A reasonable market value is the retail price which the consumer wouldve had to pay for a 
comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer, immediately before the time of the damage or 
loss. 
Advertisements for the sale of vehicles contain the sellers asking price. The actual price 
paid is often lower.
In deciding whether a figure is a reasonable market value we place more weight on 
valuations given in motor-trade guides.
From the engineers report, Ive noted the make, model, age and mileage of Ms Bs vehicle. I 
accept that it was in good condition before its theft in June 2019.
On 17 June 2019 esure sent a message as follows:
One of our engineers is reviewing your claim as your car could be uneconomical to repair.
Please look out for a text message from us to confirm the outcome of this review
From what Ive seen, including the photographs, I cant say esure treated Ms B unfairly by 
categorising her car as an insurance write-off.
Of course esure shouldve sent the text to Ms B on 18 June 2019. Its failure to do so meant 
that the first confirmation of her car being written off was a message the following day 
starting as follows:
As your vehicle has been declared a total loss, wed like to invite you to take part in our 2 
minute survey to ask for your view on how we went about settling this aspect of your claim
That caused Ms B some upset and some inconvenience in finding out the valuation. She had 
a difficult conversation with esures engineer. He made her feel unfairly disbelieved. From its 
file I see that esure has given him feedback.
The failure to send the text also delayed Ms B for a day or so in challenging the valuation. Ms B was on holiday for a week. I accept that she kept thinking about the theft and the 
conversation with esures engineer. I think she received the first final response while she 
was away. 
I accept esures statement that it instructed its salvage agent to keep the damaged car 
available in case Ms B wanted it.
From the recording of the call on 3 July 2019, I find that Ms B had decided she didnt want to 
keep the car with a total loss marker devaluing it.
From the figures in three motor-trade guides, I'm satisfied that £5,700.00 was a fair market 
value for Ms Bs vehicle before its theft in June 2019. 
Overall Ive found that esures engineer unfairly caused Ms B extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. But I'm satisfied that £100.00 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for this. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to do 
any more in response to Ms Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman