DRN-3609771
The complaint
Ms N complains that Intrum UK Limited is unfairly reporting three defaulted accounts on her 
credit file.
 
What happened
In January 2020 Intrum purchased two credit card accounts and a loan from another 
business Ill call T. All three accounts were in a default position at the point Intrum took 
ownership. Intrum sent Ms N Notices of Assignment for all three debts, setting out the 
change in ownership and new arrangements. 
In February 2020 Intrum received funds from Ms Ns bank that cleared the outstanding 
balances of her accounts. Ms N has told us the refunds came about after she successfully 
complained having been the victim of fraud. An interest refund was later forwarded to Ms N 
by Intrum. 
Ms Ns credit file was updated to show the defaults as being satisfied in February 2020. 
Earlier this year, a credit reference agency contacted Intrum and queried the defaults it was 
reporting on Ms Ns credit file. Ms N also discussed the defaults with Intrum and was 
referred back to T. Intrum also contacted T to check whether the defaults should be deleted 
from Ms Ns credit file. T responded and told Intrum that the defaults were correctly recorded 
so couldnt be deleted. 
Ms N complained and Intrum sent her a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. 
Intrum said that it would be willing to discuss the situation further with T and remove the 
defaults if advised to do so. An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ns complaint and 
said they thought Intrum had dealt with it fairly. Ms N asked to appeal, so her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N has told us she successfully complained to her bank following being the victim of fraud. 
As a result, Ms Ns bank forwarded funds to Intrum that paid back the outstanding balances 
in February 2020. I understand Ms N wants Intrum to delete the corresponding defaults due 
to the circumstances under which shes told us the borrowing came about. But, Intrum 
wasnt the owner of the debts when they defaulted, that was T. And T was the business that 
acted as the original lender. So, whilst I dont doubt what Ms Ns told us, Id expect any 
agreement to remove the defaults to come from T. 
Intrum forwarded us a final response T sent Ms N back in 2020. It doesnt offer to remove 
the defaults. And Intrum has been back to T since Ms N got in touch more recently to check 
whether the defaults should remain on her credit file. I understand why Ms N asked Intrum to 
delete the entries in question. But without agreement from T, Im satisfied its decision to 
leave the defaults in place is reasonable. 
Intrum has confirmed it will work with T and comply with any requests receives from that 
business to remove the defaults or amend Ms Ns credit file going forward. So if Ms N is able 
to obtain Ts agreement in the future, Intrum has confirmed itll take the necessary action. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms N but as Im satisfied Intrum dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman