DRN-3042419
The complaint
Mr B complains Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Bs complaint. Quid Market didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion because it said Mr B had already accepted a settlement to resolve the 
complaint. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I explained I wasnt intending to dismiss the complaint and thought that Quid 
Market needed to put things right for Mr B in relation to loan 3. A copy of the background to 
the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr B took four instalment loans between August 2017 and May 2019. Ive included some of
the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of Loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £300 23/08/2017 01/12/2017
2 £750 01/12/2017 07/09/2018
3 £400 08/11/2018 26/04/2019
4 £500 27/05/2019 27/01/2020
Quid Market considered Mr Bs complaint and issued a final response letter (FRL). It
accepted that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent. It agreed to refund the interest paid together
with simple interest at 8% per annum and to remove any negative information about the loan
from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B accepted the offer on the same day it was made in Quid Markets final response and
the compensatory payment was paid a few days later.
Neither Mr B or Quid Market initially told us that the offer had been accepted. Indeed, in
response to an information request Quid Market told us the offer for loan 4 still holds good.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think it was wrong for Quid
Market to have granted loans 1 and 2. He also agreed that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent.
But he also thought that it was wrong to approved loan 3. He felt that the repayment
difficulties Mr B experienced in repaying loan 2, suggested he was unlikely to be able to
repay loan 3 in a sustainable way. So, he thought Quid Market should refund the interest
paid together with simple interest at 8% per annum and to remove any adverse information
about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B appears to accept the adjudicators findings.
Quid Market didnt agree with the adjudicators proposal and it felt that Mr Bs complaint
shouldnt be considered at all. It said Mr B had accepted the offer for loan 4 as a resolution
to his overall complaint.
Mr B explained to our second adjudicator that he had felt pressurised into accepting the offer
and thought hed be able to apply for further lending in the future.
The second adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest Mr B had been
pressured into accepting the offer or that it was wrong for Quid Market not to offer further
loans. But she didnt think Quid Market had made it clear that acceptance of the offer for
loan 4 was in full and final settlement of the whole complaint about all his loans.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
Which loans do I think we can look at?
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can help with lots of financial service disputes, but its not always appropriate for us to do
so. Quid Market says it isnt appropriate for this service to consider Mr Bs complaint
because it feels it is resolved and so the case should be dismissed without consideration of
the merits. This is because it says Mr B accepted the offer it made for loan 4 in its final
response in resolution of all his complaint.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority DISP rules which govern the way we handle
complaints, DISP 3.3.4A (for complaints received after 9 July 2015) provides grounds on
which we may dismiss a complaint without looking at the merits first.
One of those grounds (and the one which I think is most relevant here) is in DISP 3.3.4A (5)
which says: dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I dont think that Mr Bs complaint about loans 1 to 3 is one which, if this complaint was to
proceed, would fall into the category of being a serious impairment to this services effective
operation.
Mr B has disputed that he accepted the offer for loan 4 in resolution of his complaint about
all his loans. He says he did accept only because I felt pressured into it and was told Id be
able to reapply in future which i am not
Quid Market says that there wasnt any pressure put on Mr B and that he wasnt given a
promise that it would continue to lend.
In its final response Quid Market made an offer for loan 4 and it referred Mr B to this service
if he was unhappy with the outcome. It also said that if Mr B wanted to accept the offer he
would need to contact Quid Markets office. I can see that Mr B emailed Quid Markets office
on the same day the FRL was sent and the payment was made to him within a few days.
However, while Quid Market has provided the referral rights to this service (which it was
required to do) I dont think in this instance this case should be dismissed.
In my view there is no conditionality in the FRL, the FRL isnt clear in telling Mr B the
consequences of accepting the offer that being he would be accepting the offer and outcome
for the whole complaint and as a result of accepting the offer he may not be able to bring the
complaint to this service.Mr B is unhappy with the response about loans 1 to 3, Mr B did refer his complaint to this
service within the time limits for referral so there is no jurisdiction concerns with this case.
So, I disagree there is no dispute left for this service to resolve about loans 1 to 3.
But, what I would say is the offer was clear for loan 4 and Mr B did give a clear and
unambiguous acceptance about the offer for loan 4 and Im satisfied that there is no longer
an outstanding dispute about this loan. And it appears that Mr B isnt expecting us to make a
finding about this loan. Im just making it clear that for this loan, I dont think it would be
appropriate for this service to reconsider a complaint which has already been settled.
So, considering everything, Im satisfied this service can consider a complaint about loans 1
to 3. Ive gone on to consider therefore the findings made by our adjudicators about these
loans and what Quid Market has said about this lending.
What Ive provisionally decided about loans 1 to 3  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr B doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Quid Market wasnt
wrong to lend loans 1 and 2. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think
that I need to make a finding about it. And for the completeness, I dont disagree with the
adjudicators outcome for these loans. And Ive already explained above why I wont be
looking at loan 4 any further.
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Quid Market did anything wrong when it
granted loan 3. This being the instalment loan lent on 8 November 2018. But I have kept the
earlier lending in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between Quid
Market and Mr B.
Quid Market had to assess loan 3 to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Quid Markets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the instalment
loan  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able
to repay his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Mr B appeared to have significant difficulty repaying loan
2. Loan 2s six instalments were due to be repaid by 18 May 2018. But this didnt happen.
Mr B paid the first instalment but then missed the next two. I understand a repayment plan
was then set up, but this needed to be revised in April 2018 following further repayment
difficulties. It appears these repayments werent made on time but did get paid in the same
month.
The loan was subsequently repaid on 7 September 2018, almost four months late. I agree
with our adjudicator that these circumstances indicate that there was a significant risk Mr B
wouldve been unable to sustainably meet his repayments for loan 3.
I can also see that when loan 3 was lent the credit check obtained by Quid Market showed
that Mr B had four other loans outstanding, three more than had been outstanding when loan 
2 was lent. The credit check also revealed that Mr B had defaulted on a home collected loan 
shortly before loan 2 was repaid. I think these circumstances suggest Mr B may have been 
having problems managing his money.
Looking at everything together, I think Quid Market knew, or ought to have reasonably
known, that Mr B was unlikely to be able to repay loan 3 in an affordable and sustainable
way. So, I think Quid Market was wrong to have provided it.
As this is the case, Im intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 3 and Ive set out
below what I provisionally think Quid Market should do to put things right.
Both parties were given the opportunity to submit any further comments or evidence that it 
wanted our service to consider. Both Mr B and Quid Market responded to the provisional 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B confirmed hed received the provisional decision, agreed with the outcome and 
therefore didnt have anything further for this service to consider. Quid Market didnt agree with the conclusions in the provisional decision. It still felt the case 
should be dismissed. It said the justification for using DISP 3.3.4A(5) was not relevant.
It then went on to provide a summary of what happened, including the complaint being 
acknowledged, investigated, a final response letter dispatched and the offer being accepted 
by Mr B within two hours of receiving it. 
Quid Market also didnt provide any further comment on what it thought about the outcome in 
relation to loan 3. 
As far as I can see, there is no jurisdictional reason why this service cant consider this 
complaint, so its simply a question of whether or not this service ought to use our discretion 
not to consider it because we consider it appropriate to do so. DISP 3.3.4A provides grounds 
where this service may do that. To be clear, this is a matter of discretion for me to decide  
this service isnt required to dismiss.
I accept that there might be circumstances where a consumer and business have reached a 
clear and unequivocal agreement on the redress of complaint such that its inappropriate for 
us to then unwind because one party changes their mind. That certainly could impair our 
function as per DISP 3.4.4A R (5), but I dont think thats the case here, for the reasons Ive 
explained in the provisional decision and Quid Market hasnt said or provided any new 
information following the provisional decision to change my mind on that.
So, having considered the circumstances of the case, everything thats been said and the 
relevant parts of DISP relating to my dismissal powers, Im satisfied that its appropriate for 
me to use my discretion in this case, so Im not going to dismiss the complaint without 
considering its merits.
While I accept Quid Market did investigate the complaint and the offer was accepted fairly 
quickly, in this case, this doesnt have as much weight as how the final response laid out the 
offer or the use of my discretionary powers. 
As Ive said above, Quid Market hasnt commented any further about the uphold for loan 3. 
Given, this I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision. 
So, Im still of the view that this case shouldnt be dismissed, and that Quid Market needs to 
put things right for Mr B in relation to loan 3. Ive outlined below what Quid Market needs to 
do in order to put things right for Mr B.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dontthink I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quid Market should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Bs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid Market
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman