DRN-2700972
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) was 
responsible for a three-month delay in the transfer-in of a Child Trust Fund Junior ISA (from 
a previous provider) and that this had resulted in a loss of around £2,000 in its value.
What happened
HL accepted it was responsible for some, though not all of the delay and offered Mrs W £250 
in lieu of the trouble and upset this had caused.
However, it didnt accept she had lost £2,000 as a result of the delay. It said it had looked at 
the investments she had placed in her sons account following the transfer and considered 
the potential of backdating of these trades to 10 January, the date at which the transfer could 
have ideally completed. On review, it was clear that this would not be beneficial as the value 
transferred in March, although lower in cash terms, allowed Mrs W to buy a greater number 
of shares and units in her chosen investments than if the transfer had been done in January. 
In fact, it calculated that the ISA had benefitted by more than £3,500 as a result of the 
delayed encashment and reinvestment in the new shares.
An investigator at this service summarised the timeline of events and agreed that both HL 
and the previous provider (BMO) had made mistakes, specifying the respective responsibility 
of each business for the total delay, in her view.
But she agreed with HLs calculations which indicated that if Mrs W had been able to 
reinvest her cash early in January, and in the same funds she subsequently chose, her sons 
ISA would have had a lower cash value given the respective falls in the value of her previous 
funds and the new ones. 
She explained to Mrs W that:
The purpose of redress is to place the child trust fund in the same position it would have 
been in had the transfer been completed on 10 January 2020.
On 10 January 2020, the child trust fund held 1892.16 units with a value of 734.4 per unit. 
Therefore, on that date the BMO investment would have had a value of around £13,896.02.
HL have stated that as the unit value of your chosen funds had fallen by 12 March 2020, no 
loss had been suffered as you would have had to pay more for the same number or
units/investments had the transfer been processed on 10 January. This is because 
essentially you would have sold the BMO investments at a high and purchased the new HL 
investments at a high too. 
By March the value of investments generally had begun to fall, due to Covid19, so
whilst the BMO investments produced less than it would have in January, you were able to
purchase units in the new investments at a lower price. HL cannot be held responsible for 
the fall in value.
For comparison purposes, HL have provided the figures. By way of example, the unit price 
for Baillie Gifford American was 914.8 on 10 January 2020 but it had fallen to 813.7 by 12 
March 2020.
She also said that Mrs W stated that she was not provided with an option to cancel the
transfer. But she said that HL were not under any duty to advise Mrs W of this and she could 
have refused to complete another transfer form (which may well have halted the transfer) or 
given HL instructions to stop the transfer if she felt it was taking far too long and she no 
longer wished to proceed.
As such, she couldnt accept that Hargreaves errors had led to a loss. Given this, she felt its 
offer of £250 for poor service was fair and reasonable.
Mrs W did not agree, and said:
There is no reason to assume she would have invested in the same shares in 
January that she chose in March
The investigator failed to consider that she might have looked at the market in 
January and decided to hold the money in cash or have invested in completely 
different shares, depending on the market
Compensation could be into her sons HL account directly. It does not have to be a 
cash payment
Contrary to the investigators view, she repeatedly rang HL from February to April 
2020 as the enclosed extracts from her phone bills demonstrate
The latest evidence also shows that HL provided wrong information to BMO on at 
least three occasions and misled her; it also reveals that it failed to fully inform her 
about its failure to act on her original instruction
There were further exchanges about relative responsibility of HL and BMO for the overall 
delay. These, in my view, indicated that HL may have been to blame for more of the delay 
than it had admitted to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should acknowledge that there is some uncertainty about the respective 
responsibility of HL and BMO for the overall delay, and I am not certain that HLs 
interpretation of this issue is right. If I was persuaded that the overall delay had caused a 
loss, I would need to look into this further including seeking more information from both 
businesses. But as I am not convinced that the delay did cause a loss  for reasons I shall 
outline - I do not think this is necessary.
As HL has admitted, and the investigator concluded, there is no doubt that HL made number 
of mistakes and that these significantly contributed to the delay in Mrs Ws sons funds being 
encashed and, by definition, being reinvested. Such delays can often result in a loss. But the 
evidence provided by HL indicated that in this case Mrs Ws sons ISA actually ended being 
worth more as a result of the delays; if Mrs W had been able to invest in the same funds that 
she eventually chose two months earlier.
From what I have read, Mrs W has not disputed HLs figures and I have no reason to doubt 
their accuracy.Instead, Mrs W argues she might not have invested in these funds or at least not done so 
immediately. She might have held the money in cash given the Covid-driven market 
uncertainty or she might have chosen different funds. I do not doubt that she might have 
done either of these things.
But in order to fairly conclude that she is entitled to compensation, Id need to see 
persuasive evidence that she definitely would have held the money in cash and/or invested 
differently. In both cases it would be difficult to safely calculate what size of loss might have 
eventually ensued, particularly as Mrs W did reinvest the money in March (when presumably 
she felt it was right to do so despite the ongoing pandemic). In other words, even if she had 
kept it in cash initially, her subsequent actions indicate she would have reinvested the 
money in a falling market. So one couldnt safely conclude that the ISA would be worth 
£2,000 more but for the delays.
In essence, it is my job decide if there is sufficient evidence to fairly conclude that there is 
sufficient, persuasive evidence to conclude that a business failure clearly resulted in a 
customer suffering a financial loss. Given Mrs W merely says she might have done 
something different (held the money in cash or reinvested differently), I cannot agree that HL 
should pay her compensation based on her possible, hypothetical actions.
Finally, I also acknowledge that HLs customer service appears to have been very 
unsatisfactory, failing to respond to calls and emails promptly or helpfully. But I dont believe 
its offer of £250 in lieu of these failings is unreasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman