DRN-3349292
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank Plc surrounding a block 
that was applied by Barclays to his account.
What happened
Mr D attempted to use an ATM machine but found that he was unable to access his account. 
Mr D spoke with Barclays staff about this at which time he was told that a block had been 
placed on his account by Barclays because of potential fraud concerns. 
Mr D telephoned Barclays fraud department to try to unblock his account, but after being on 
hold for over 40 minutes the call was cut off shortly after being connected. Mr D called 
Barclays back and had to wait a further 40 minutes, at which time he verified himself to 
Barclays and the block was removed. Mr D wasnt happy about what had happened, so he 
raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ds complaint. While they acknowledged that Mr D had been 
inconvenienced by what had taken place, they felt that theyd managed the situation 
reasonably and so they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially as the first complaint response 
letter hed received had been a blank letter template without any content. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also acknowledged that Mr D had 
been inconvenienced by what had happened, but they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in how theyd handled the situation, and so they also 
didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that Barclays first placed the block on Mr Ds account because of 
potential fraud concerns several weeks before Mr D subsequently discovered it. In his 
correspondence with this service, Mr D has acknowledged that Barclays may have placed 
the block on his account in good faith and with good intentions, but he feels that Barclays 
should have been more proactive in contacting Mr D about this block so that he could have 
arranged for its removal rather than discovering it when he needed to use the account  as 
was the case.
I can appreciate Mr Ds position here, but its notable that Barclays did attempt to contact Mr 
D using the contact telephone numbers that they had on file when the block was first 
applied, but that they were unsuccessful. This may be because Barclays dont hold a mobile 
telephone number for Mr D, but Barclays can only attempt to contact Mr D on the contact 
telephone numbers maintained on their records by Mr D, and as such I dont feel that 
Barclays can be held accountable for their lack of success in initially contacting Mr D here.
Barclays have also explained that they dont make ongoing attempts to contact a customer 
on whose account theyve placed a block, but rather that they if the initial attempt at contact 
is unsuccessful  as it was in this instance  that they expect affected customers to contact 
them when they discover the block on their account.
Similarly, Barclays have confirmed that dont write to customers to advise them that a block 
has been placed on their account. This is because Barclays feel that if the block is 
legitimate, and if unauthorised parties are attempting to commit fraud on an account, that 
this might potentially tip-off such unauthorised parties and compromise Barclays anti-fraud 
measures.
Im aware that Mr D doesnt agree with Barclays policies here, but these policies seem 
reasonable to me and Im satisfied that theyre policies that Barclays are entitled to have. 
And as such I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr D by not writing to him 
about the block on his account, or by not continuing to attempt to contact him by telephone 
once the initial calls were unsuccessful.
When Mr D did learn of the block on his account he telephoned Barclays about this. But not 
only was the hold time significant at over 40 minutes, but when Mr Ds call was connected it 
was cut off shortly afterwards. 
Mr D has stated that he feels Barclays should have called him back at that time, rather than 
him having to call and hold for a second time. Again, I can appreciate Mr Ds position here, 
but I feel that the fact that Barclays telephone lines were so busy, and that Mr D was having 
to hold for such a long period, is indicative that Barclays didnt have the available resource to 
call him back at that time, given that their call handlers would in all likelihood have been 
automatically connected to the next waiting inbound call.
All of which isnt to say that Mr D hasnt been inconvenienced here  its obvious and 
apparent that he was. But unfortunately, because of the necessity of anti-fraud measures 
such as the one that led to his account being blocked, it can be the case that a degree of 
unavoidable inconvenience can unfortunately be necessary for bank account holders in 
situations such as this. And I think thats whats happened in this instance.
So while I appreciate why Mr D would be upset by the events about which hes complained 
here, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unreasonably in how theyve managed this 
situation, or that Mr D has been treated unfairly as a result, such that any form of 
compensation to Mr D is warranted in this instance. 
Mr D has also expressed his dissatisfaction with how Barclays have handled his complaint, 
including that Barclays sent an initial complaint response letter that was a blank template 
which contained no contact. 
However, as the Financial Ombudsman Service, the remit of this service is to consider 
complaints that relate to regulated financial activities. And, given that how a business 
handles a complaint  even a complaint about a regulated financial activity such as this one 
 isnt itself a regulated financial activity, this means that aspects of a complaint that relate to 
how a business has handled a complaint arent aspects of a complaint that its within the 
remit of this service to consider.Finally, Im aware that Mr D feels that Barclays acknowledged n their response to his 
complaint that they should have sent a letter to him advising that his account had been 
blocked. But having read Barclays complaint response letter Im satisfied that the section of 
that letter to which Mr D refers is in fact referring to the initial complaint response letter that 
was sent as a blank template to Mr D, and isnt referring to a notification of account block 
letter as Mr D contends. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows from all the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at 
this time. I hope that Mr D will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman