DRN-4350755
Complaint
Miss K has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss K with a loan for £1,000.00 in February 2023. This loan had 
an APR of 79.9% and a term of 12 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£1,344.48, including interest, fees and charges of £344.48, was due to be repaid in 12 
monthly instalments of £112.04. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ks complaint and she thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Miss K with her loan. So she thought that Miss Ks complaint should 
be upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ks complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to find out enough about Miss K such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Miss K could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check. 
The credit check will have shown that Miss K was already significantly indebted and had had 
previously had difficulties with credit. Miss K was already using a significant proportion of the 
credit available to her on her revolving credit commitments and made only the minimum 
payment to accounts nine times in the previous year. 
So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have obtained more further information from Miss K 
in order to have been able to make an informed decision on whether to lend to her. And I 
think that it 118 118 Money had done this it would have seen that Miss K was struggling to 
meet her existing commitments as well as having direct debits returned. 
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss K has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss Ks indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss Ks version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ks existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Ks 
circumstances would more like than not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have 
provided this loan to her. 
As 118 118 Money provided Miss K with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss K ended up paying (and is being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on a loan 
she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss K lost out because of what 
118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss K
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Miss K by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Ks loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss K made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£1,000.00 originally lent. If Miss K has already paid 118 118 Money more than 
£1,000.00 then it should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Miss K;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss K to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Miss Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest.            
118 118 Money must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman