DRN-2316245
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited delayed closing two non-
fault claims made on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs R had two open claims when her policy came up for renewal. The effect was that her No 
Claims Discount (NCD) reduced to two years from 15 and her premium increased 
substantially. Mrs R couldnt afford to renew with AA and had to find cover elsewhere. The 
claims were then closed as non-fault and Mrs Rs NCD was allowed. Mrs R thought that AA 
should have closed the claims sooner and this wouldnt then have affected her premiums. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
if claims were open, then the NCD would be affected. She thought AA had shown that it had 
recovered its outlay for the second claim after renewal and so this claim would have then 
been open. 
But she thought AA hadnt shown enough evidence of when it had recovered its outlay for 
the first claim and so should have closed the claim. AA could only show that it had closed 
the claim after renewal. She thought it hadnt shown that it had taken action when it should. 
And she thought it should pay Mrs R £150 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience 
this caused. 
AA replied that it wanted an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mrs R was injured in one of the accidents. I can understand her 
frustration that, even though the accidents werent her fault, they affected her NCD and her 
premium. Shes explained that she found cheaper cover elsewhere, but with a higher policy 
excess. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Under the terms and conditions of Mrs Rs policy Section 9: No Claims Discount, it says:
If a claim has been made or arisen under this insurance in any one period of insurance
Your No Claim Discount will be reduced at the next renewal in accordance with the
Insurers step back scale applicable at the time of renewal (usually to the equivalent of 0,
1 or 2 years) subject to any No Claim Discount Protection condition that may apply to this
insurance.
Claims that do not affect your No Claim Discount
for incidents for which the Insurer obtains a full recovery of all payments made it will
not count as a claim for the purposes of No Claim Discount
So I think this means that until AA had reclaimed all its costs from a third-party, a claim 
would still be shown as fault, even if a third party has accepted liability. And so this would 
then affect the NCD until the claim was closed. Mrs Rs two incidents were non-fault. So Ive 
looked to see when AA recovered its costs and so should have closed the claims and 
allowed Mrs Rs NCD. 
With the second claim, I can see that when Mrs Rs policy came up for renewal, it had still to 
recover its outlay. So I think this open claim was then correctly recorded as fault and this 
would then affect Mrs Rs unprotected NCD and her premiums. The outlay was recovered 
about four months after the accident. The claim was then changed to non fault and Mrs Rs 
NCD was allowed. I cant see that there were any significant delays in this claim.  
But I cant see from AAs file when it recovered its outlay and so should have closed the first 
claim. AA has provided a letter it sent to Mrs R and a screenshot showing that the claim was 
closed after her renewal. But its file suggests that the claim was closed before renewal. I say 
this because of two reasons:
1. Mrs R had been sent her renewal documents, a month before the second accident, and 
two months after the first, with an additional years NCD. This suggests that her NCD for 
the first claim had been allowed and so the claim would have been closed before 
renewal. But I can also see that no claims are recorded for Mrs R on this renewal. So, it 
may be that AAs system was not updated at that time. 
2. AAs file notes for the first claim end with a note referring to a closure letter sent before 
the date of the renewal. AA hasnt been able to explain this, or to provide a copy of this 
letter. Nor, despite repeated requests, has it been able to provide evidence of when it 
recovered its outlay for the claim. It simply refers to the closure letter it sent two months 
later, after the renewal, and a screenshot dated the same stating that the claim was 
closed. This is different to the second claim where the file note for the closure letter was 
supported by a letter for the same date.
So Im not satisfied that, on balance, AA didnt cause any delays in closing this open claim. 
And I think this then unfairly affected Mrs Rs NCD and her premium at renewal. The impact 
on Mrs R was that she had the trouble of finding cover elsewhere and she now has to 
arrange for her new insurer to rerate her policy with the correct NCD.
 Putting things right
The investigator recommended that AA should pay Mrs R £150 compensation for this 
distress and inconvenience. I think thats fair and reasonable, as its what Id require in 
similar circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman