DRN-3801411
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays caused by AWP P&C SA when handling a claim under his 
missed event insurance policy. 
Where I refer to AWP, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr H had tickets to an event which he was unable to attend. So, in May 2022, he made a 
claim to AWP under his missed event insurance policy. Hes told us that he tried to phone 
AWP but was on hold for several hours. He tried to use its online system, but this wasnt 
working. So he submitted his claim by email.
When Mr H didnt receive a response to his claim, he raised a complaint. AWP said Mr H 
had emailed the incorrect email address, so it wasnt picked up by the claims team. They 
passed it to the team in August 2022, and the claim was paid ten days later.
Mr H felt that he should be compensated for the delays, so AWP offered £25 by way of an 
apology  which AWP say Mr H accepted. But hes come to our service as he says AWP 
should pay more.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied AWP had done enough to 
put things right. But Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. And in 
October 2022, I issued the following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
AWP has provided us with a copy of the policy terms and conditions. I can see that at the top 
of page one, under the heading important contacts, it lists three email contacts for policy 
cancellations; customer service; and claims. The first two contacts have the same email 
address, but the claims contact has a different email.
Mr H sent his claim to the email contact for policy cancellations and customer service. So 
AWP say the claims team werent aware of the claim and couldnt action it. 
Whilst I appreciate that may be the case, all email addresses should be monitored. And if an 
email is received that doesnt relate to that department, I would expect it to be forwarded on 
to the correct team. At the very least, a reply couldve been sent to Mr H explaining that hed 
contacted the wrong team, providing him with the correct contact  rather than his email just 
being ignored. 
Mr H says he didnt have a copy of the policy terms and conditions, as these werent 
provided at the point of sale. So he didnt have the details of the claims contact. As AWP 
didnt sell him the policy, I cant hold it responsible for this. But I have done my own internet 
searches for a claims contact under this insurance policy, and the email address for 
customer services is the one that comes up. Because of this, I can understand why this is 
the email address Mr H sent his claim to.
So I dont accept that the blame lies entirely with Mr H here. Its AWPs responsibility to 
monitor their email addresses and ensure customers are responded to, regardless of 
whether the email is for that specific team or not.
Because of its failure to do so, Mr H waited three months for his claim to be settled. And he 
was put to unnecessarily distress and inconvenience by having to chase AWP, raise a 
complaint and involve our service in order to get his claim actioned. This is below the 
standards of service Id expect from an insurer.
Taking everything into incorrect, and in particular the impact this wouldve had on Mr H given 
his particular circumstances, Im inclined to increase the compensation offered to £75  
which means an additional £50 to what AWP have already paid. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr H nor AWP responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to pay £50 
compensation, bringing the total amount paid to £75. This should be paid within 28 days of 
Mr Hs acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman