DRN-2915819
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) registered a fraud prevention marker against 
him without due cause. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in June 2021 to explain why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This 
is an extract from my provisional decision: 
In January to February 2017 Mr M received six payments into his account. Metro received a 
notification from the sending bank that these payments were fraudulent. The sending bank 
alleged that the money was sent as part of an insurance fraud, whereby the sender was 
duped into thinking they had been paying for a car insurance policy. Following a review, 
Metro closed Mr Ms account and referred Mr M to Cifas to register him on the National 
Fraud Database. 
Mr M told us that he contacted Metro to find out why his account had been closed, and he 
was informed that a complaint had been made about payments into his account relating to a 
car hed sold. Mr M says he asked Metro to provide some more information about the 
complaint but he was advised to get in touch with the sender himself. Mr M explained that it 
would be onerous to do this as he is involved in the sale of multiple vehicles each month, 
and that he wouldnt necessarily have up to date contact details for all the buyers. 
Metro asked Mr M if he could review his files and provide supporting documentation along 
with and the contact details of the sender. As some time had passed, he said he no longer 
had these details but provided an invoice that matched the name on the sending account 
and a logbook for the car he said he sold to the buyer. Metro said the evidence Mr M 
provided didnt change their mind and maintained that they had a duty to refer this matter to 
Cifas.
Mr M explained that this was having a significant impact on him as he was not able to open 
another bank account or apply for a phone contract or credit card. He had also wanted to 
apply for a loan and this was preventing him from doing so. He said he had also been 
prevented from a property purchase. Mr M did open another account but that too was 
closed, likely due to the Cifas marker. 
So Mr M came to our service. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
She felt Metro should have given Mr M the opportunity to respond to the allegations at the 
time. The investigator also felt that the invoice and logbook Mr M provided showed that the 
money was sent as part of a legitimate car sale, rather than as part of any fraud or financial 
crime. So the investigator recommended the removal of the Cifas marker, and that £250 be 
paid to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. Metro disagreed. In 
response to the view and a further request for information that I made, they said: 
the amounts received into the account didnt match the amount the car was allegedly 
sold for on the invoice;
the year of the invoice was not the year the payments were made;
it seemed strange that there were no details of the sender on the invoice other than 
their name  which Mr M could have seen on his bank statement;
the log book was unclear as it didnt show Mr M as the registered owner, and he had 
only provided the front cover; 
it was strange to for money to be paid into a personal account for business sales and 
this breached the account terms; 
they had researched the car that Mr M had allegedly sold and found at the time of 
sale it had no MOT and had been declared off the road for tax purposes. They didnt 
think a dealer would be able to sell the car in this condition;
Mr Ms bank statements showed that there were numerous payments from other 
people with references that indicated the payments were for insurance  and the 
reason Metro may not have received fraud claims about these payments is that 
these individuals may not have had cause to claim on their vehicle insurance. The 
individual who made the fraud claim in this case had only discovered he was 
uninsured when he had an accident and needed to make a claim; 
all funds had been spent or removed from Mr Ms account so the sending individual 
could not be refunded at the time; 
it would be strange for a car dealer to sell a car in instalments without any finance 
agreement in place as this would put them at risk; and
they agreed with my point that it would be strange for someone to pay insurance in 6 
payments over one month, but felt this could speak to the naivety of the sender. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am minded to reach a 
different conclusion to the investigator. I know this may be disappointing to Mr M, but Ill 
explain why I am currently thinking of not upholding this complaint. 
The marker that Metro asked to be applied is for misuse of facility. The misuse relates to 
using the account to receive fraudulent funds. For Metro to record this they dont need to be 
able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of an offence of fraud. But to 
register a Cifas marker, they are expected to be able to demonstrate that there are 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or 
attempted. What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to demonstrate that 
the funds that entered Mr Ms account were fraudulent funds  and not part of a legitimate 
car sale. And secondly, Metro will need to have strong evidence that Mr M was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving those funds and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
Mr M hasnt denied knowledge of the funds that came into his account. But he explained that 
the money was sent to him as part of a legitimate sale rather than any kind of fraud. But the 
sender has alleged that he thought he was paying for an insurance contract, and later 
discovered he was uninsured when he went to make a claim. As such he has alleged that Mr 
M was deliberately dishonest in receiving and spending these funds. The relevant finding for 
me to make is whether I believe Metro had sufficient evidence to conclude that the money 
sent to Mr M was as the result of a fraud, and that he was deliberately dishonest in relation 
to this, such that it would be able to escalate its concerns to Cifas.
 
Based on my review, I am currently minded to say that Metro were entitled to do so. This is 
because: 
My review of Mr Ms statements has shown that there were numerous payments into 
his account with references to insurance, but he told this service that he didnt sell 
insurance at that time. So this indicates he has not been entirely honest with Metro or 
this service. When asked about the discrepancy between the amounts paid in and the alleged 
invoice for the sale of the car, Mr M explained that the extra money was likely for an 
administration cost that he charged at the time. I do not find this particularly 
persuasive as I would expect all related costs to be included on an invoice. 
Mr M had said he sold a lot of cars as a car salesman for his family business. If this 
was true, I would have expected payments to go into a business account. I would 
also expect any instalment based sales to have a finance agreement in place in order 
to protect Mr M and the business. 
Whilst I accept that the inaccuracies on the invoice could be down to human error, I 
think it is reasonable for Metro to conclude that the invoice does not constitute 
compelling evidence of a genuine sale. On its own, it would not be conclusive. But 
when considered with the other evidence, I can see that Metro would have grounds 
to suspect the invoice that was produced appeared suspicious. 
Similarly, I think the production of the front page of a log book doesnt provide Metro 
with evidence to support that the payments were received as part of a genuine sale. I 
say this because there is no mention of Mr M on the logbook, and Metro have 
provided evidence that the vehicle didnt have a valid MOT, and was declared off the 
road. I am aware people may buy vehicles for parts, but I still dont currently feel that 
the logbook provided Metro with conclusive evidence of a sale. 
Taking everything into account, I am currently minded to conclude that Metro had enough 
evidence to meet the burden of proof required by Cifas to add the marker against Mr M. So I 
am presently thinking it was fair that Metro reported Mr M to Cifas and closed his account. 
Unless something changes my mind, I wont be asking Metro to remove the marker. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, I am not currently minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro didnt have any further points to add following my provisional decision. Mr M did ask 
what evidence he could provide, but decided not to provide any further evidence.
 
Given that I have not received any further evidence to consider, I see no reason to deviate 
from my provisional decision. So, for the reasons I outlined in that provisional decision, I am 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman