DRN-3317511
The complaint
Ms J has complained about Brightside Insurance Services Limited trading as Brightside. 
She isnt happy about the way it cancelled her van insurance policy.
What happened
Ms J took out a van insurance policy through Brightside. Although she was fully up to date 
with her premium payments and there were no issues with her policy Brightside looked to 
cancel her policy giving her seven-day notice. This was because her direct debit details were 
changing and required updating.
Ms J wasnt happy about this and so she complained to Brightside. It said that the credit 
provider was to blame but acknowledged that she was fully up to date with her payments. 
The problem was that Ms Js direct debit details were being amended which meant it was 
possible that her direct debit wouldnt be paid. If it wasnt possible to take payment then the 
policy terms and conditions allowed the policy to be cancelled. And it would appear that the 
problem came down to a miscommunication between Brightside and the credit provider. As 
Brightside maintained its position Ms J complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. She thought that 
Brightside didnt act in a fair and reasonable way in cancelling the policy. This was because 
it was clear there were no issues with payment of the premium and everything was up to 
date, it was just that a change in direct debit payment was required. And as she thought 
Brightside didnt act fairly as it just immediately looked to cancel the policy, as opposed to 
giving a reasonable period of time to change the direct debit details, she thought it should try 
and put things right by - removing any cancellation markers; refunding any cancellation and 
arrangement fees; only charging time on risk adding 8% simple interest; and paying £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
As Brightside didnt agree, maintaining that it hadnt done anything wrong and had just acted 
in line with its terms and conditions, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Brightside, but Ill explain why. And I also think its important to explain Ive 
read and taken into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my 
decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I 
didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding 
what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an 
answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux 
of the complaint.
I know that Brightside accept that Ms J was up to date with her premiums and all this was 
simply caused by a change in direct debit details. And the breakdown in communication 
between the credit company and Brightside clearly contributed to the problems Ms J faced. I 
say this as Brightside blame the credit hire company and they blame Brightside, but it is 
clear that Ms J was up to date with her premiums. As such I agree that this has produced an 
unduly harsh outcome. I say this as it was clear that Ms J wasnt acting unreasonably and 
was doing everything expected of her to keep her policy live. Indeed, she contacted 
Brightside on the day of cancellation, and it put her through to the finance provider at that 
time. It was clear that she was doing all she could at that point in time to keep the policy live 
and it would have made sense for Brightside to keep her policy and extend the cancellation 
period. 
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Brightside to put Ms J back into the position she should have been if it have 
acted fairly and allowed more time and not cancelled the policy. So it should refund the 
cancellation fee and any other charges; remove any cancellation markers; only charge time 
on risk and pay 8% simple interest; and pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside 
Insurance Services Limited trading as Brightside to:
refund any cancellation fee or admin charges Ms J incurred due to the cancellation of 
the policy;
remove any record of the cancellation from any internal or external databases and 
provide a letter of explanation to Ms J;
only charge time on risk and pay 8% simple interest to any refund from the date of 
cancellation until the date of settlement; and 
pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman