DRN-4222324
The complaint
Mr C complains that Wakam undervalued his car when handling a claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Mr C is also unhappy that Wakam didnt give him the opportunity to retrieve his personal
belongings from the car before moving it to a different location.
Reference to Wakam includes its agents.
What happened
Mr C took out a Private Hire Motor Insurance Policy with Wakam. He made a claim to
Wakam following the theft of his car.
Wakam initially valued the cars pre-incident market value as £10,820 and offered this
amount to Mr C less the £500 policy excess. At the time, Mr Cs car was still missing and so
the valuation was based on an adjusted mileage from the MOT history because there was
no evidence of the actual mileage.
Mr C didnt think the valuation completed by the independent engineer on his car was correct
and he also disagreed with the information the engineer used in order to reach the valuation.
He said all the car details, including the mileage, were incorrect. Mr C believed a more
accurate valuation would be in the region of £16,000 and he provided examples of adverts
which he says as for cars similar to his priced between £13,995-£18,949.
In response, Wakam said the adverts provided by Mr C didnt include the mileage and it
believed this would impact the price. It also said it had found an example of a car which was
being sold for the amount it offered Mr C. Wakam felt that the valuation for the vehicle was a
fair offer in line with information it had about the car and the valuation guides available to it.
Wakam therefore refused to increase the car valuation.
Mr C was thinking about accepting Wakams offer and so he sent Wakam the keys to his car
and a copy of the V5 registration document. In the meantime, Mr Cs car was recovered by
police, and he was informed he could collect it from the compound which was approximately
six miles away from his home. As Mr C was no longer in possession of the car keys or the
V5 registration document, he contacted Wakam and said that he would like to accompany
Wakam to the compound to collect his personal belongings from the car, including a gold
chain which hed hidden in the car.
Mr C says that even though Wakam had agreed to him accompanying its engineer to the
compound to collect his belongings from the car, Wakam collected the car without informing
Mr C and moved it to a different location which was approximately 300 miles away from
Mr Cs home. Mr C complained that he was unable to travel to the new location and Wakam
didnt give him the opportunity to collect his personal belongings before moving the car.
On inspection of Mr Cs car, Wakam deemed it a total loss category S. It also carried out
another valuation based on an accurate reading of the mileage from the odometer. As a
result, Wakam increased the valuation of Mr Cs car by £110 to £10,930, less the £500
policy excess.
Mr C remained dissatisfied with the valuation of his car and he didnt think Wakam had dealt
with him fairly so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Wakam didnt do anything wrong when it
moved Mr Cs car to a different location. He also explained that had Wakam not moved the
vehicle in a timely manner, it would have been disposed of and so it took the correct action
in moving it. He also pointed out that in any event Mr Cs policy didnt provide cover for
personal items that were left in the vehicle.
He also considered whether Wakam acted fairly when valuing Mr Cs car and he didnt think
it had. He therefore asked Wakam to increase the valuation for Mr Cs car by £230 to bring it
in line with the average across the three valuation guides he had checked. Wakam and Mr C
didnt agree with our investigator. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for
Mr C, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint, Mr C has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those
very carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. Im
well aware of how stressful the whole process has been for Mr C especially because he told
us he had a lot to deal with during this time, as well as being chased by the car finance
company.
Car valuation
Mr C said when he took out the policy, he told was told by Wakam that his car was worth
£18,000 and in the event of loss or damage he would likely get this amount. He had stated
on the insurance proposal that the value of his car was £16,000 and so this was very least
he expected Wakam to pay him.
As our investigator has explained this services role isnt to work out exactly what the value
of an individual vehicle is. We look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy
correctly and taken reasonable steps to ensure a fair valuation was reached. Under the 
terms of Mr Cs policy, Wakam must pay him a sum equal to the market value of the car,
less his policy excess.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing a vehicle at the time of loss or damage, taking into account its
make, model, age, mileage and condition.
Mr C provided examples of similar cars he found advertised online. It is correct that these
vehicles were advertised for more than Wakams valuation of Mr Cs car. I have looked at
the information he provided, none of these adverts show the vehicles mileage and therefore
its not a reasonable comparison.The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the industry
to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on national
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the
time of loss. We usually find the valuation guides more reliable than individual adverts which
can vary vastly in price and advertised prices can allow room for negotiations. They are
essentially asking prices and not selling prices.
I therefore feel that the starting point when trying to establish the market value of a car is to
look at the valuation guides, although I do consider any other evidence submitted to decide
whether it was reasonable for the insurer to rely on the values produced by the guides
Our Investigator explained that our service takes the approach that when theres an even
spread of valuations, we should look for the average. Having done that, he asked Wakam to
increase the car valuation by £230. Our investigators approach here wasnt correct. What
we need to consider is whether the valuation reached by the insurer is reasonable and in line
with the guides, unless there is sufficient evidence to suggest it would not be reasonable to
rely on the valuations produced by the guides. In any event, our investigator also inputted an
incorrect date of loss on one of the valuation guides and therefore the result wasnt reliable
as it didnt reflect the valuation at the time of Mr Cs loss which is what we should be
considering.
Ive independently checked three valuation guides myself. While one guide didnt produce
any results due to the time which has now passed, I did obtain two valuations for cars of the
same make, model, age, features, mileage, and condition as Mr Cs car at the date of his
loss. These valuations gave a range between £10,495 and £10,930. Ultimately Wakam
offered £10,930, which was within this range. I think the approach Wakam took in valuing
Mr Cs car was fair. As Ive said above, valuing second-hand cars isnt an exact science so I
would expect there to be a range of values showing between the valuation guides, this isnt
unusual.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Wakam treated Mr C fairly when valuing
his car and I dont require it to increase its offer
Moving the car to a different location
Mr C is unhappy that Wakam moved his car from the police compound to salvage agents
much further away before he had the opportunity to collect his belongings.
Mr Cs vehicle was deemed a category S, which means it had structural damage that
needed repairing. The engineer said it was beyond economic repair and so it was deemed a
total loss. In this instance, Mr Cs policy states that Wakam will pay the market value and the 
vehicle becomes Wakams property. In any event, Mr C told us that he was considering
accepting Wakams offer and therefore he returned the V5 document and the car keys to
Wakam. It was therefore reasonable for Wakam to take responsibility for what happened to
the car when it was recovered.
Wakam told our service that when considering where to move a vehicle, it is dependent on
logistics rather than distance. While there was a salvage agent yard closer to Mr C, it was an
unmanned yard with more overflow and so it wasnt practical to send Mr Cs car there.
I have also seen a copy of the police letter which confirmed that if the vehicle hadnt been
collected within 2 weeks, the police would have disposed of it. Storage charges were also
incurred while the vehicle was in police compound.Taking all of the above into consideration, I think it was reasonable for Wakam to move the
vehicle to a location of its choice and it hadnt treated Mr C unfairly by doing so.
Personal belongings
Wakam confirmed that when a vehicle is recovered, its checked by the attending recovery
employee and any personal belongings found in the car would be stored by the salvage firm
and Wakam would be notified. In this case, Wakam was not notified of any personal
belongings being found in the vehicle. Wakam made further queries with the salvage agent
and it confirmed no personal items were found and furthermore that because the vehicle was
recovered from a police compound, all personal items would have been removed prior to the
vehicle being collected by the salvage agent as per the police policy.
I understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr C to be told he could collect his
belongings from the car and then to not have had the opportunity to check the car. However,
I need to think about whether theres been any loss to Mr C as a result. I understand that
Mr C says there were personal items in the car, and while that might have been the case,
Ive not seen any evidence that the items were still there when the car was recovered by the
police or that Mr C made any contact with the police in an attempt to recover his items. Im
therefore not persuaded that Wakam has treated Mr C unfairly or that it has led to a loss to
him. When a vehicle is usually stolen its likely that personal belongings, especially items of
value, would usually be taken during the theft.
I also agree with the investigator that Mr Cs policy doesnt provide cover for loss or damage
to personal items in the vehicle and so theres no cover under the policy for such losses.
In summary, having considered all of the above, I think Wakam treated Mr C fairly when
dealing with his claim. I therefore dont intend to ask Wakam to do anything further.
Wakam has confirmed that no payment has been made to Mr C in respect of his claim. If Mr
C accepts its offer, it will arrange payment upon receipt of the original V5 document (it
currently only has a copy of the document). If Mr C therefore wishes to accept the offer
made by Wakam for the loss of his car, he should contact Wakam directly.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. 
Wakam responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr C didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman