DRN-3771048
Complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) closed her account and 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In February 2019, a transfer of £29,500.00 was made to Miss Fs account. Miss Fs account 
was blocked pending a review. Halifax subsequently received a notification from the bank 
responsible for sending the payment to Miss Fs account stating the payee of the funds had 
reported being a victim of fraud. As a result of its investigation, it decided to close Halifax 
subsequently closed Miss Fs account and recorded a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss F complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Halifax looked at Miss Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss F remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Fs concerns. He didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons that will become apparent further on in this decision, Ive started by looking at 
Halifaxs decision to record a fraud marker.
The marker that Halifax has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss F is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Halifax must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Fs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Halifax also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss F was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss F allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Fs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Halifax had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Fs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Halifax did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Fs 
account in February 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss F was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss F initially told Halifax that she allowed someone access to her account because an 
older man approached her with a job opportunity to enable her to make money and she 
didnt know that her account would be used for fraudulent purposes. Miss F subsequently 
told us that the funds in question were sent to her by her boyfriend to buy items for her prom. 
Ive thought about what Miss F has said and Ive tried to give her the benefit of the doubt 
here. But Im afraid that the inconsistencies in her respective versions of events makes it 
difficult to place much weight on what shes now saying without any supporting evidence. 
Furthermore, Im also mindful that Miss F had an account closed a couple of years earlier as 
a result of similar activity having taken place. As Miss F had an account closed in these 
circumstances, its very difficult for me to accept that she didnt realise or appreciate that she 
may have been allowing her account to be used for illegitimate purposes and/or that there 
might be consequences for doing so.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Halifax did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Fs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss F was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Halifax to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Fs account. The terms and conditions of Miss Fs account 
state Halifax could close an account without notice in certain circumstances. These included 
where it reasonably think(s) there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the 
account. Ive already explained why I think Halifax was reasonably entitled to conclude that 
Miss Fs account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act 
unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Halifax to close Miss Fs account in the way that it did. And Im 
therefore not upholding Miss Fs complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss F. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss F says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope that Miss F will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss F might find that shes able 
to open an account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, 
rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman