DRN-3824370
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice given by a tied adviser from a predecessor business of Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited to take out Freestanding Additional Voluntary Contributions 
(FSAVC) pension plans. He says he shouldve been advised to opt for in-house Additional 
Voluntary contributions (AVCs) instead. 
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
In September 1995, Mr H took advice from a Friends Provident (FP) adviser, which is now 
part of Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva). For ease of reading, Ill mainly refer to Aviva 
in the decision. 
Mr H was a teacher aged 31 and a member of his employers occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) - the Teachers Superannuation Scheme. He was earning £16,894 and contributed 
£79.49 a month to his OPS, which had a retirement age of 60. He was interested in boosting 
his pension to enable him to retire at age 50 (in 2014), so was advised to start an FSAVC 
plan provided by FP. Mr H accepted the advice and started monthly contributions of £36 to 
the FSAVC plan. 
In March 1999 Mr H (and his wife) met with another FP adviser to discuss their pensions. Mr 
Hs salary was recorded as £23,193, he now intended to retire at age 55, and wished to use 
his surplus income to supplement his pension. So he was advised to increase his monthly 
FSAVC contributions by £25. According to Aviva Mr H continued contributions to the FSAVC 
policy until he turned 55 in 2019.
In February 2021 Mr H, through his CMC, complained to Aviva, saying FSAVCs were 
unsuitable, and Mr H wouldve been better off making AVCs to his OPS. They said the 
adviser had been negligent, he hadnt given one positive reason for recommending an 
FSAVC and didnt provide a true cost comparison. Had he done so its implausible Mr H 
wouldve chosen to start an FSAVC plan rather than the cheaper, in-house option. 
Aviva said the complaint had been made too late, being more than six years since the 
advice, and more than three years since Mr H ought to have known he had cause to 
complain. As the more detailed information provided in 1999 ought to have made Mr H 
question the earlier advice, so he shouldve complained sooner than he did. 
In September 2021 Mr H referred his complaint to this service, but Aviva didnt consent to 
our involvement, believing the complaint to be time-barred.
Provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2022, explaining why I thought the 
complaint had been brought in time. 
Although it had clearly been raised more than six years since the advice, I wasnt persuaded 
the additional or more comprehensive information the adviser gave Mr H in 1999 wouldve 
been enough to give him cause to complain about the 1995 advice. 
But having said I thought the complaint had been brought within the time limits our service is 
bound by, I didnt uphold the merits. 
I said it was important to remember the advice in both cases was given by a tied adviser of 
FP, and the polarisation rules which applied at the time meant they werent permitted to 
discuss any products other than their own providers.
The 1995 sale
The code of conduct the adviser was expected to follow was set by the then regulator 
LAUTRO. A representative had to exercise due skill, care and diligence and to deal fairly 
with investors. Which meant as well as explaining the benefits of the FSAVC plan they were 
recommending, they needed to have regard of the consumers financial position generally, 
and any rights they had under an occupational scheme. Even if they didnt know the 
specifics of the consumers actual OPS, its likely any adviser would be aware of the generic 
benefits of the in-house option such as: 
Money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational scheme, 
particularly in the public sector - these provided a guaranteed benefit linked to salary and 
an additional component of tax-free cash, neither of which were available under an 
FSAVC
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option
Aviva provided the FSAVC application form Mr H signed on 16 August 1995, plus some 
other correspondence from the time of the sale. Mr H opted to contribute £36 per month to 
an FSAVC plan, which he intended to do until hed be 50 in 2014. And he was provided with 
an illustration based on the plan growing at 6%, 9% and 12% per year until then. The 
application form doesnt assess Mr Hs attitude to risk, but it seems 90% of his contributions 
were to be invested in the With Profits fund.
As well as highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC provided by their firm, a tied adviser was 
still expected to make the consumer aware that their employer was likely to offer AVCs, 
probably from a different provider. The adviser wasnt expected to provide a detailed 
comparison of the products, but they should have mentioned the generic features, including 
that AVC charges are likely to be lower than an FSAVC, and that the employer may match or 
top up personal contributions. 
It looks like Mr H had joined his OPS around four years previously, when its likely hed have 
been provided with literature explaining ways he could boost his pension savings, although 
he may not have been in a position to make use of them at the time.
Aviva doesnt have FPs full file from 1995, so theres no evidence to show what Mr H was 
told, or the basis for the recommendation for an FSAVC policy over AVCs. So its not 
possible to say the sale was compliant in line with the standards applicable at the time. 
In May 1996 (so after the first sale but before the second) the then regulator (the Personal 
Investment Authority or PIA) issued regulatory update RU20, which built on the LAUTRO 
guidance. This made clear that advisers were expected to: Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative;
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes;
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house 
option;
The 1999 sale
I was satisfied in 1999 Mr H had been made aware of the in-house AVC option, that charges 
were likely to be lower with AVCs and hed been directed to his OPS for more details. 
The updated fact-find completed at the 1999 meeting captured more information about Mr 
Hs wider financial circumstances. By now he was aged 35, married with a small child, and 
his salary had increased by over £6,000 since the 1995 application. But he had a mortgage 
to pay, and although his wife worked, its recorded that she planned to stop when they had a 
second child. So Mr H foresaw being the sole earner and had worked out he had £25 per 
month available to top up his pension.
Its not recorded on the fact-find, but I think its likely Mr Hs employee pension contributions 
would have risen in line with his salary, and hed have more disposable income to commit to 
his pension. But even without the exact figures, it seems Mr H hadnt opted for his 
contributions to be increased annually, and still kept his overall pension contributions well 
within the 15% limit (roughly £290 per month). So while he wanted to use some of his 
available surplus income to boost his pension, I think its likely keeping contribution costs low 
was important for Mr H. And higher costs, inherent with the FSAVC wouldve have had a 
greater impact on the return he would receive from those contributions.
On the Recommendations page of the fact find, the adviser had noted recommending a 
£25 net increment to the FSAVC policy and that in-house AVC discussed. The adviser 
followed up by sending Mr H a letter in May 1999, confirming the recommendation which 
said Mr H may be eligible to make additional contributions to your occupational scheme and 
that you should contact your employer for more information. 
The letter also said the adviser had explained the different features to Mr H and had left him 
with a comparison leaflet. Id seen the leaflet in which each option was clearly laid out as a 
table with columns comparing FSAVCs and in-house AVCs under various headings. Under 
Charges/Expenses it read charges under in house AVCs will usually be lower than 
FSAVCs due to economies of scale. It doesnt specifically explain that higher charges would 
impact fund growth, and I took the CMCs point that Mr H wasnt an actuary or even from a 
financial services background. But I dont think it was necessary to have specific knowledge 
to understand that lower charges for essentially the same product are preferable, unless the 
FSAVC had specific advantages which the in-house option couldnt provide. 
I said the portability of an FSAVC was likely to be less important to a teacher like Mr H as 
they can remain members of the same OPS throughout their career. 
And under Important Notes it read Some in-house AVC schemes provide for an additional 
contribution from the employer, dependent on the amount of AVC contribution payable by 
the member because employers cannot pay directly to an FSAVC plan. Friends Provident 
recommends that clients should take advantage of in-house arrangements in these 
circumstances. 
I thought the information provided was clear, fair and not misleading, as it says charges will 
usually rather than may be lower. And Mr H was directed to his OPS for information about 
the in-house options, but the adviser didnt have to ensure he did so. I said the evidence doesnt suggest Mr H was put under time pressure to make a decision, 
as the comparison chart was left with him, and the suitability letter had been sent after the 
meeting. Yet Mr H went ahead and increased his FSAVC contributions rather than pursuing 
the in-house option. As hed done this in 1999 when there was evidence he had been given 
clear information to help his decision, I didnt think it was likely hed have made a different 
choice in 1995.
So my provisional decision was Mr H had raised his complaint in time, but I didnt uphold it.
Responses to the provisional decision 
Both parties responded to the provisional decision.
Aviva agreed with the outcome and enclosed an example of a non-uphold decision relating 
to another of their FSAVC cases, which they say was similar to this one.
Mr Hs representatives responded in detail, citing several other FSAVC complaints theyve 
previously brought to this service, whereby the investigator or ombudsman had upheld the 
complaint and awarded redress. They made the following points:
They were pleased the PD agreed the 1999 sale wasnt sufficiently compliant to 
time-bar the complaint. 
As Aviva cant provide the full FP file for the 1995 sale, (which COBS 9.5 says they 
should hold indefinitely) we must assume it was non-compliant;
They referred to wording from other views and decisions where various investigators 
or ombudsmen hadnt been satisfied a business (not always Aviva or FP) had 
compared FSAVCs with the in-house option, particularly in relation to the charges.
And in summary they said the business has failed a regulatory obligation to keep records 
and has no evidence to show the 1995 sale was compliant, and the 1999 is non-compliant 
and there is no record of any discussion about the crucial issue of charges. The tied adviser 
simply hasnt complied with all 3 key points of the regulators guidance.
So Im now in a position to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision explained why I thought Mr H had brought his complaint in time. As 
this no longer appears to be in dispute, Ill focus on giving my reasons for why Im not 
upholding the complaint.
I must first correct a point made by the CMC in response to the PD. I didnt say the 1999 
sale wasnt sufficiently compliant. When assessing whether the complaint should be time-
barred, I made no comment on whether the sale was compliant. I simply said due to the 
limited records, I couldnt be entirely sure what Mr H had been told in 1995. But I didnt think 
the additional or more comprehensive information which the evidence showed he had been 
given in 1999, wouldve given him cause to complain about the earlier sale.
And in relation to the other FSAVC cases the CMC has mentioned, Id say:Each case is considered on its particular facts and circumstances, so cases which 
may appear similar, can have key differences which lead to a different outcome. 
For example in some cases charges werent mentioned at all, or the information was 
misleading, suggesting they may rather than will usually be cheaper, or that the 
difference in charges would balance out over the life of the plan.
Our service is obliged to publish our decisions (in anonymised form) so its possible 
to find examples of tied-adviser FSAVC complaints which have been upheld and 
rejected. 
Each ombudsman is required to apply their own judgment to a case.
Its not appropriate to review individual case files, (which include the consumers 
personal details), without a specific reason.
In the Aviva cases theyd cited, the tied adviser had represented different firms, not 
FP, and there were material differences to the facts or circumstances of this one, 
hence different outcomes.
It might be helpful if the full file from 1995 still existed, including any notes the adviser made 
of the discussion with Mr H. But given it took place almost 30 years ago, and FP didnt 
become part of Aviva until 2015, I dont find it surprising that not everything has survived 
from that time. 
The CMCs position is Aviva has failed in a regulatory duty as COBS 9.5.2 requires firms to 
retain FSAVC records indefinitely. But COBS, which forms part of the current regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), rule book, only came into force in 2007, prior to that in 
2001 it was COB under the Financial Services Authority (FSA). At the time in question the 
regulator was LAUTRO, followed by the PIA. Their code of conduct required firms to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Its likely there was a 
requirement for firms to keep accurate records, but that doesnt necessarily mean keeping 
everything indefinitely. Alongside this, firms also have to follow data protection guidance and 
their own internal records management policies, which generally require information to be 
kept no longer than necessary. 
Aviva doesnt have no record of the 1995 sale, theres no suitability letter as that wasnt a 
requirement at the time. But it holds a scanned copy of the FP application form, 
correspondence, illustrations, and a checklist, which serves as a rudimentary fact-find. This 
document has ticked Yes to the question In-house AVCs discussed. So while we dont 
have any notes the adviser may have made, it looks like a discussion took place, I just cant 
be sure what was said. A more comprehensive fact-find was completed in 1999, and this 
included the advisers hand-written note confirming In-house AVCs discussed. 
The sales were carried out by a FP tied adviser 20 and 16 years before FP became part of 
Aviva in 2015. I dont believe it would be fair to say that simply because Aviva cant evidence 
exactly what was discussed and in how much detail, it must automatically be assumed the 
sale was non-compliant with the rules the adviser had to follow at the time. 
I dont agree the adviser was required to carry out a full comparison of FPs FSAVC with the 
AVCs offered by Mr Hs OPS. Its likely hed have some generic knowledge of a large OPS 
like the Teachers Superannuation scheme Mr H was a member of. But for personalised 
information the adviser was expected to direct Mr H to his OPS, he wasnt required to do that 
on Mr Hs behalf, or to ensure hed done so.
The recommendation letter dated 14 May 1999 doesnt mention charges specifically, but it 
stated that the different features of employers AVC arrangements and Freestanding AVC 
had been discussed, and that these were detailed in the comparison chart which had been 
left with Mr H. I think when Mr H received that letter, if such a discussion hadnt taken place hed have queried it at the time. I think it makes sense for any discussion to have followed 
the format of that leaflet and given that charges were prominently set out in the table (fourth 
heading out of eight) I see no reason they wouldnt have been commented on. I think the 
table provided a fair comparison, as it stated clearly that AVC charges will usually be lower, 
due to economies of scale and reduced administration expenses, which almost exactly 
reflects the wording in RU20. The important notes section was only four bullet points, so 
wouldnt have taken long for Mr H to read through and understand that if he wanted details 
of the AVC scheme hed need to obtain them from his employer. And if his employer would 
make additional contributions, FP recommended taking advantage of AVCs. I think the 
information was presented clearly, such that it would be understood by someone without a 
financial services background. So Im satisfied Mr H had enough information to make an 
informed choice. 
The comparison leaflet was left with Mr H giving him time to consider it carefully, obtain 
information from his OPS, and raise any questions he had before deciding what to do. Mr H 
hasnt said whether he approached his OPS for more information about the in-house 
options, and due to the passage of time, perhaps he cant remember. But its clear he was 
directed to do so, which is what the adviser was expected to do. The letter also included a 
reference to FSA (the then regulator) guidance issued in March 1999 which required 
advisers to ensure any policies they recommended were capable of transferring to the new 
Stakeholder pensions when they were introduced. The adviser confirmed this policy was 
covered by the guidance, which I think demonstrates FP ensured its advisers followed the 
regulatory guidance applicable at the time.
So having considered the available evidence, I think Mr H had enough information to make 
an informed choice in 1999, including being aware AVC charges would likely be lower. I 
cant say whether he was also made aware of this in 1995. But despite the more detailed 
information he had in 1999, when faced with an almost identical choice on how to 
supplement his OPS as hed been given in 1995, Mr H still chose to continue with FSAVC 
contributions, instead of an in-house AVCs. And theres no evidence he explored the in-
house options further when advised to do so. So I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman