DRN-1911496
The complaint
Mr N complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited handled his claim for a broken 
boiler. Hes also unhappy with the service he received.
What happened
Mr N holds a HomeCare policy with British Gas Insurance Limited  hereafter referred to as 
British Gas. 
On 8 November 2019 a British Gas engineer attended Mr Ns home address in order to 
undertake an annual boiler service. Mr N said prior to the service he didnt experience any 
problems with his boiler. And he said the engineer informed him that his boiler was in 
working order. 
However, shortly after the boiler service Mr N said he noticed the timings of the heating 
werent coming up as previously set and he had no heating or hot water in the house. So, he 
contacted British Gas to request the attendance of an engineer. 
On 17 November 2019 an engineer attended Mr Ns property and informed him a faulty 
electrode lead had caused the boiler to stop working. They said they were unable to repair 
the boiler so it would need replacing. 
Mr N stated his boiler had been in good working order up to the date of the service. And he 
felt he wasnt given an explanation as to why it had failed  particularly given that the 
servicing engineer had deemed the boiler to be in good working order at the time of the 
service. 
Mr N didnt agree that his boiler had broken down due to wear and tear. Instead, he thought 
the engineer whod serviced his boiler had caused it to break. He also thought his boiler was 
repairable because the service report indicated that all functional parts were available. But 
British Gas disagreed and told Mr N his only option was to purchase and install a new boiler.
As Mr N's house remained without heating and hot water during a very cold time of year, and 
while his wife was suffering ill health, he said he felt obligated to purchase a new boiler from 
British Gas. But after the new boiler was fitted the issues affecting Mr Ns property werent 
resolved despite multiple engineer visits. So, he complained. 
When British Gas responded to Mr Ns complaint it explained that it had attempted to repair 
his boiler but hadnt been able to do so because the part that needed replacing was 
obsolete. So, the boiler had had to be replaced. It therefore didnt uphold this part of Mr Ns 
complaint. But it didnt accept that the customer service hed received was poor and it sent 
him a cheque for £170 in compensation to recognise that.
Being dissatisfied with British Gas response to his complaint Mr N referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the information provided by Mr N and British Gas and 
recommended upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded that British Gas had dealt 
with this complaint fairly. And they recommended that it should pay Mr N a further £130 compensation to reflect the impact of errors it had made. But British Gas disagreed with our 
investigators view of Mr Ns complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake, or treated Mr N 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. So Ive thought very carefully about what 
happened.
I can see Mr N and British Gas have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some 
detailed points about this complaint. I want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve 
sent us. But I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this 
decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to this complaint.
Mr N believes the fault his boiler developed was caused by British Gas. But I can see that 
when the British Gas engineer attended Mr Ns property on 8 November 2019 and carried 
out the service no faults were reported. 
I think if a fault had been identified at the time of the boiler service this would have been 
recorded by the engineer. Im therefore not persuaded, based on the evidence available to 
me, that the fault was caused by the engineer who serviced Mr Ns boiler. And I think, on 
balance, the electrode lead developed the fault after the service took place. It follows that I 
cant hold British Gas responsible for that.
I understand that Mr N disputes a replacement boiler was necessary. He believes British 
Gas could have repaired his boiler. And I can understand why he might think this given that 
the servicing engineer completed a report stating that all functional boiler parts were 
available. But Ive seen evidence that proves that the parts required to repair the boiler were 
obsolete. This is unsurprising given the age of the boiler. And it explains why British Gas 
was unable to complete a boiler repair. Im therefore satisfied that the only option available 
to Mr N was for his boiler to be replaced. 
Ive seen evidence that shows Mr Ns boiler was around 18 years old. It was installed in 
January 2002. Our service would take the view that this is beyond the typical life span of a 
boiler. And I can see this is reflected in Mr Ns HomeCare policy, which states it wont 
replace a boiler under the terms of the policy where the boiler is over ten years old. I 
therefore cant fairly find that British Gas acted unfairly in declining to cover the cost of 
replacing Mr Ns boiler.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied British Gas took reasonable steps to make Mr N aware of 
the limits of his HomeCare policy. I say this because the renewal quote he received from 
British Gas advised him that his boiler was no longer manufactured and, due to its age, may 
not be repairable in the event it broke down. 
Ive also seen evidence that Mr N was made aware by British Gas during 2012 and 2014 
that there were limited parts available for his boiler and he should consider replacing it. Im 
therefore persuaded that Mr N ought to have known his boiler was approaching the end of its 
serviceable life and would require replacing. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded British Gas applied the 
terms of Mr Ns HomeCare policy unfairly in declining to cover the cost of replacing his boiler. And Im satisfied it couldnt repair Mr Ns boiler due to its age and the parts it needed 
being obsolete. I therefore dont uphold this part of Mr Ns complaint.
Putting things right
Ill turn now to Mr Ns concerns about the service he received from British Gas and Ill 
explain why Im upholding this part of his complaint. 
Its clear that the service Mr N received from British Gas was poor. Following the new boiler 
installation it was identified that a pipe had been fitted incorrectly, which had caused the 
boiler to fail. So, instead of the issues affecting Mr Ns property being resolved they 
continued until the pipework was reconfigured. Mr N was also misinformed about the 
availability of parts in the annual servicing report the engineer completed. And multiple 
engineer visits were made to Mr N's property after the new boiler was installed. 
In recognition of the trouble and upset Mr N was caused British Gas has already paid him 
£170 compensation. Its clear Mr N doesnt feel that fairly reflects his experience here. With 
that in mind, Ive thought carefully about what a fair offer to put things right looks like here.
Our investigator recommended British Gas pay further compensation of £130  bringing the 
total award to £300. But British Gas feels this recommendation is unfair and disproportionate 
given it had advised Mr N that his boiler needed replacing from 2012 onwards. 
While I hear what British Gas has said here, I think its important to say that when our 
service considers an award of compensation we look at the impact of a business mistake on 
the consumer.
Its clear that Mr N was misinformed about the availability of parts in the annual servicing 
report the engineer completed. I think this set an unrealistic expectation in Mr Ns mind about 
whether his boiler could be repaired if it were to break down. And I can understand why this 
caused him to question why British Gas was telling him his boiler had to be replaced.
As I mentioned previously an error was made during the new boiler installation process, 
which while subsequently remedied, meant that Mr Ns property continued to be without 
heating and hot water for a short while. I can appreciate how frustrating that was because 
this all happened during a period of very cold weather and while Mr Ns wife was suffering ill 
health.
Ive seen evidence that multiple engineer visits took place after the new boiler was installed. 
These visits wouldnt have been necessary had the boiler been fitted correctly. And this 
caused a delay in resolving the issues affecting Mr Ns heating and hot water. I can see that 
Mr N was also caused inconvenience as each engineer visit that had been arranged 
required him to take time off work. 
Its clear to me that this all caused trouble and upset, which was further exacerbated 
because of the time of year and Mr N wifes ill health. Having had regard to the impact British 
Gas mistakes had on Mr N, Im not persuaded the compensation already paid adequately 
recognises the distress and inconvenience he would have experienced here. 
Like our investigator I dont think British Gas did enough to resolve Mr Ns complaint. And Im 
satisfied that the additional £130 compensation award recommended by our investigator 
would be fair and reasonable here. This takes the overall award to £300, which is in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances. I understand that British Gas has 
already paid Mr N £170 compensation. So, it should now pay him and additional £130 
compensation to resolve this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint about the service he received. British Gas 
Insurance Limited should pay Mr N an additional £130 in compensation to resolve this part of 
his complaint (taking the total amount to £300).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman