DRN-2022192
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for £4,220 over 51 months, with monthly repayments of 
£149.56. At the time, the car was almost 8 years old and had done 67,388 miles. In June 
2019 the car broke down and, as a result, the clutch was replaced.  
Mr M complained to Moneybarn on 28 June 2019, a few days before he had the clutch 
replaced. In response, Moneybarn said they thought the clutch was a wear and tear issue, 
but they reimbursed Mr M for the cost of the replacement as a goodwill gesture. Mr M 
accepted this, but he said he also wanted to reject the car. Moneybarn didnt agree and Mr 
M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in August 2019.
While the complaint was being investigated, Mr M raised further issues about the car. And in 
March 2020 he provided a report from a local garage which detailed some faults with the car. 
These have been considered as part of the overall investigation, and Mr M didnt raise them 
as separate complaints with Moneybarn in the first instance. These further issues were that:
There was a water leak in the engine;
The head gasket was on its way out;
He had difficulty selecting reverse gear;
The engine was rusty;
He was having difficulty starting the car;
When he took possession of the car it hadnt been serviced in the last 12-months;
The tools and jack for replacing a wheel were missing;
A previous owner of the car had already returned it to Moneybarn.
Our investigator said Mr M had bought a used car which had done a significant amount of 
mileage and might already have suffered notable wear and tear. So she thought there was a 
greater risk that parts would need replacing much quicker than on a brand-new car.
The investigator said there was evidence of faults with the car after Mr M replaced the 
clutch. But she said that, just because there were faults, it didnt mean the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Because it was unknown how many miles the car had been driven between Mr M taking 
possession and replacing the clutch, or whether the clutch was an issue when the car was 
supplied, the investigator thought Moneybarn reimbursing Mr M for the cost of the clutch 
replacement was a fair way to resolve this.
The March 2020 report on the car had shown there were other faults. The investigator spoke 
to the company who did the report, and they didnt think these faults were present at the time 
the car was supplied to Mr M. The investigator also spoke to the company who replaced the 
clutch. They said they didnt come across any other problems at the time they did the work, 
and they said they wouldve brought these to Mr Ms attention if they had.
Because of this, the investigator thought the other faults with the car were normal wear and 
tear, and the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M. So she didnt 
think Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
The investigator said that servicing wasnt a legal requirement and the manufacturer 
recommended servicing yearly or every 20,000 miles - the car had done less than 20,000 
miles since the last service when it was supplied to Mr M. And the MOT carried out just 
before the car was supplied to Mr M didnt indicate any problems The investigator also said 
there were a number of reasons why a car can be returned. So this doesnt mean its 
automatically of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He doesnt think the problems with the car are wear 
and tear. He believes theres a problem with the engine which has been there from day 
one. He feels hes paying for a car he cant use and is off the road because its unsafe to 
drive. Hed like Moneybarn to take the car back, so hes asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  
Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
given the price, description other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
When Mr M took possession of the car in May 2019, it was almost 8 years old and had done 
67,388 miles. Id expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And I 
think any reasonable person would expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the car 
over time.
The car broke down in June 2019 and Mr M had the clutch replaced. A clutch isnt designed 
to last the lifetime of a car, and its reasonable to expect this to need replacing at some point. 
With an issue like this arising so soon after it was supplied, Itd be reasonable to expect this 
to be flagged to Moneybarn. This would allow the car to be inspected and, if the clutch 
problem was determined to be present when the car was supplied, the dealership could be 
given the opportunity to repair the problem and/or Mr M could ask to return the car.Mr M having the clutch replaced himself stopped this happening. I understand why Mr M 
took this course of action  hes in Norfolk and the dealership was in Manchester. But 
because of this, its now not possible to say whether the clutch problems were present when 
the car was supplied. So I cant say if Mr M wouldve had the right to reject the car because 
of the clutch. But Moneybarn reimbursed Mr M for the cost of the replacement clutch as a 
goodwill gesture. Given the circumstances, I consider this was reasonable.
Mr M has had further problem with the car after the clutch was replaced. I need to consider 
whether those faults, and the repairs Mr Ms car needed, means the car was not of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
Mr M arranged for his car to be inspected on 2 March 2020. Ive seen a copy of the report 
following this inspection, which says:
Engine starts on key, although does turn over for a while before starting, has water 
leak from hose to thermostat housing and possibly leak at thermostat housing. Oil 
filer cap shows signs of water and oil mixing to underside, however dip stick only has 
oil on it. Suspect early signs of cylinder head gasket worn or possibly oil breather 
fault. Slight difficulty put gearbox into reverse gear  has had clutch changed 6 
months ago, possibly poor sector alignment.
The investigator spoke to the person who completed this inspection. They said its likely the 
issues identified have only just started  they come on quickly so were unlikely to have been 
present when Mr M took possession of the car. They also said that, given the age of the car, 
any water leak would be rusty water, so it would leave a rusty crust on anything it touched. 
This surface crust would make it look like the engine was rusty, so I understand why Mr M 
has thought that it was.
Ive also seen that the investigator spoke to the garage who replaced the clutch on Mr Ms 
car. While they were working on the clutch and wouldnt necessarily have inspected the rest 
of the car, they have confirmed that, if theyd seen any other issues with Mr Ms car, they 
wouldve made him aware of these at the time.
Mr M has also provided an invoice dated 27 July 2020, from the garage who replaced the 
clutch. This is for the work to fix the water leak and the starting problem. Based on the 
conversation the investigator had with this garage, I think its most likely that these issues 
werent present when the clutch was replaced in 2019. 
Its unfortunate for Mr M that his car developed problems which led to further repairs being 
needed. But all the evidence Ive seen suggests these problems werent present when he 
took possession of the car. And, given the age of the car and the mileage itd already done, 
the need to have to replace worn out engine components wouldve been reasonably 
expected.
Because of this, I dont agree that Moneybarn are responsible for the costs of repairing Mr 
Ms car, nor do I think they should take the car back and unwind the finance agreement. Im 
satisfied Mr Ms car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied, considering all the relevant 
circumstances.
Mr M has said that, when he was supplied with the car, while it had a valid MOT it hadnt had 
a service in the last 12-months. Its not a legal requirement for cars to be serviced regularly, 
so Moneybarn didnt do anything wrong by supplying a car that had been serviced within the 
last 20,000 miles, but not within the last 12-months. Mr M has pointed out that the car was supplied without a jack or any tools to change a 
wheel. Again, this isnt a legal requirement. And with older cars these things like this can go 
missing. This is something Mr M couldve raised with the dealer when he took possession of 
the car, so I dont think Moneybarn need to do anything about this. 
And I havent seen anything to show me that the car was advertised as being sold with a full-
service history and/or as having all tools included. So I dont think the lack of a recent 
service or the missing tools means that the car was misrepresented when Mr M took 
possession of it.
Mr M has said he has paperwork which shows a previous owner financed the same car 
through Moneybarn. And they didnt keep hold of it for very long. The previous owner 
couldve got rid of the car for many reasons, for example suitability or affordability. So I dont 
think this automatically means the car wasnt of a satisfactory standard when it was supplied 
to Mr M. For the reasons stated above, Ive seen no evidence that it wasnt.
Finally, the report on Mr Ms car from March 2020 indicated their may be an alignment issue 
with the gear selector / clutch. Although Moneybarn reimbursed the cost of replacing the 
clutch, as Mr M arranged this himself, this is something he should consider raising with the 
garage who did the work.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman