DRN-2748356
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a 
claim made under an Engineering Policy.
J is being represented in the complaint by B. But for ease of reference Ill refer to J directly in 
my decision.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
What happened
J operates a hydroelectric plant which is covered by an Engineering Policy underwritten by 
Aviva.
In November 2019, J logged a claim with Aviva which related to a coupling failure at the 
plant. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
A site visit took place and an estimate for the repairs was provided. Aviva then engaged the 
services of a forensic metal expert in order to determine the cause of the damage.
The expert report concluded that on the balance of probabilities a stone or other such matter 
got caught between the screw and trough, resulting in a sudden stoppage of the screw and 
consequently a large shear force being applied to the coupler.
In June 2020, Aviva provided its final response to the claim and applied an exclusion in the 
policy which excluded damage caused by foreign bodies or material entering the plant. The 
exact wording of this exclusion as set out in Js policy schedule states:
Foreign Bodies Exclusion
The indemnity provided under this Section excludes Damage to Plant or Machinery caused 
by foreign bodies or materials entering the Plant or Machinery.
Aviva therefore turned down the claim. It offered J £500 compensation for the time taken to 
reach its decision.
J didnt agree with Avivas response and referred the complaint to our service. In summary, 
J said:
Aviva had applied the exclusion unfairly as it had been unable to evidence the size of 
the foreign body  all safety precautions were in place so that objects larger than 
100mm in diameter were unable to pass through the system.
As the system was designed to allow objects smaller than 100mm to pass through, 
any object under this size shouldnt be interpreted as a foreign body.
Aviva hadnt defined the term foreign body in the policy wording, so materials that 
are supposed to be within the plant during its operation shouldnt be noted as a 
foreign body.
The way in which the plant operated meant it was impossible to mitigate material 
under 100mm, as this would render the system useless due to the restricted water 
flow.
That the broker of the policy had spoken to the underwriter who provided the terms 
and had been told they didnt have an issue with the claim being settled.
That Aviva had misinterpreted the intention of the exclusion and the event was a 
sudden, unforeseen breakdown which was covered under the policy.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
concluded Aviva had applied the exclusion fairly in the circumstances and were satisfied that 
the exclusion showed Aviva wouldnt cover any damage caused by foreign bodies or 
materials entering the plant regardless of the circumstances.
J didnt agree. In addition to the points above it said:
The investigator interpreted the foreign bodies exclusion incorrectly.
The investigator reached an unreasonable decision.
The process by which the investigator reached their conclusions was biased in 
seeking to provide an answer to both parties.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first address the allegation of bias related to our investigators findings. The crux of Js 
argument here is that in seeking to provide the right answer to both parties, the investigator 
has allowed their findings to be tainted by apparent bias through the actions of obtaining 
additional guidance and in not addressing their response solely to J.
I dont agree. The role of our service is to provide an impartial outcome to both parties based 
on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. And having 
reviewed everything I am satisfied that is what has happened here. Where one, or both 
parties disagree with the outcome, it is my role to consider the complaint afresh and provide 
both parties with my final decision.
Ill now consider the main issue of Js appeal, which concerns the application and 
interpretation of the foreign bodies exclusion. 
The cause of the damage being claimed for doesnt appear to be in dispute between the 
parties, but J feels the application of the foreign bodies exclusion is unfair as its hydro 
system allows all material less than 100mm in size to pass through the screw. It strongly 
feels that the damage should therefore be accepted under the accidental damage section of 
the policy.The exclusion Aviva has relied on applies to this section of the policy. Im satisfied that J has 
shown a sudden, unforeseen event occurred. So in order to uphold this complaint, I would 
need to be persuaded that either Aviva applied the exclusion unfairly, or, that the exclusion 
was sufficiently unclear in that the terms should be interpreted in favour of J.
Ive considered the circumstances of the claim and the expert report provided. Ive also 
considered Js comments that the underwriter of the policy had no issue with the claim being 
settled when they spoke with the broker in April 2020. 
Understandably, the opinion of the underwriter who underwrote the policy should reasonably 
be seen to carry a lot of weight here, so I asked Aviva for further details of these 
conversations, and whether there was any internal discussion on the matter.
In response, Aviva provided comments from the same underwriter who stated, We are 
asked to put the foreign bodies exclusion onto all hydro policies to exclude cover where 
materials are washed into the system causing damage. I would therefore suggest that if the 
stone caused the damage then we would not cover.
So, whilst Ive no reason to doubt that the conversation between the underwriter and the 
broker took place as described, I am more persuaded by the underwriters comments setting 
out the reasons for the exclusion and when it would be applied.
My role isnt to decide what risks an insurer decides to underwrite. And in the circumstances 
of this case, its clear that Aviva has asked its underwriters to apply the exclusion for foreign 
bodies to all hydro policies in order to mitigate itself from the scenario detailed in the expert 
report below:
The expert report stated that The very fact of the failure implies the application of a large, 
instantaneous forcethe initial failure was likely to have been a result of the screw being 
temporarily arrested by a foreign body such as a stone passing into the gap between the 
water screw and the trough in which it ran, and jamming the blade. 
And the manufacturers report appended to this states, It looks like there was something 
between the screw and the trough, because the coupling is the weakest part of the 
installation, is this [sic] totally destroyed.
Therefore having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied Aviva applied the exclusion 
fairly in the circumstances and in line with its original underwriting instructions for the policy. 
Ill next consider Js comments about the interpretation of the exclusion.
J says our investigator hasnt addressed the issue of what constitutes a foreign body, or 
fairly applied the rules for interpreting an insurance contract. Given that the term foreign 
bodies or materials isnt defined in the policy, it has provided what it says is a common 
definition or ordinary meaning of the words, saying, the ordinary English meaning of the 
phrase might be regarded as covering damage to the plant caused by a mass not related to 
or connected with the plant.
As such, J concludes that the exclusion can only mean it excludes cover for things that do 
not belong in the place where they have been found. But as its plant is designed to 
accommodate materials up to 100mm in size, J says it follows that any material below this 
size cannot by definition be described as a foreign body.Aviva says Js interpretation isnt correct. It has provided its own ordinary definition of the 
term as an object or piece of extraneous matter that has entered the body by accident or 
design. It says that this negates the design element of Js argument about materials less 
than 100mm being allowed to pass through the system. So, Aviva concludes that as its 
investigations found that a stone or material most likely caused the damage, this fairly meets 
the definition of a foreign body.
In any event, whilst I acknowledge the point J is making here and its interpretation of the 
exclusion, Im not persuaded that Aviva has made the exclusion ambiguous by failing to 
define a foreign body in the policy terms. Im satisfied the exclusion covers the cause of 
damage and is in line with the underwritten risk of the policy  in that Aviva will not cover any 
damage caused by foreign bodies or material entering the system without exception. 
Therefore I do not think the wording is ambiguous and unfortunately for J, this means that I 
dont think the claim should succeed.
Ive also considered Js comments that Avivas final response raised questions about safety 
measures which are for a different type of hydro scheme, so it wasnt clear to Aviva what it 
was insuring. But the presentation of risk forms Ive seen clearly show the type of scheme J 
wanted insured. And the underwriting instruction Ive referred to above shows the foreign 
bodies endorsement was to apply to all hydro policies, regardless of the type of scheme. So 
cant say J has been treated unfairly or any differently here.
Ive considered Avivas offer of £500 compensation for the delay in reaching its decision to 
turn down the claim. And overall I think this amount for the inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont require Aviva to do anything further here.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman