DRN-3719791
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy TSB Bank plc refused to lend after theyd paid for a structural 
survey on the property they wanted to buy. They want TSB to refund the survey fee and 
meet additional moving costs they incurred while they appealed the lending decision. They 
would also like compensation for the stress they say the application process caused them 
and their family.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs S and Mr S applied to port their mortgage with TSB Bank plc. TSB 
appointed a surveyor to carry out a valuation of the new property in April. She initially valued 
the property at nil due to concerns about its structural condition. And she recommended a 
structural engineer inspect to confirm the cause of damage and repairs required. 
TSB declined Mrs S and Mr Ss application following the engineers report and the valuers 
second report that repairs were needed before the property would provide adequate security 
for TSBs loan.
Mrs S and Mr S had understood from the surveyor that any repairs needed were likely to be 
limited. Theyd gone ahead with the structural engineers report on the understanding they 
could use the cost of any repairs the report recommended to negotiate a lower purchase 
price. They thought TSB might offer a mortgage subject to a retention until repairs had been 
carried out. But they hadnt expected their application to be declined.
Mrs S and Mr S appealed TSBs decision. They decided to sell their property so as not to 
lose their buyer and moved into rented accommodation while the appeal was considered. 
TSB escalated Mrs S and Mr Ss application for review internally. But they didnt overturn 
their original decision not to lend on the property. 
Mrs S and Mr S complained. They said the surveyor had given conflicting information about 
the value of the property and shed led them to think TSB would lend to them once the 
structural engineer had reported. They were unhappy TSB failed to warn them they may not 
lend at all once theyd got the structural engineers report. They said if theyd known the 
engineers report wouldnt affect TSBs lending decision, as they now believe, they wouldnt 
have gone ahead and incurred the cost. And they said TSB should refund the structural 
engineers fee.
Mrs S and Mr S said they were advised to appeal TSBs original decision by the surveyor. 
The additional costs of moving into rented accommodation and moving again when they 
bought another property later were £900. They felt TSB should pay these costs as they knew 
they wouldnt change their decision given the valuations and the direction they had given to 
the surveyor whod prepared them. They may not have needed to move twice if they hadnt 
appealed the decision. And it had been very disruptive and stressful for their family. Mrs S 
and Mr S felt TSB should meet the additional costs of moving and compensate them for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd suffered as well as the poor service theyd received when 
they complained.
TSB didnt uphold their complaint. Since Mrs S and Mr S were unhappy with TSBs 
response, they brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt 
think TSB had done anything wrong. Since Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree, their complaints 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mrs S and Mr S found their house buying process stressful and about the 
impact it had on their family. And I acknowledge their strength of feeling about what 
happened. 
I may not mention everything the parties have told us. No discourtesy is intended by that. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Id like to reassure the parties 
Ive carefully considered all the information theyve given us before coming to my decision.
I note the surveyor was preparing both a valuation report for mortgage purposes and a more 
detailed report for Mrs S and Mr S. As is usual, Mrs S and Mr S paid for both. I appreciate 
Mrs S and Mr S feel they were put under pressure to get a homebuyers report. Thats not 
part of the complaint they made to TSB and that Im looking at here. As our investigator 
explained, Mrs S and Mr S would need to complain about that to TSB to give them the 
chance to respond before we could look into it. 
The valuer was acting on TSBs instructions as regards the valuation. She was suitably 
qualified and independent from TSB. So, TSB werent responsible for her actions or the 
advice she gave. And they were entitled to rely on the valuations she prepared. 
Mrs S and Mr S are concerned TSB instructed the surveyor to value the property at nil where 
she considered work needed to be done before the property was acceptable security. The 
evidence suggests TSB gave the valuer guidance to put a nil valuation on a property where 
works were considered essential. And in this case they told the valuer they didnt offer 
retention mortgages and theyd require all the works the valuer considered were necessary 
to be completed before theyd accept the property as security. I dont think TSB were 
instructing the surveyor on the opinion she should reach; just on how they wanted her to 
report to them once shed reached her opinion based on the engineers findings. 
I wouldnt expect TSB to have shared with Mrs S and Mr S the guidance they gave the 
valuer about their lending criteria and reporting requirements, as its commercially sensitive 
information. In any event, Im not persuaded it would have affected Mrs S and Mr Ss 
decision to go ahead with the structural engineers report. There was no prospect of TSB 
lending based on the first valuation report as the surveyor advised further investigations 
were needed in relation to the damage shed seen. And she told Mrs S that she wouldnt 
value the property without a structural engineers report. 
In fact, the valuer put a value on the property in her second report as if the works had been 
completed, which led to some confusion. But I dont think its the figure put on the property 
thats key here. Its whether the valuer felt the work needed to be carried out before the 
property provided adequate security for TSBs loan. She thought it did. And I think TSB could 
reasonably rely on that advice in coming to their lending decision. 
I understand the surveyor told Mrs S and Mr S the issues shed identified were probably 
nothing. Based on previous experience they thought TSB might hold some money back if 
repairs were needed before they would lend the whole amount. But they said they wouldnt have gone ahead with the structural engineers report if theyd known TSB didnt offer 
mortgages with a retention. They think TSB should have told them that before they 
instructed the structural engineer. 
I dont think its reasonable for Mrs S and Mr S to have assumed TSB would behave in the 
same way as they or a previous lender had before in offering a retention mortgage. Lenders 
policies differ and can change over time. Im not aware if Mrs S and Mr S would have been 
able to go ahead in this case if TSB had agreed to lend subject to a retention. Even if they 
had, on balance, I dont think TSB did anything wrong, as Ill explain.
Unfortunately, the recording of the call between Mrs S and TSB about getting a 
structural engineers report isnt available. However, TSBs records show they spoke 
to Mrs S on 12 April 2021 about the need for a structural engineers report if they 
wanted to go ahead; she understood the costs would be borne by her and Mr S; and 
there was no guarantee TSB would lend even once they had the report. Ive no 
reason to doubt the accuracy of TSBs records. Even though TSBs policy regarding 
retentions wasnt discussed, I think Mrs S and Mr S ought to have understood that, 
even if they went ahead with the structural engineers report, it might not result in 
TSB agreeing to lend to them. 
I acknowledge Mrs S and Mr S say the surveyor gave them the impression only 
limited repairs were likely to be necessary. I wont hold TSB responsible for anything 
the surveyor told them. She was independent of TSB as Ive said. The engineer was 
engaged by Mrs S and Mr S. So, TSB arent responsible for their actions.
I wouldnt expect TSB to have come to a lending decision until the structural engineer 
had reported and the surveyor had had the opportunity of reporting to TSB again 
once shed seen the engineers report. I dont agree there was no chance of TSB 
lending before the engineer reported as Mrs S and Mr S have suggested. TSBs 
decision was based on the surveyors advice as to whether she felt the works 
identified by the engineer needed to be carried out before the property offered 
adequate security. Its possible she could have come to the view the works werent 
required beforehand. But she couldnt reach her view on that until the engineers 
report was available. So, I dont think TSB were in a position to tell Mrs S and Mr S 
their decision wouldnt change before the engineer had reported. 
Im not aware of any persuasive evidence that TSB had decided, before they reviewed their 
lending decision, that they wouldnt overturn it as Mrs S and Mr S suspect. Even if they 
hadnt properly considered the appeal, I wouldnt conclude the additional moving costs 
resulted from that, as it would be too speculative. It was Mrs S and Mr Ss choice to appeal 
the original decision. And theyve acknowledged they may have had to move into rented 
accommodation to save their sale in any event. 
I understand Mrs S and Mr S think, based on their discussions with the surveyor and 
engineer and the level of the damage in the property they wanted to buy, that it was 
unreasonable TSB declined to lend. I cant comment on the technical evidence. And TSB is 
entitled to come to a commercial decision about whether or not to lend on a property bearing 
in mind their lending criteria and risk appetite. I can only consider whether TSB came to their 
decision fairly and reasonably. 
Bearing everything in mind, Im satisfied TSB reasonably came to their lending decision 
based on the advice of independent property professionals. And they considered Mrs S and 
Mr Ss application again when they appealed. Im satisfied they gave fair consideration to 
Mrs S and Mr Ss application.Im sorry to hear Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with how TSB handled their concerns. I can 
understand they were going through a stressful time. We dont generally have the power to 
consider complaints about complaint handling. But, from what Ive seen TSB issued their 
response to Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint promptly and reasonably asked the surveyor to 
consider their concerns. 
I understand Mrs S and Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. And I dont 
underestimate the difficult time theyve had. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
TSB have treated them unfairly. And I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman