DRN-3442868
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In October 2018, Mr C made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. Mr C said 
that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced him to enter into the contract with 
P. Mr C said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
Mr C would receive £184 per quarter in Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments.
The benefits of the solar panels would allow Mr C to pay off the loan within three or 
four years.  
P would service check the system after the first year.
Mr C says that his electricity bills have increased since the system was installed. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it offered Mr C £200 
compensation due to how long it had taken to respond to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
He had not seen any of the workings from project solar.
He believes that he is not saving any money by having the system. 
When the salesman was explaining the ins and outs of the panels all he showed 
Mr C was a piece of paper where he had scribbled down the savings he would get 
over the quarter.
It wasn't until the salesperson was leaving that he handed Mr C a booklet explaining 
the system. The middle pages should have been filled in by the salesperson with the 
projected savings etc, but this was blank. 
Mr C thinks it is a joke for Shawbrook to pay him off with £200.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr C and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these , along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative 
of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Mr C has said he was shown figures indicating the benefits of the solar panels, albeit he was 
left a booklet which did not include those figures. Having said that, I can see that he did sign 
the quote  likely on the salespersons tablet or laptop. And Im aware that the usual process 
was for the quote to be emailed to the customer after the meeting. I can see that Mr Cs email address is shown on the quote and matches the one he has given us when making his 
complaint. So, I see no reason why he wouldnt have been emailed this. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence,  Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that the Consumer was told that the cost of the system was 
£8,350.00. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,350.00. The monthly payment was 
£87.19. The total amount of credit is £8,350.00 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £15,694.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Cs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,350.00, it would cost 
Mr C more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr C have said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most 
likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £139.26, which results in an average monthly income of £11.60. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £87.19. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £244.35 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr C the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £797.61. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £89.22. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £89.22, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefit he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr C wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as 
Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson 
went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr C was told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 15 the overall benefits that Mr C could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 15, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,092 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Cs meter reading and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,092 kWh per year over five year. This is exactly the amount estimated by P at 
the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
On Mr Cs point that he thought that S had said it would service check the system after the 
first year, Ive found nothing other than what hes said to support this. Having seen a number 
of complaints against S Ive not seen any others where a customer has been offered such a 
service. And Im not aware of such a check being necessary for a solar panel system. So, I 
dont think I can conclude that S offered to do this for Mr C. And even if that offer had been 
made, I think it is unlikely to have induced Mr C into buying the system. It appears the 
systems other benefits were the main selling point. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman