DRN-2433922
The complaint
Mr S says Gain Credit LLC - trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr S between      
March and April 2017. A summary of Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 16/03/2017 outstanding 6 £350.00 £148.40
2 15/04/2017 outstanding 6 £600.00 £384.40
Mr Ss complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Lending Stream had asked   
Mr S to provide that should have prompted Lending Stream to do more checks. So, the 
adjudicator couldnt say Lending Stream was wrong to have given the loans to Mr S.  
Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he 
was able to take out the second loan whilst he was still repaying loan 1 and this should have 
shown he was struggling financially. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked Mr S about his employment status and he confirmed he 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £2,350 and £2,375. Lending Stream 
also checked Mr Ss normal monthly living costs. Mr S declared these to be between £755 
and £1,098 a month. Lending Stream says it also searched Mr Ss credit file and it has 
provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or 
county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. So 
there didnt look like there was anything that ought to have caused Lending Stream any 
concern. 
Mr S has provided a copy of his credit report. Ive reviewed this carefully and whilst I can see 
that he had some outstanding unsecured loans these were taken out a couple of years prior 
to him borrowing the loans from Lending Stream. I can also see he had numerous other 
short-term loans but these were all taken out at the same time as his Lending Steam loans 
or afterwards so they wouldnt have shown up on any credit searches Lending Stream did. 
Mr S borrowed both loans over a one month period. So, he was very early on in his lending 
relationship with Lending Stream. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
Lending Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr S provided at the time 
which would have given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of 
Lending Stream to have relied on what Mr S gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before 
lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr S declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have 
been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Lending Stream was 
entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending 
Stream knew about Mr S, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the information 
Mr S gave it. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr S, hes put time and effort into his 
complaint. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and make no award against Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman