DRN-3214251
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd has declined its 
commercial property claim for goods stolen whilst in transit.
What happened
G trades in mobile phones. In April 2020 G went to deliver two phones to a client. G left the 
phones in the car whilst he went to locate the client a short distance away. Upon returning, G 
found that the vehicle had been broken into and the two mobile phones stolen. 
G reported the crime to the police and made a claim to Accredited under its commercial 
shop property policy. Accredited appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. The loss 
adjuster asked G to provide invoices for the two phones and evidence of damage to the 
vehicle. In June 2020 G produced invoices for the sale of the two phones and photos of the 
vehicle damage. One of the phones had a sale value of almost £14,000 and the other was 
being sold for just under £1,200. Given the high value of one of the phones, and the policy 
limit for claims under the goods in transit section of £7,500, Accredited asked G for more 
information. It wanted to know whether the more expensive phone had been for personal or 
business use, to see evidence showing the phones were for sale and the correct IMEI 
number (the one having been provided not being valid).
G was unhappy about being asked to provide further information but did produce invoices 
from when it purchased the phones. Unfortunately this led to more concerns for Accredited 
and it requested Gs director submit to a video interview. This took place in October 2020 
during which G confirmed the phones were due to be sold to a client and that the theft had 
taken place in a short space of time between G parking up and returning to the vehicle 
having located its client.
G also told Accredited that the more expensive phone had been purchased in Italy in 2011 
for 18,000 Euros in cash. G provided Accredited with a proforma invoice for its sale and said 
it hadnt been used prior to being sold. G also confirmed where itd purchased the cheaper 
phone from in February 2020. 
Accredited then obtained some more information, spoke to the client, and to the seller of the 
cheaper phone, and obtained a copy of the police crime report. The seller of the cheaper 
phone told Accredited that G had written up the sales invoice itself. 
In May 2021, Accredited wrote to G setting out its concerns. These were:
That the proforma invoice provided by G as evidence of the expensive phones purchase 
in 2011 was very similar to the purchase invoice provided for the cheaper phone (which 
the seller of the cheaper phone had told Accredited G itself had created);
With regard to the expensive phone, Accredited said the IMEI number on the sales 
invoice didnt match the phone and the phone it actually belonged to was shown as 
having been blocked multiple times over the years;
Also with regard to the expensive phone, Accredited queried why G had owned it since 
2011 but had never used or sold it nor had it blocked the phone following the theft;
Accredited said that, ultimately, there was no evidence that G had ever owned the 
expensive phone;
In relation to the cheaper phone Accredited queried why it hadnt been blocked after the 
theft, why G had written up the purchase order itself and why G had reported it as being 
silver but on the invoice it was cited as being gold;
Accredited raised concerns over the documents G had provided as proof itd purchased 
the phones namely that the purchase order for the cheaper phone and the proforma 
invoice for the expensive one were the same in layout, size and font colour and 
contained the same multiple typing errors. It also queried why the proforma invoice was 
in English given the phone was said to have been purchased in Italy;
Accredited said that the proforma invoice wasnt evidence of the sale as itd been 
supplied prior to the purchase. It said it thought G had created both documents itself. 
Accredited said that it wouldnt, at this point, accept liability at all for the expensive phone 
due to the concerns itd highlighted. It said it was reserving is position on liability on the 
cheaper phone until a suitable response was received in relation to its concerns.
 
G complained to Accredited as it was unhappy at the conclusions itd reached. G gave no 
further information to address Accrediteds concerns save to explain why the cheaper phone 
had been reported as being silver. 
Accredited said that G hadnt adequately addressed its concerns and that it believed G had 
created the invoices to support the claim. It highlighted the fraud condition in the policy terms 
and declined the claim. 
Unhappy with how itd been treated, G complained to this service. Our investigator looked 
into its complaint but didnt think Accredited had treated G unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way itd declined and handled the claim. 
G asked for its complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether Accredited has treated G fairly and reasonably by citing the 
policys fraud condition and declining the claim. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think it 
has. Ill explain why. 
G, as policyholder, has certain obligations under the policy terms and conditions which it 
must comply with. One of those is that it must provide Accredited with all the information and 
help it requests in respect of any claim made. I can see that Accrediteds loss adjuster made 
reasonable enquiries of G, when initially trying to validate the claim, about the circumstances 
in which the claim arose and the nature of what was stolen. And it was Gs responsibility to 
prove it owned the items that formed part of the claim. 
Unfortunately, the information G provided, particularly given the value of one of the phones, 
wasnt conclusive enough proof for Accredited that it owned the two phones it was claiming 
for. I can see Gs claim well exceeded the policy limit of £7,500 (this would be the maximum 
that Accredited would be liable for) for claims under the goods in transit section of the 
policy. So, I can see why Accredited sought confirmation that the items G was claiming for 
were actually owned by it. I dont find Accrediteds actions in this respect to be 
unreasonable.I can see that Accredited set out its concerns in full to G and gave it the opportunity to 
address them all before it made a final decision on liability. I think this was fair in the 
circumstances. And I can see that Accredited had numerous concerns that it raised with G, 
upon which it ultimately relied to decline the claim. Principally Accredited had concerns 
about the validity of the sales documents (which I have referred to above). Having reviewed 
the documents myself I dont find Accrediteds concerns to be unreasonable and Im satisfied 
it gave G enough opportunity to address them. 
I dont find it unreasonable for example, for Accredited to have expected the invoice for the 
expensive phone to have been in Italian (given it was purchased in Italy). And I can see why 
the same typing errors, layout and font across the two invoices for two separate sales, many 
years apart, caused Accredited to question their authenticity, ultimately leading to it citing 
(albeit not relying on) the policys fraud condition. That is particularly the case given that the 
seller of the cheaper phone confirmed that it was G that created the sales invoice for the 
purchase. And I cant ignore that the IMEI number for the expensive phone as provided on 
the sales document is incorrect and that G provided no explanation at all as to why. 
Similarly, Accrediteds expectation that G wouldve immediately taken steps after the theft to 
have both phones blocked is a reasonable one. 
In the absence of any credible explanation for the concerns it raised, I think the conclusion 
Accredited reached about liability for Gs claim was fair; Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and Im not going to ask it to do any more.
I note that G was unhappy too about the service it received from Accredited but I cant agree 
it was unreasonable. I appreciate it took over a year for Accredited to communicate its 
decision about liability but I can see from the file that it was constantly investigating the claim 
in an effort to establish its validity, and thats not unreasonable; insurers must be permitted 
time to establish liability. How long this takes depends on the issues associated with a claim 
and some claims are more complex and protracted than others. But I cant see any evidence 
of poor service here, or un-necessary delay, from Accredited. It gave G every opportunity to 
provide the information it needed to satisfy itself the claim was genuine. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman