DRN-3917061
The complaint
Mrs S complains Starling Bank Limited wont refund her for two card payments.
What happened
Mrs S received a message from Starling about a payment debiting her account. Mrs S didnt 
recognise the payment and then saw an earlier payment to the same retailer. Mrs S 
contacted Starling and told it she hadnt authorised the payments.
Starling investigated the payments and said it couldnt find any evidence of fraud. Starling 
said Mrs S had possession of her device  her mobile phone  and card, hadnt clicked on 
any suspicious links and because of this it wouldnt refund the payments.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. The investigator said 
although the payments look out of place, they were authorised using Mrs S device.
The investigator couldnt see how someone else had access to Mrs S device, so thought it 
was more likely Mrs S had authorised the payments.
The investigator thought the other alternative was Mrs S had given someone else access to 
her device, to authorise the payments. The investigator explained if that had happened, it 
was still reasonable for Starling to hold her liable.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule its fair for Starling to hold Mrs S liable for payments where the technical 
evidence suggests she authorised them.
Ive looked at the evidence Starling has sent in and can see the two payments needed 
further authorisation before they could be completed. 
The first payment needed Mrs S to enter a one time passcode, sent to her phone. The 
second payment needed to be authorised using Mrs S banking application, on her phone.
Ive seen an example of the message Starling sends with the one time passcode. I think it 
would have been clear what payment was being authorised, how much, who to, and theres 
a warning not to share the code.
And Ive seen an example prompt in the banking application, for authorising a payment. 
Again, I think it would have been clear what payment was being authorised.
Starlings also shown there were no other devices added to Mrs S account, the same 
phones been registered since 2020. Im satisfied Mrs S phone received the one time 
passcode and was used to authorise the payment within the banking application.
I cant see how anyone other than Mrs S was able to authorise the two payments. Mrs S has 
explained to Starling no one else had access to her phone, and she hadnt received any 
suspicious texts or calls, or clicked on any links.
Since both payments needed further authorisation, which Im satisfied only Mrs S could do, I 
think its more likely Mrs S authorised these payments.
The payments do seem out of character with Mrs S usual spending. And I can see there 
were other attempts to make payments before the first successful payment.
But I can also see Starling messaged Mrs S about these failed payments, but it doesnt 
seem Mrs S did anything about these messages. It was only after the second payment, and 
message, that Mrs S contacted Starling.
I dont think the failed payments mean Starling should have done more to verify Mrs S 
wanted to make the successful payments. What Starling did, sending a one time passcode 
and asking for authorisation in the banking application, was, I think, enough to verify Mrs S 
wanted to make these payments.
Whilst I understand a significant amount of money was paid out from Mrs S account, I think 
its more likely than not Mrs S authorised these payments. And, because I think Mrs S 
authorised the payments, its fair for Starling to hold her liable and not refund the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman