DRN-3070221
The complaint
Miss S complains that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Norwich & Peterborough 
wouldnt let her take a new interest rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Miss S took out a mortgage with Norwich & Peterborough Building Society (N&P) some 
years ago. In the meantime, N&P merged with Yorkshire Building Society (YBS).
This means that N&P is no longer a separate entity in its own right. Its now a trading style of 
YBS. YBS is now the legal owner of Miss Ss mortgage and the firm responsible for this 
complaint.
After the merger, YBS kept N&P customers separate in a group of mortgages  a book  
maintained separately from customers taken on through YBS.
Customers who were taken on through YBS were on YBSs terms and conditions and 
managed through YBSs systems. But customers taken on through N&P continued on N&Ps 
terms and conditions, although their lender was now YBS.
After a while, YBS decided to stop offering new interest rates to customers on the N&P book. 
As their existing rates came to an end, it offered N&P customers the chance to re-mortgage 
to YBS, taking out a new mortgage on YBS terms  or, if they preferred, staying with N&P 
but on the standard variable rate (SVR).
Miss S was in this position in 2019. Her previous interest rate ended in October 2019, and 
she moved on to the N&P SVR. 
Miss S complains, firstly, that YBS didnt give her enough notice about her interest rate 
ending. She says it only wrote to her two weeks before the rate ended, which didnt give her 
enough notice to apply for a new rate in time. And secondly she complains that when she did 
apply for a new rate it was refused, leaving her stuck on the SVR.
YBS said that it wasnt required to notify customers of the ending of their rate within a 
particular timescale  and in any case Miss S had been told when her rate would be ending 
some time before. But it offered £100 compensation because Miss S had been given 
conflicting information about whether she ought to have been notified.
And YBS said Miss S didnt meet the criteria for moving from N&P to YBS and taking a new 
rate  because it didnt think she was using the property as her primary residence.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thinking on this complaint. I said:
YBS said Miss S wasnt eligible for a new interest rate, because it didnt think she was using 
the property as her main residence and it thought she might be letting the property out. That 
meant that, under its lending criteria, it wouldnt give her a new rate.
This is a residential mortgage, and its a condition of the mortgage that Miss S lives in the 
property as her main residence.
Miss S had consent to let her property, but this came to an end in April 2019 when she 
notified YBS that the tenant had left. At that point, YBS removed the 1% premium it had 
added to the interest rate to reflect the additional risk associated with the property being let.
YBS carried out its standard enquiries when Miss S applied for a new rate. It found that she 
wasnt on the electoral roll at the address of the N&P mortgage. And she had told another 
arm of YBS that she was living in a property which had a residential mortgage with that arm. 
But she had told YBS as part of this application that she was living with her parents. 
Miss S told our investigator that she was living in the property during the week as it was 
close to her place of work, but living in another property at the weekends.
Our investigator passed this on to YBS. It said that it had found this property advertised for 
rent in May 2019  after Miss S had told it the property was no longer being let. The website 
showed that it had been removed from advertisement and marked as rented out in June 
2019.
Miss S then told our investigator that she was due to rent the property out in June 2019, but 
was unable to do so because it had flooded. She gave us evidence in the form of photos and 
correspondence with her insurance company to show the extent of the flood damage.
Ive considered all the evidence provided by both Miss S and YBS.
I think its likely Miss S wasnt in fact renting out this property in October 2019, because of 
the flood damage.
However, I also think that YBS had reasonable concerns about whether this was, or was 
intended to be, her main residence.
At the same time as the application for a new rate on this mortgage, she told YBSs other 
arm that she was living in the property subject to that other mortgage (and thats the address 
shes given us for correspondence too). And in this application, she told YBS she was living 
at her parents address. She was not on the electoral roll at this address, and it had been 
advertised for rent a few months earlier  after she told YBS it was no longer let.
And Miss S told our investigator that the flood had stopped her letting the property out  not 
that the flood had stopped her living in the property.
Taking all that into account, I think it was fair and reasonable for YBS to conclude that 
Miss S didnt meet its criteria for a new interest rate  and fair and reasonable for it to refuse 
her application. I dont therefore intend to uphold this part of her complaint.
Miss S also complained that YBS didnt notify her in good time that her rate would end in 
October 2019. Miss Ss product transfer offer, issued in 2016, explained that her fixed rate 
would come to an end in October 2019. And in May 2019, YBS wrote to Miss S answering a 
question about a change in her monthly payments. In that letter it reminded her that her 
interest rate came to an end in October 2019. And it explained that she could no longer take 
a new rate with N&P, but could ask to move to YBS.YBS didnt write to Miss S to tell her that her monthly payments would be changing until two 
weeks before the rate ended. The mortgage regulations require it to give reasonable notice 
of a change in payments, but dont create a specific obligation to notify a customer of the 
end of the rate.
In this case, I dont think YBS acted unfairly. It had made clear to Miss S both in 2016 and in 
May 2019 that her rate ended in October 2019. Its the borrowers responsibility to apply for 
a new rate if they want one  including making sure they do so at the appropriate time. In 
any case, given my findings that it wasnt unfair to refuse the rate Miss S did apply for, I dont 
think it would have made any difference had she applied sooner  the outcome would have 
been the same. She would still have been refused a rate because YBS reasonably thought 
she didnt meet its criteria.
The responses to my provisional decision
YBS accepted my provisional decision. But Miss S didnt. She said she had been told she 
would be given three months notice of her rate ending  which didnt happen. And she said 
she had not seen any evidence that it was a term of the mortgage that the property be used 
as her main residence, and she didnt think this should be a barrier to a new rate as an 
existing borrower.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied YBS gave Miss S fair and reasonable notice that her rate was ending  it told 
her in 2016, and again in May 2019, that it ended in October 2019. 
This is a residential mortgage  which means that it is intended that the borrower live in the 
property. One of the terms in the terms and conditions says that the borrower should not 
create any lease or licence without the lenders consent.
Miss S had given YBS different addresses that she said she was living at. She told us that 
she was not living in this property and would have been renting it out at the time of the 
application but for the flood. She no longer had YBSs consent to rent it out, but had 
advertised it for rent.
YBS is entitled to have criteria for new interest rates. In all the circumstances, I think YBS 
acted fairly in concluding that Miss S didnt meet its criteria for a new interest rate, and I 
remain of the view that I cannot fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman