DRN-4342004
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a credit card Lendable Ltd (trading as Zable) provided to him. 
He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided to him as his existing indebtedness 
meant that it was unaffordable.
Background
Zable provided Mr M with a credit card with an initial limit of £800 in November 2022. Mr M 
wasnt provided with any credit limit increases. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Zable had told us. And he thought Zable 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly in relation to providing the credit card. 
So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Zable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Zable 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Zable says it agreed to Mr Ms application after it obtained information on him income and 
carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr M would be able 
to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. On the other hand Mr M says 
that he was already struggling and shouldnt have been provided with this credit card.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr M was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Zable was required to understand whether a credit limit of £800 
could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit of 
£800 required relatively small monthly payments (in comparison to Mr Ms income) in order 
to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information Zable obtained from Mr M about his 
income and that was on the credit search carried out. And this information doesnt indicate to 
me that Zable ought to have realised that Mr M didnt have the funds to make the low 
monthly payment that would be required for this credit card. Mr M might have had a default 
on his credit file. But this wasnt recent. And I dont think that this was enough to mean that 
Zable ought to have automatically declined Mr Ms application.
I appreciate that Mr M says that his circumstances were worse than this, he was struggling 
and had applied for other credit in the lead up to this application. But Zable wont have 
known this as the credit search didnt show these applications and it does take a few weeks 
for records to update. Mr M says that its not fair for him as a customer as he isnt 
responsible for lenders reporting correctly. 
I accept that Mr M might not be responsible for the length of time it takes for records to 
update. But nonetheless he was aware that hed applied for the credit hes referred to. So he 
ought to have been aware of the impact the payments to those accounts might have on his 
ability to afford the payments to his Zable credit card. In any event, whats most important 
here is that Zable could only make a decision based on the information it had at the time. 
And as the credit searches carried out didnt show the applications Mr M has referred to and 
the rest of the information obtained showed that Mr M was likely to be able to make the low 
monthly payments he could have to make to this card at the time the lending decision was 
made, I dont think that Zable needed to do anything more. 
Ive also seen that Mr M has referred to the interest rate and cash withdrawal fees for his 
card being high. However, Ive looked at Mr Ms credit agreement. The interest rate of 34.9% 
APR is clearly set out on it. Furthermore, the related costs section of the agreement states 
that a fee of 3% on the amount of a cash advance, subject to a minimum of £3, would be 
applied to any cash advance. 
All of this information was also included in the pre-contractual documentation Mr M was 
encouraged to read before the agreement was entered into. So while Mr M may be unhappy 
with the interest and charges as he was notified of them before he entered into his 
agreement and used his card, I dont think that Zable applied any of this to his account 
unfairly.  
So overall while I can understand Mr Ms sentiments, I dont think that Zable treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing Mr M with him his credit card. And Im not upholding  
Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman