DRN-2785785
The complaint
Mr Ds complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) didnt provide him with the 
information he needed about his loan when he called them  which meant that he couldnt 
reduce the outstanding balance when he wanted to.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr D took out a personal loan with Clydesdale over four years.
In January 2021, Mr D was in a position to pay a lump sum towards his outstanding balance.  
He used Clydesdales online chat facility to contact them to find out what impact doing this 
would have on his monthly repayments, the remaining term and the interest hed have to 
pay.  
The agent he was chatting to told him they couldnt deal with his questions and that hed 
need to speak to Clydesdales loans department.
Mr D says it took him an hour to get through to the loans department.  And when he did, the 
agent he spoke to couldnt answer his questions.  She told Mr D there was a team which 
could answer them.  She offered to contact that team for Mr D and call him when she had 
answers to his questions.  
Mr D hadnt heard anything four days later.  So he complained to Clydesdale.  He said he 
thought the loans department should be able to answer questions about a loan immediately.  
And he was concerned that a delay in Clydesdale looking into the matter would cost him 
money, because his loan wouldnt be adjusted as quickly as he wanted.
Before he got an answer to his complaint, Mr D contacted Clydesdale again.  The agent he 
spoke to this time told him he should pay the lump sum to his loan account.  Clydesdale 
would then ask him if he wanted to use the payment to shorten the term or reduce his 
monthly payments.
Mr D was reluctant to do this, as he felt he should know what each option would mean 
before he made the payment.  So the agent said hed try and find out and would call Mr D 
when hed done that.  The agent called Mr D the following day with illustrations of each 
option and explained how Mr D could make payment.  Mr D asked the agent to call him the 
next day, which the agent did. Mr D made the payment during this call.
About a week later, Clydesdale responded to Mr Ds complaint.  They apologised for the wait 
times when he called and explained that, in the current climate, they were having to adapt 
while taking more calls than usual.  And they apologised for the first agent not calling Mr D 
as shed promised.  They said theyd arranged to credit Mr Ds account with £40 by way of 
apology.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with that outcome and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered the matter and agreed Clydesdale hadnt dealt with the matter as they should.  
But he thought the £40 compensation theyd offered was reasonable for the amount of 
inconvenience theyd caused Mr D.  So he didnt think Clydesdale needed to do any more to 
resolve the complaint.
In response to the investigators view, Mr D said Clydesdale hadnt paid him anything.  And 
he didnt feel that amount reflected what hed had to do to put things right.  
Because Mr D didnt accept the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.  But I dont think Clydesdale need to offer 
Mr D anything more than they already have to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr D was frustrated by his experience.  But that doesnt necessarily mean that 
Clydesdale did anything wrong.  And its only fair for me to say they should pay Mr D 
compensation if I think they did.
Mr Ds told us he thinks the first agent he spoke to shouldve been able to give him the 
information he wanted immediately.  I dont agree.  He put different scenarios to the agent.  
They would have required various calculations to be made on a hypothetical basis.  Its not 
reasonable for me to say that Clydesdale should have systems in place that allow every 
agent answering telephone enquiries to do those calculations.
So I think the first agents response  to take the details of what Mr D wanted and pass it 
onto a team whod be able to answer his questions  was reasonable.  But I dont think it 
was reasonable not to follow that up.  It left Mr D not knowing what was happening and 
having to follow up himself.  
Clydesdale have agreed that they shouldve provided a better experience for Mr D.  They 
said theyd pay him £40 compensation for this.
Ive thought about whether this sum is enough to reflect the inconvenience Mr D was put to.  
I dont think its fair to say Clydesdale should compensate him for a long wait before 
speaking to an agent.  While it was no doubt inconvenient, its not Clydesdales fault the 
impact of the pandemic on their customers has increased their call volumes.
So Im only taking into account the agents failure to call Mr D as promised.  And I think £40 
is enough to compensate for this one failing.  I know Mr D thinks the delay meant he paid 
more interest than he would have done otherwise.  Thats a legitimate concern.  But 
Clydesdale have confirmed that for the time in question, the difference was less than £5.00.  
So Im satisfied that this is covered by what Clydesdale offered  with the balance reflecting 
the inconvenience Mr D suffered.
While Im satisfied £40 is the right amount of compensation, I dont think it should be credited 
to Mr Ds account  as Clydesdale said theyd do.  Following Mr Ds comment that hed not 
been paid anything I checked the position with Clydesdale, who confirmed no payment had 
been made.
It should be up to Mr D whether he uses the compensation to reduce his borrowing, or for 
something else.  So Im deciding Clydesdale should pay the £40 to Mr D so he can make 
that choice.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc 
and directing them to pay Mr D the £40 compensation theyve previously offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman