DRN-4196969
The complaint
Ms G complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (Inter Partner) handling of her claim 
under the breakdown cover provided by her car insurance policy.   
What happened
Ms Gs car was damaged after hitting an object on the motorway. Ms G called Inter Partner 
for assistance and explained her car had broken down and needed to be recovered. The call 
handler at Inter Partner explained to Ms G that her car would need to be recovered to a 
garage as it wouldnt be possible to carry out the necessary repairs at the roadside. The call 
handler explained Ms G could call them back once shed decided which garage her car 
should be taken to. Ms G says the police then arrived and towed her car to a service station. 
Inter Partner then arranged to recover Ms Gs car the following day from the service station, 
but the recovery driver noticed further damage had been caused overnight while the car was 
unattended. Inter Partner explained they werent able to recover the car until Ms G attended 
to sign a road condition report. Ms G attended and signed the report, and her car was 
recovered to a garage. Ms G complained to Inter Partner that, on the day of the incident, 
shed been left for over an hour in a dangerous location with no assistance provided by 
them, and they wouldnt then recover her car until she was present. Inter Partner responded 
and accepted there had been delay in recovering Ms Gs car and offered £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms G. She agreed Inter Partner had delayed in 
recovering Ms Gs car and also given incorrect information. She recommended Inter Partner 
pay £250 compensation. Inter Partner agreed but Ms G disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Ms G will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.   
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms G. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. 
The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. Inter Partner accept they got things 
wrong by taking too long to recover Ms Gs car. The only issue I have to decide is whether 
their offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Inter Partner should compensate Ms G for the worry and upset caused. 
To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive looked at 
the errors by Inter Partner and the impact it has had. 
Ive listened to a call between Ms G and Inter Partner as well as call notes, and it appears, 
during Ms Gs first call, Inter Partner wouldnt initially provide a recovery service without a 
named garage to take Ms Gs car to. Ms G calls Inter Partner again to say she hasnt 
managed to find a garage and its clear shes very distressed and upset. By this point Ms Gs 
car has already been moved to a service station. The call handler explains they can recover 
her car to a garage. Ms G refers to the previous call during which she was given conflicting 
information and feels it was left to her to find a garage. There has been an error here as the 
terms and conditions of Ms Gs policy doesnt require her to nominate a garage. Instead, it 
says Inter Partner will choose whether to take Ms G and her car to her original destination or 
home, or theyll arrange for Ms Gs car to be taken to a suitable repairer.
Ms G describes the circumstances she was left in following the incident. She was in the 
inside lane which was flowing with traffic and lorries were having to manoeuvre around her 
car. The call handler explains their usual arrival time for recovery is one and a half hours, but 
if a customer is in a dangerous location  such as a motorway  then they aim to arrive 
sooner and treat it as a priority. That didnt happen here, so I acknowledge why Ms G was 
left very upset. Its clear Ms G was very worried at the time her car broke down. She called 
Inter Partner who didnt provide the recovery assistance service she was entitled to under 
her policy and, given where her car was located, I understand why Ms G found this very 
upsetting. 
I can see Ms G is also unhappy about having to attend at the service station the following 
day to enable the recovery driver to collect her car. I acknowledge this will have been 
inconvenient for Ms G, but this was down to the fact that additional damage had been 
identified to Ms Gs car. So the recovery driver required Ms G to sign a report on the cars 
condition when being collected. I dont think this is unreasonable as it helps to avoid disputes 
which might later arise around who is responsible for the damage caused. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think the £150 offered by Inter Partner is fair here. I say 
this because Ms G was left very worried and upset when Inter Partner didnt initially provide 
recovery assistance  particularly so given Ms Gs location at the time. While there has been 
further damage caused while Ms Gs car was parked overnight at the service station, I dont 
think its unreasonable for Ms G to believe this further damage would likely not have 
happened had Inter Partner  in line with the terms and conditions - recovered her car to her 
home or a suitable repairer. So, taking into account the impact on Ms G, I think Inter Partner 
should pay Ms G £250 compensation.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Inter Partner have made an error in their handling of Ms Gs claim for 
recovery and also provided conflicting information. So, in addition to the £150 already 
offered, they should increase their offer by £100 and pay Ms G a total amount of 
compensation of £250. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay Ms G 
compensation of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman