DRN-3870159
The complaint
A company, which I will call S, complains about the decision of Society of Lloyds to decline 
its business interruption insurance claim made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Various parties have been involved in the correspondence on this complaint, however for the 
sake of simplicity I have just referred to S and Society of Lloyds. My references to Society of 
Lloyds include both their underwriters and agents. I also note that S has brought a complaint 
about the sale of its insurance policy, but this is being considered separately. 
S operates as a holiday accommodation business and held a commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by Society of Lloyds. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, S contacted 
Society of Lloyds to claim for loss of income. Society of Lloyds declined the claim, saying 
that the policy only provided relevant cover where the interruption to business was as a 
result of damage and that COVID-19 had not caused such damage to Ss property. 
S complained about this decision, referring the complaint to the Ombudsman Service when 
Society of Lloyds did not alter its stance. It said that the policy provided cover for loss and 
damage, and that it had suffered a loss. And that the policy included reference to cover for 
notifiable diseases, which should effectively be interpreted as meaning cover for claims 
relating this should be included.
Our Investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld though. He thought the policy 
documents were clear that the policy only provided cover, as far as is relevant, for loss 
caused by an interruption to business resulting from damage. And that this was not the 
reason Ss business had been interrupted. 
S remained unsatisfied, so its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on S, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
Whilst I note Ss comments that the policy says cover is provided for loss or damage, this 
wording goes onto say in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in or 
endorsed in this policy. And I dont consider this first part of the wording can reasonably be 
interpreted as providing cover for all loss or damage, regardless of its nature or cause. 
The policy schedule sets out that the cover provided under the business interruption section 
of the policy is in relation to rent receivable. And the policy wording goes onto say:
What is covered
For each item in the schedule, we will pay you for any interruption or interference 
with the business resulting from damage to property used by you at the premises for 
the purpose of the business occurring during the period of insurance provided that 
damage is not excluded under section 1.
The term damage is defined in the policy as:
Physical accidental loss of or destruction of or damage to the property insured.
I consider this to be clear about what is required in order for there to be a valid claim. As 
COVID-19, nor the pandemic more generally, did not cause physical accidental loss of or 
destruction of or damage to Ss insured property, it follows that I consider Society of Lloyds 
acted appropriately when declining the claim.
I do note that the policy does include a definition for notifiable disease, and that reference 
to this term is made where the policy sets out certain indemnity periods. A clause setting out 
that claims relating to notifiable disease are included within the cover has not been 
included though. 
So, whilst I appreciate including both a definition of and reference to this term seems 
unnecessary, I am unable to agree that a reasonable person with the background knowledge 
of S would have considered, at the time the policy was sold, that these references meant 
cover was provided for claims relating to notifiable disease. I do not consider cover for 
claims relating to notifiable disease was included in Ss policy. As noted above, S has also 
raised a separate complaint about the sale of this policy, so I will not comment further on this 
aspect here. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Society of Lloyds should have met Ss claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for S and its director, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman