DRN-1929164
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc gave him conflicting and confusing information about 
his credit card after potentially fraudulent activity was identified on his account.
What happened
In June 2019 Santander's security systems identified potentially fraudulent payments on Mr 
H's credit card. Santander suggested that it had blocked his account as a security measure. 
Mr H took this to mean that he wouldn't be able to use the card, whereas in fact the 
payments had been stopped for further checks to be carried out. He was therefore 
concerned when he found out that he could, after all, continue to use the card.
In the course of trying to find out what had happened, and why, Mr H was given a range of 
telephone numbers to call. On more than one occasion, he was given the wrong number. 
When he did call, advisers were unable to help  and, when they called him, were 
unprepared.
Santander reviewed what had happened and accepted that its service hadn't been very 
good. It made an offer of compensation of £125 and apologised for what had happened. The 
manager he dealt with also agreed that some of the template letters he'd received could 
have been better written.
Mr H didn't feel that Santander had enough to put things right and referred the matter to this 
service. Our investigator considered it but thought that the bank's offer of compensation was 
fair; he didn't recommend that Santander increase it. Mr H didn't accept the investigator's 
view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same view as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to resolve certain complaints with minimum 
formality. I have therefore looked at the entirety of Mr H's complaint and considered, 
amongst other things, whether the bank's offer of £125 was fair compensation for what 
happened. In my view it was. 
I've listened to the phone calls that Mr H had with Santander, as well as reading its 
correspondence with him. I agree there were some failings, despite the bank's efforts to 
help. But I note too that Santander accepted that was the case and offered compensation. 
Mr H has suffered no actual loss here, and I agree that £125 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience to which he's been put. I won't therefore ask Santander to increase it.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr 
H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman