DRN-4105100
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr N has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In January 2023, Mr N was on holiday. Unfortunately, while he was away, his bag, 
containing cash, bank cards, mobile phones, his passport and other personal possessions, 
was stolen. Mr N was able to file a police report for some of his lost items. However, Mr Ns 
airline told him that he wouldnt be able to fly without an emergency travel document, so Mr 
N contacted UKIs assistance team from the airport police station to make a claim.
UKI accepted Mr Ns claim. But there were some issues with how it handled it. Firstly, UKI 
had booked Mr N a hotel for the evening following the theft, but due to Mr Ns lack of mobile 
phone or computer access, it wasnt able to confirm this with him. So Mr N says he had to 
sleep on a bench in the airport. When UKI booked Mr N a hotel for the next day, it provided 
him with the details of another hotel on the same street, so Mr N went to the wrong hotel. 
UKI agreed to advance Mr N cash to pay for emergency travel documentation (and did so). 
But it wrongly told Mr N that itd booked train tickets for him to travel to the British Consulate 
to pick-up the documents, when in fact, it hadnt made such a booking.
Mr N asked UKI to advance him cash to replace money which had been stolen along with his 
bag. But UKI declined to do so. Thats because cash hadnt been listed as a stolen item on 
the police report. UKI told Mr N that a cash advance for stolen money could be considered if 
Mr N provided a police report which stated the amount which had been stolen, along with 
proof of ownership of the money. Mr N was also unhappy that UKI hadnt paid for all of his 
meals. He felt the service from the assistance team had been poor. And he said the situation 
had had an impact on his health, as hed suffered from worrying symptoms while he was 
away.
Ultimately, UKI covered Mr Ns accommodation costs abroad until hed arranged the 
emergency travel document and was able to return to the UK. While he was away, Mr N was 
able to obtain a new police report which did include the stolen cash. Following his return to 
the UK, UKI settled Mr Ns claim in line with the policy terms and conditions, including an 
amount for the stolen cash.
UKI went on to look into Mr Ns concerns. It maintained that the policy didnt cover a 
policyholders meals, so it felt it had been fair for the assistance team to decline to cover 
such costs. And it concluded that it had been reasonable for the assistance team not to 
advance Mr N cash - other than for the emergency travel document - in the absence of proof 
of loss or ownership. UKI did accept though, that, at times, its assistance teams service had 
fallen short of its standards. So it paid Mr N £100 compensation.
Mr N remained unhappy with the way UKI had handled his claim and so he asked us to look 
into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had handled Mr Ns claim fairly. She felt that itd been 
reasonable for UKI to turn down Mr Ns claim for food. And that it had been fair for UKI to 
decline to arrange a cash advance in the absence of evidence that the cash had been 
stolen. But she felt that failures by the assistance team in terms of booking the hotels; 
providing Mr N with unclear information and failing to book transport when it said it would, 
had added to Mr Ns distress and inconvenience during an already difficult situation. So she 
recommended that UKI should pay Mr N an additional £250 compensation.
UKI accepted our investigators recommendations.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators findings and so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, I think that the fair outcome to this 
complaint is for UKI to pay him an additional amount of £250 compensation and Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ns policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether UKI treated 
Mr N fairly.
It's clear that Mr N was in a very difficult situation. His bag had been stolen, which contained 
his means of communication; his identification; his bank cards and money; along with other 
personal effects. I dont doubt how upsetting and stressful this was for Mr N, as Im aware he 
was reliant on being able to use the polices and hotels phones and computer systems to 
get in touch with UKI. Given the circumstances in which Mr N found himself, it seems to me 
that he would always have understandably suffered a degree of trouble, upset and 
inconvenience. I dont think I could fairly or reasonably hold UKI responsible for the loss of 
Mr Ns bag, the inconvenience and stress of his things being stolen, or for the fact that its 
assistance team had few ways to get in touch with Mr N while he was abroad. 
Mr N feels that UKI shouldve paid for his food while he was abroad and also that it shouldve 
provided him with a cash advance to reflect the fact his money had been stolen. So Ive 
carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, which form the basis of the contract 
between Mr N and UKI, to assess what cover UKI provided under sections J  personal 
money and K  Lost Passport or Driving Licence.
Section J says that UKI will cover a policyholders personal money, up to the policy limit, if 
its lost or stolen while a policyholder is on their trip. It also states that a cash advance can 
be arranged if a policyholder cant obtain funds locally. However, section J also says that a 
policyholder needs to provide a police report for the loss of money and that a policyholder 
must provide proof of ownership and value of the money. 
In this case, Mr N accepts that when he first went to the police and obtained a police report, 
he didnt tell the police about the stolen money. This means that the theft of the cash wasnt 
included on the original police report which was sent to UKI. As such, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to rely on its policy terms to decline to arrange a cash advance for Mr 
N until hed provided it with an updated police report and substantiated this part of his claim. 
I appreciate Mr N was able to later report the loss of the money to the police and obtain an 
updated report, which was sent to UKI. However, this report was sent to UKI after Mr N had 
already returned home. Accordingly, it seems this part of the claim wasnt substantiated 
while Mr N remained abroad and so, UKI wasnt in a position to arrange a cash advance for 
him. However, once UKI had received the police report (and proof of ownership and value), I 
can see that it settled Mr Js claim for stolen money. This is in line with the policy terms.
Section K says that UKI will pay for a policyholders reasonable travel, accommodation and 
administration costs that they have to pay to obtain an emergency travel document, if their 
passport is lost or stolen  along with the cost of the emergency document. UKI hasnt 
chosen to include cover for a policyholders food under this section of the policy and so I 
wouldnt reasonably expect UKI to have offered to pay for Mr Ns meals. I understand that it 
did pay for at least some breakfasts at the hotels it booked for Mr N, which was outside of 
the policy terms. Im satisfied though that UKI did advance cash to pay for Mr Ns emergency 
travel document and it appears that it covered his travel and accommodation costs in 
obtaining the emergency document. So I dont think UKI acted unfairly when it settled this 
part of the claim either. 
Nonetheless, its clear that UKI didnt handle Mr Ns claim as well as it couldve done. Mr N 
was left without a hotel on the first evening and even when a hotel was booked for him, he 
was given details of the wrong hotel. The assistance team told Mr N that itd booked train 
tickets for him to allow him to travel to collect the emergency document when it hadnt done 
so. It appears that Mr N was originally booked into a hotel without a phone in his room, 
despite this being something he needed in order to communicate with UKI, given his phones 
had been stolen. And I can also see that Mr N was concerned as to whether the booked 
hotels had internet access either, which would again limit his ability to communicate with 
UKI. I dont doubt that all of these issues caused Mr N unnecessary additional trouble and 
upset at an already difficult time for him. Indeed, I can see that Mr N also told UKI about 
worrying symptoms he was experiencing while he was away. So I appreciate that the 
frustration and concern he was caused as a result of the service errors likely caused Mr N 
extra worry. 
This means I agree with our investigator that the £100 compensation UKI has already paid 
Mr N isnt enough to reflect the impact I think its actions had on him. In my view, the 
additional £250 compensation UKI has now agreed to pay Mr N (equal to total compensation 
of £350) is a fair and reasonable award to reflect the additional trouble and upset I think its 
service failings are likely to have caused Mr N, while he was already dealing with an 
upsetting and stressful situation. So I find that the fair way to resolve this complaint is for UKI 
to now pay Mr N total compensation of £350, less the £100 its already paid him  meaning it 
must pay an additional amount of £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I think UKI has now made a fair 
offer to settle Mr Ns complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr N compensation of £250, in addition to the £100 its 
already paid him. This is equal to total compensation of £350. If UKI hasnt yet paid Mr N the 
£100 it initially offered him, it must now do so, along with the additional amount of £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman