DRN-3643095
Complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss M with a loan for £1,500.00 in June 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 181.0% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£3,112.02, including interest of £1,612.02, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of 
just under £175. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ms complaint and she thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss M with her loan. So she thought that Miss Ms complaint 
should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicator so the case was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss M had had three 
county court judgements against her. While there has been some suggestion all of them 
were over 12 months old, the credit search information provided suggests that the third of 
them had a court date of December 2018, which was only 6 months prior to this application.
Furthermore, the bank statement Everyday Loans obtained showed that Miss M had 
returned direct debits. Miss M might not have been overdrawn but thats because her bank 
wasnt prepared to provide her with an overdraft not because her finances were in great 
shape. Indeed, she was borrowing from friends and family to ensure that she didnt incur 
further returned direct debits. 
Im also mindful that all of this took place in the context of Miss M having a low income. And 
all of this leaves me persuaded by what Miss M has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Miss Ms previous credit difficulties 
reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types 
of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments 
from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Miss Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ms existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss M. As 
Everyday Loans provided Miss M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss M ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss M lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss M by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss M made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£1,500.00 originally lent. If Miss M has already repaid more than £1,500.00 then 
Everyday Loans should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Miss M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments, if there are any, 
from the date they were made by Miss M to the date of settlement;
if, as seems likely, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance 
remains, Everyday Loans should remove all adverse information it recorded on     
Miss Ms credit file as a result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman