DRN-2651165
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, credited a payment he 
made by cheque to the wrong credit card account, meaning he incurred interest incorrectly 
on the outstanding balance. 
What happened
Mr M had two credit card accounts with Barclaycard, which Ill refer to as card A and card B.
In November 2016 Mr M sent two cheques to Barclaycard, one for £15,719 and the other 
£9,010. The cheques were dated 10 November 2016.
At that time card A had a credit limit of £16,000 and an outstanding balance of around 
£16,060, marginally exceeding this credit limit. Card B had a credit limit of £9,000 and an 
outstanding balance of roughly £9,057  again marginally exceeding the credit limit.
Mr M has said that the two cheques sent were to pay off the outstanding balance on both 
accounts. 
Both cheques were credited to the account for card B. These payments, plus the minimum 
monthly repayment made by direct debit, took the balance of that account to just over 
£15,770 in credit. A debt remained on card A.
Mr M continued to make monthly repayments to card A by direct debit. There were also 
occasional purchases and transactions made on that account, when credit was available. 
And the balance continued to accrue interest.
Mr M continued to also make transactions on card B. These reduced the credit balance on 
that account and did not incur interest. And as there was a credit balance no monthly 
repayments were made to that account. By October 2017, through spending, the credit 
balance had reduced to just over £6,400. 
Transactions on card B then became less frequent and the credit balance remained at a 
similar level for several months. In April 2018 it stood at £6,482.21. There were no further 
transactions on card B until February 2019. 
In the mean time Mr M had continued to make monthly repayments to card A by direct debit. 
He got into some financial difficulty around July 2018 and Barclays agreed a temporary 
suspension of interest for a couple of months. After that time Mr M resumed making monthly 
repayments and also used card A for some spending.
As a result of the period of inactivity on card B, Barclaycard sent Mr M a cheque for the 
credit balance in February 2019, reducing the card balance to zero. Mr M paid this cheque 
into his Barclays current account.
Between June and November 2019 Mr M began using card B again. In December 2019 he 
had an outstanding balance of just over £5,600 against a revised credit limit of £6,000. He 
was again now making monthly repayments by direct debit to card B, in addition to those 
being made to card A.
Around August 2019 direct debit payments to card A started to be returned unpaid. Mr M 
was able to make some manual payments to the account, the last of which was in November 
2019. Card A was closed in June 2020 with an outstanding balance of £17,595.86.
Mr M continued making repayments to card B for several months, but these also seem to 
have stopped around June 2020. At that point card B had an outstanding balance of 
£5,884.66.
Mr M complained to Barclaycard around June 2020. He said that it had made an error when 
hed sent it the two cheque payments in November 2016 by applying these to one account 
rather than splitting these across the two credit cards as he intended. As a result, hed paid 
more interest than he shouldve done.
Barclays initially incorrectly said that there was only one cheque payment. It later confirmed 
that it was in fact two cheques that had been received. It said that there was no information 
recorded on the cheques that indicated which account Mr M had intended them to be paid 
to. And it felt it was likely only one paying in slip had been included, which was why both 
cheques had been credited to one account. In any event it said it had sent Mr M monthly 
statements for both accounts, so he wouldve been aware of their respective positions. It 
also said hed not queried the balance when contacting it about financial difficulties in 2018 
or when the credit balance was returned to him by cheque in 2019. With that in mind, it didnt 
think there was enough information to suggest it had made an error. 
It did however arrange to refund interest to both credit card accounts from the point they fell 
into arrears, reducing the balance owed. So, for card A it refunded interest and charges 
totalling £2,870.03 and for card B £90.95.
Mr M asked our service to consider the complaint as he still felt Barclaycard had made an 
error with the cheques. One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He felt, on balance, the cheques both being credited against 
card B wasnt due to an error by Barclaycard. And given the amount of information provided 
after the cheques were paid, including monthly statements, he felt Mr M was likely aware of 
the account position. So, in the circumstances he felt the offer made by Barclaycard to 
refund interest after Mr Ms account fell into arrears was fair and reasonable.
Mr M did not agree with the investigators opinion and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that the two cheques he sent to Barclaycard in November 2016 were intended 
to repay the balances on each of his credit cards. Given the amount of each cheque and the 
outstanding balance on each credit card account at the time, I think this likely was his 
intention. What I have to decide is whether the reason this didnt happen is because of 
anything Barclaycard did wrong.
Mr Ms account statements give an explanation of how to make payment by cheque. These 
say to include the account number in the payee line. Ive seen copies of both of the cheques. Neither include any details of the account that the payments were intended to be made 
towards  either in the payee line or on the reverse.
For payments by cheque, Barclaycard also says to include the Giro credit slip from the 
account statements. There are no copies of the Giro credit slip(s) provided at the time of the 
cheque payment available. Barclaycard says that it thinks on balance Mr M only provided 
one Giro slip  for card B, where both cheques were credited.
Mr M has mentioned as part of his complaint that he understood from a conversation with 
Barclaycard in March 2016 that his credit card accounts had been merged, into one. 
Barclaycard has said that its credit cards cannot be merged as they are separate credit 
agreements. From the information Ive seen I dont think there is anything to suggest that this 
did or ought to have happened. And I think it shouldve been clear to Mr M that this was not 
the case, as monthly statements continued to be sent for two separate cards, with two 
separate account numbers and indeed he had access to and use of two different credit 
cards. But if Mr M did indeed think it to be the case that the accounts were merged, then it 
seems likely that he wouldve only submitted one Giro slip when making the cheque 
payments. So, on balance, I think Barclaycards assumption about this is likely correct and 
that the details of only one account to be paid were provided.
So, while I cant know exactly what happened when the two cheques were sent to 
Barclaycard for payment to be made, based on what Ive seen I cant reasonably say, on 
balance, that the cheques both being credited to card B were due to an error by Barclaycard. 
In addition, Barclaycard continued to send Mr M monthly account statements for each credit 
card. These clearly showed that there was an outstanding balance on card A and that card B 
was significantly in credit. Mr M has indicated that he didnt read or review these statements. 
But I dont think Barclaycard can reasonably be held responsible for this decision. 
After the cheque payments were made, Mr M went from making two separate repayments by 
direct debit each month, to only making one  as card B was in credit. This is despite 
continuing to use both cards.
When Mr M spoke to Barclaycard in 2018 about missing a payment on card A, and a 
temporary suspension of interest was arranged, there is nothing to indicate that he raised 
any issue with card B being in credit. 
And when the remaining credit balance of card B, £6,482.21, was returned to him by cheque 
in February 2019, there is nothing to suggest that Mr M questioned what this represented or 
why it had been paid to him. It seems he just banked the cheque.
Based on all of this, I think it was fair for Barclaycard to assume that Mr M was aware of the 
position of the accounts. And, as he didnt raise any issue with how the cheque payments 
had been credited, it was also fair for Barclaycard to assume that either the payments had 
gone ahead as he had intended or that while he mayve initially intended for them to be 
made differently Mr M, knowing the account position, was in fact happy to continue with the 
accounts in the position that they were.
Mr M has questioned why Barclaycard didnt raise card B being in credit when he contacted 
it in 2018 about missing a payment on card A. And I agree, it could potentially have done so. 
But as Ive said, Barclaycard had continued to send a significant amount of information about 
the status of both accounts and I think it was reasonable for it to assume that Mr M was 
aware of the position of both accounts. So, I dont think it was obliged to discuss card B or 
any other accounts Mr M held with it, when discussing card A and the difficulties Mr M was 
having with that account.I do note that the terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card accounts say that a positive, or 
credit, balance shouldnt generally be held on the account and that account holders should 
take care not to create that position when making repayments. And the terms explain that if 
this does happen Barclaycard can return the credit balance. But in the circumstances, I dont 
think Barclaycard acted unreasonably by not doing so immediately  as it made Mr M aware 
of the account position and he continued to use card B for significant spending, reducing the 
positive balance quickly  indicating, I think, that the payments mayve been made as he had 
intended as he intended to utilise the positive balance.
With all of this in mind, I dont think I can say, on balance, that Barclaycard made any error in 
terms of initially crediting the two payments to card B or in the ongoing administration of 
Mr Ms accounts. So, I dont think it has acted incorrectly by continuing to apply interest to 
card A  as there was a balance outstanding. This is because I think it was not unreasonable 
for it to think the accounts were being maintained in line with Mr Ms intentions. 
Where a customer experiences financial difficulty, wed generally expect a lender to treat 
them positively and sympathetically. There is no set requirement for what this will look like. It 
can include the suspension of interest and charges  but this again isnt a requirement. Here 
I can see, where a payment was missed in 2018, interest on card A was reduced to 0% for a 
couple of months to allow Mr M to get back on track. And Barclaycard offered, when the 
complaint about the cheques was initially made, to refund interest and charges applied to 
both cards, from the point they later fell into further arrears, reducing the outstanding 
balances by just under £3,000. It also appears card A was suspended, including interest no 
longer applying, to prevent the account position getting worse. This seems fair on the face of 
things but as Im not considering a complaint about financial difficulties this isnt a formal 
finding. What I would say though is that, as I dont think Barclaycard made any errors with 
the cheque repayments in November 2016, I dont intend to require it to do anything further, 
or refund any other interest or charges stemming from the cheque payments, at this time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman