DRN-3305631
The complaint
Mr O says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Moneyboat provided to Mr O between April 
2021 and August 2021. Mr Os lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Monthly 
Repayments
1 16/04/2021 04/06/2021 6 £400 £112.21
2 12/08/2021 Outstanding 6 £300 £86.82
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. Mr O disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Moneyboat asked Mr O for information about his monthly income and outgoings and it 
carried out credit checks. Mr O said his monthly income was £2,000 and his outgoings were 
between £800 and £980. There was nothing untoward in the results of the credit checks that 
should have prompted further checks. So it looked as though Mr O had sufficient disposable 
income to repay his loans sustainably. 
Mr O said that a thorough check on his credit file would have shown his dependency on 
short term loans. But I cant see that Moneyboats checks found that he was having 
problems managing his money. For example, hed had no defaults in the previous three 
years and no accounts showed late payments. 
Mr O also thought that taking out the second loan two months after he had repaid loan one 
should have been a red flag. But hed had no problems repaying loan one and loan two was 
for a lesser amount. So I dont think this should have concerned Moneyboat. 
I accept that Mr Os actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Moneyboat obtained. And Mr Os actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Moneyboat could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr O, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr O. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Moneyboat needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Moneyboat carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Os actual financial 
position. 
Moneyboat relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Os declared income and Mr O only taking two loans, 
I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. 
Mr O said that Moneyboat was slow in responding to his report of financial difficulties and 
hadnt agreed an affordable repayment plan. But I think Moneyboat sent him an Income and 
Expenditure form to complete and asked for further information about his difficulties in a 
timely manner. And, from the information Mr O supplied, it still looked as if his loan 
repayments were affordable for him. But I expect Moneyboat to respond positively and 
sympathetically if Mr Os having difficulties repaying his loan.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman