DRN-2876176
The complaint
Mr V complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) unfairly declined to 
cover the costs he incurred when appointing his own solicitor. Mr V says DAS failed to 
progress his claim and so he was left with no choice but to appoint his own solicitor.
What happened
Mr V has a legal expenses insurance policy which provides cover for the cost of taking legal 
action or obtaining legal advice. The policy is underwritten by DAS. 
In early November 2019, Mr V made a personal employment claim on his policy. 
DAS contacted Mr V to say it could provide cover subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
But it said it couldnt appoint Mr Vs own solicitor and would instead use one of its 
preferred law firms  who was appointed on 6 November 2019. 
The day after, the solicitors requested information from Mr V so they could assess 
the claims prospect of success. 
On 10 November 2019, Mr V asked DAS to consider the costs hed incurred by using 
his own solicitor. 
DAS explained that pre-incurred costs were specifically excluded under the policy. It 
said that if Mr V wished to stay with his own solicitor, it was at his own expense.
Shortly after, Mr V contacted DAS explaining that he was unhappy with the lack of 
progress. He said hed provided information but hadnt received a reply from DAS. 
DAS explained documentation relating to Mr Vs claim should be sent to the 
solicitors, not DAS. It passed the information on to the solicitors. 
In early December 2019, the solicitors noted key documents were missing, and so 
asked Mr V to provide these. It repeated its request for the information a few weeks 
later, and again in early January 2020.
On receipt of the information, the prospect of success assessment was provided  it 
detailed that some elements had a chance of success, while others didnt. 
Mr V said he wanted to instruct his original solicitor as proceedings were imminent. 
DAS agreed to consider Mr Vs request and wrote to his original solicitor the next day 
requesting a claims management report be completed in 10 days (so it could be 
satisfied if there were reasonable prospects of success) and that the signed terms of 
appointment were received.
DAS has said neither Mr V nor his solicitor responded to its request to enable it to 
instruct Mr Vs own solicitor. 
In April 2020, Mr V advised the matter had been settled. And he subsequently 
complained to DAS.
DAS said the costs Mr V incurred prior to issuing the employment tribunal were 
outside the scope of cover. It said it never received a response from Mr Vs solicitor.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and was satisfied the costs Mr V incurred 
in relation to his own solicitor were not covered under the policy and as DAS had 
offered to appoint Mr Vs solicitor when proceedings were imminent, was satisfied 
DAS had acted fairly.
Mr V disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why. 
The issues here are whether DAS is responsible for the legal costs Mr V incurred before 
cover was confirmed and DAS subsequently appointed its preferred solicitor. And whether 
DAS treated Mr Vs requests to appoint his own solicitor fairly. I consider these requests to 
have been made when Mr V first contacted DAS about his claim, and at the point court 
proceedings were imminent. 
Legal costs incurred prior to cover being confirmed
The starting point for determining whether DAS is responsible for the legal costs Mr V 
incurred prior to it confirming cover, is the policy document, which sets out the terms of the 
contract between DAS and Mr V.
Under the heading what is not covered the policy says, Costs and expenses incurred 
before our written acceptance of a claim.  As DAS hadnt confirmed cover at the point Mr V 
began using his own solicitor, Im satisfied DAS isnt responsible for any pre-incurred costs. 
Its not clear if Mr V continued to seek advice from his own solicitor between the claim being 
accepted and him asking DAS to appoint his own solicitor in January 2020.  But as the policy 
explains, if the legal advice and costs werent agreed by DAS, theyre not covered. 
As well as this, in correspondence between DAS and Mr V on 6 November 2019, DAS said:
We understand youve already taken advice from a solicitor, but unfortunately we 
cant appoint them to act for you at the moment. 
And when confirming the appointment of its preferred solicitor it wrote to Mr V and said:
If you have incurred any costs before this date [6 November 2019] or without prior 
written authority these are not covered by your policy and you will need to pay them.
So, I dont think theres any ambiguity about whether legal costs which were before Mr V 
made his claim or incurred during it without prior authority wouldnt be covered. 
I have however, considered whether DAS is responsible for these costs because its actions 
during the claim  Mr V said it caused delays - left him with no other reasonable alternative 
but to appoint his own solicitor.  
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that DAS caused delays to such an extent 
that it prejudiced Mr Vs claim and left him with no choice but to appoint his own solicitor. 
However, I have seen that Mr V sent information meant for the preferred solicitors to DAS, 
and that when asked for key information by the solicitors, this wasnt provided in a timely 
manner. Its worth highlighting that the policy explains theres a duty on the insured to provide 
information and that the appointed representative (i.e. the insureds own solicitor) must co-
operate with DAS at all times and keep it up to date with the progress of a claim. But I cant 
see that this always happened. So, on balance, I dont think its fair to conclude that DAS 
caused avoidable delays and it follows that I dont think DAS are responsible for the costs 
Mr V incurred during this period.
Did DAS treat Mr Vs request to appoint his own solicitor fairly?
I need to consider whether DAS was aware at the time Mr V made his claim that legal 
proceedings were imminent. From the evidence I have, Im not persuaded proceedings were 
imminent, or that if they were, Mr V made DAS aware of this. Mr V had sought legal advice 
by this point  which isnt conclusive of legal proceedings being imminent  but does suggest 
that he would have known proceedings were imminent, if they were  and it would be 
reasonable to expect him to relay this to DAS. But that didnt happen and so, I dont think 
DAS acted unfairly in appointing one of its preferred solicitors. 
At the end of January 2020, Mr V asked DAS to appoint his own solicitor as legal 
proceedings were imminent. The policy document says:
If the appointed preferred law firm cannot negotiate settlement of the claim and it is 
necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued [] then the insured 
person may choose a law firm to act as the appointed representative.
And in correspondence from 6 November 2019, DAS explained:
If it does become necessary for the matter to go to court, you or your solicitor can 
contact us again as we may be able to provide cover at this time. Theyll need to 
confirm a few details about your claim, including confirmation it is more likely to 
succeed than not, and also agree terms of business with us before were able to 
confirm cover.
This in line with the relevant law and standard practice that a customer is free to choose their 
solicitors where their interests are to be represented in proceedings.
DAS did agree to consider Mr Vs request and wrote to his solicitor of choice the next day 
asking it to complete the claims management report  which it needed before the terms of 
appointment could be agreed. This information was requested a few times, but Mr Vs 
solicitor wasnt forthcoming with it. 
As mentioned above, there is a duty on the insured and appointed legal representative to 
provide necessary information to DAS. As that didnt happen, DAS wasnt able to appoint          
Mr Vs solicitor. And I think that was a reasonable decision in circumstances. Even where 
someone is free to choose their own solicitors, an insurer may still need to assure itself that 
the policy requirements are met.
In summary, Im satisfied the policy terms made it clear when cover would and wouldnt be 
provided in respect of the insured using their own solicitor. And Im not persuaded DAS 
caused delays which meant Mr V had no other reasonable option than to appoint his own 
solicitor. So, I wont be asking DAS to reimburse the legal costs Mr V incurred in respect of 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman