DRN-3057839
The complaint
Mr H believes that Barclays Bank UK PLC have withheld a call recording from him following 
a subject access request brought forwards by himself.
What happened
Mr H made a subject access request to Barclays. When the request was actioned by 
Barclays, Mr H discovered that a recording of the second part of a telephone call that hed 
had with Barclays hadnt been provided. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Hs complaint. They noted that during the telephone call in question, 
Mr H had been transferred from one Barclays agent to another, at which time the recording 
of the call had stopped such that no recording of the second part of the call had been made. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They acknowledged that the telephone call 
in question had lasted longer than the call recording that Mr H had received, but they felt that 
Barclays had been able to provide a reasonable explanation as to why this was the case. 
So, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised several complaint points with this service. However, a number of these 
points have already been addressed by previous ombudsman decisions issued by this 
service and as such arent eligible for further comment or review. 
As such, my review here will only be concerned with whether it can be ascertained that 
Barclays have deliberately withheld part of a telephone call recording as Mr H believes.
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr H to have made a subject access 
request to Barclays but then to have received a suite of information in response to that 
request that he feels was incomplete.
It isnt disputed by either party that the call in question lasted longer than the recording that 
Barclays have so far provided to Mr H. Barclays have explained that the reason for this is 
that when Mr H was transferred to another Barclays agent during the call, the recording of 
the telephone call stopped at that point such that no recording of the latter part exists.
While I appreciate that Mr H might disagree, Barclays explanation as to why no recording of 
the latter part of the telephone call exists seems reasonable to me, and I find it to be more 
plausible, on balance, than the alternative suggestion that Barclays have the call recording 
but are unwilling to provide it, or that the call recording has been deliberately deleted by 
Barclays so that it cant be provided by them to Mr H.
Barclays have been able to provide this service with a copy of the system notes that the 
agent who took the latter part of the telephone call recorded, and so Im satisfied that these 
notes are available to Mr H if he hasnt been provided them already.
Im aware that Mr H feels that Barclays are in breach of GDPR rules by not providing a copy 
of the call recording for the latter part of the telephone call. However, potential breaches of 
GDPR rules fall outside the remit of this service, and as such I can only refer Mr H to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he wishes to pursue this matter further.
Similarly, Im aware that Mr H feels that Barclays being unable to provide a copy of the call 
recording means that they are in breach of industry regulations. Again, this matter falls 
outside the remit of this service, and I can only refer Mr H to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) who are the relevant regulatory body in this instance. 
It is within the remit of this service to decide as to whether a fair outcome can be considered 
as having taken place, given the circumstances of a complaint. And in this instance, given 
that Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Barclays explanation of why the latter part 
of the call recording wasnt provided to Mr H is valid and reasonable, I am satisfied that 
Barclays havent treated Mr H unfairly in relation to this point. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I 
trust that Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman