DRN-2882492
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) mis-sold her a home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Ms S took out a home insurance policy with Sainsburys via a cashback website. As part of 
the purchase, Ms S added home emergency cover. About a year later, Ms S made a claim 
on the home emergency policy. Engineers visited, but it took about 10 days for the claim to 
be resolved.
Ms S complained to Sainsburys about the amount of time it took for her claim to be dealt 
with. When Sainsburys replied, it said it had passed the complaint to the home emergency 
policy underwriter, as it related to the home emergency claim itself. 
Ms S complained to Sainsburys again as she was dissatisfied with its answer and said that 
it was difficult to raise a complaint. When Sainsburys replied it said it was standard for the 
policy underwriter to deal with complaints about how a claim was handled. It confirmed it 
couldnt comment on the claim itself. Sainsburys said it was satisfied that the terms of the 
policy were the same for every customer and that if Ms S had decided the policy was 
unsuitable, shed had 14 days from inception in which to cancel it. Sainsburys said the 
policy documents had explained how to log a complaint.
When Ms S complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the policy hadnt been mis-sold. Sainsburys had explained its role and it was appropriate for 
Sainsburys to pass the complaint about the claim itself to the insurer 
As Ms S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im looking at whether Sainsburys mis-sold Ms S the home emergency policy. Im aware 
that Ms S has also complained to this service about a claim she made under the policy. 
However, that is a separate complaint about the underwriter and I will not be commenting on 
the claim handling as part of this decision, although I am aware of what happened.
When taking out an insurance policy, customers should be given information thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. Ive considered the information provided to Ms S, including the policy 
documents, when she took out the policy.
In terms of what the policy covered, I think the information was clear. It explained the types 
of emergencies it covered and the maximum amount payable per claim. It also explained 
how to make a claim. I accept that Ms S wasnt happy with how a claim was dealt with under 
the policy. However, a problem with a particular claim doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold.
Ms S also said it wasnt clear that Sainsburys wouldnt deal with the claim. So, Ive also 
looked at what the policy documents said about this. In the section of the policy headed 
About Our Insurance Services it said:
Sainsburys Bank acts as an intermediary for home insurance. For Sainsburys Home 
Insurance we offer products from a limited number of selected underwriters. Please contact 
us if you want a list of who those underwriters are. When arranging and maintaining cover 
Sainsburys Bank act as an agent of the Insurance company shown on your Policy 
Schedule.
The policy also listed that Ms S had taken out home emergency cover and listed the name of 
the insurer. The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) also listed the name of the 
insurer at the top of the document and said that this company was the underwriter.
The Additional Cover policy booklet also said:
Sainsburys Home Insurance and the add-on products detailed in this policy
booklet are arranged by Sainsburys Bank, acting as an agent of the insurer(s)
specified in your Policy Schedule.
The insurer provides your insurance and has agreed to insure you subject to
the terms, conditions and exclusions contained in this policy booklet. They
cover you for liability, loss or damage that may occur during the period of
insurance that youve paid or agreed to pay the premium for.
There were other similar references elsewhere in the booklet and it also named the home 
emergency cover provider, including at the top of each page of the home emergency 
section.
So, thinking about this, in my view the documents made clear what Sainsburys role was and 
that it wasnt responsible for dealing with the claims. As part of that, Im aware that Ms S has 
said Sainsburys was responsible for much of the claims handling. However, it is the 
underwriter who is responsible overall for dealing with any claims. This remains the case 
even if the underwriter delegates some or all of the claims handling to another company. 
When Ms S complained about the way a claim had been dealt with, she also didnt think 
Sainsburys should have passed it to the underwriter to deal with. Looking at the policy 
documents, the Additional Cover policy booklet had a section on complaints. This explained 
that complaints about product sales should be directed to Sainsburys and then in a section 
headed Claims Handling it said:
If youre not satisfied with the handling of your claim on any of the additional products 
featured in this booklet please contact the provider below.
It then listed the name of the underwriter and full contact details. It is standard for the 
underwriter to deal with complaints about claims handling and so I dont think there was 
anything unusual about this or that Sainsburys did anything wrong by passing on the 
complaint to the underwriter.
So, having thought about this complaint carefully, I dont uphold it or require Sainsburys to 
do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman