DRN-4313048
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Marsh Finance Ltd (MFL) dealt with the termination of a hire 
purchase agreement he had with them.
Mr S is being represented in this complaint by Miss S under a Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPA).
What happened
In February 2019, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MFL. The agreement was for £12,223 over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments of 
£331.04 and a final payment of £341.04. In September 2019, Mr S made MFL aware of the 
LPA, and authorised them to deal with Miss S going forward.
Miss S advised MFL that Mr S needed additional support and provided medical evidence. 
She also provided MFL with her contact details for any correspondence going forward.
In July 2021, Miss S advised MFL that the agreement had become unaffordable for Mr S and 
asked to exercise his right to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. She said Mr S had 
already paid £8,290 towards the agreement, and VT required him to pay £9,936. So, she 
asked, as part of the VT process, they come to an agreement for Mr S to be able to pay this 
shortfall. Ms S chased MFL for a response to the request during July and August 2021.
On 9 August 2021, despite the LPA being in place, MFL attempted to contact Mr S about the 
VT. Miss S responded, explaining MFLs actions were causing Mr S some distress and a 
deterioration in his medical condition. She made a token payment of £25 and proposed a 
payment plan of £50 a month going forward. She also said, as Mr S was a vulnerable adult, 
theyd been in contact with a debt charity whom Ill refer to as S, and that S would be able 
to put a more permanent arrangement in place, once any VT shortfall was known. 
MFL asked that Mr S complete an income and expenditure form and chased for this to be 
completed. But Miss S again explained that S needed the final VT shortfall figure before any 
arrangements could be put in place. However, MFL refused to allow Mr S to VT the 
agreement until a payment plan was in place. And, In January 2022, they contacted Mr S 
directly to ask him to pay the whole VT shortfall amount within seven days.
MFL finally terminated the agreement in March 2022 and collected the car. After collection, 
the car was inspected and MFL invoiced Mr S for damage to the car that had fallen outside 
of normal fair wear and tear. They also said that the VT shortfall was £3,622.44, which 
included the damage charges and the arrears that had built up since the VT request was 
originally made on 21 July 2021.
Miss S was unhappy with how Mr S had been treated by MFL, and she brought his 
complaint to us for investigation. Miss S complained:
that the value of the car had been inflated at the outset to cover the finance shortfall 
on Mr Ss previous agreement;
that MFL had handled the request to VT poorly, and the delays resulted in further 
arrears and charges;
about the inspection of the car, and the damage charges applied;
that MFL continued to chase Mr S for the outstanding debt, despite the guidelines for 
dealing with vulnerable customers; and
that Mr S had been pressured into taking an unsuitable agreement.
Our investigator said that the complaint about the unsuitable agreement had already been 
dealt with by ourselves, so we wouldnt be looking into this complaint again. They also 
explained that, although there was no evidence of the cars price being inflated to cover 
existing finance, this was a complaint against the dealership, and not something MFL would 
be responsible for.
The investigator also thought that the damage charges were fair, as the damage to the car 
fell outside wear and tear guidelines. So, MFL acted reasonably in applying these.
However, the investigator said MFL shouldve dealt with the VT request when they received 
it, and a nine-month delay in processing it was unreasonable. Especially given the serious 
impact the delay had on Mr Ss medical condition. And they thought that MFL shouldve dealt 
with the shortfall by way of a suitable repayment plan, which was what Miss S requested.
Finally, the investigator said that MFL hadnt treated Mr S fairly by contacting him about 
matters when he had a representative in place to assist him. And Miss S has provided 
medical evidence of how MFLs actions had impacted Mr S. So, they said that MFL should 
treat the agreement as being terminated in July 2021, removing any arrears, interest, and 
charges applied after this date; amend Mr Ss credit file to reflect the correct termination 
date, and to remove any entries after this date; and pay Mr S an additional £750 to 
recognise the serious impact their actions had on his health.
Miss S agreed with the investigator, but MFL didnt. They said that Mr S didnt have the right 
to VT the agreement until hed repaid at least 50% of the agreement (which he hadnt done, 
and refused to do), and their attempts to contact him to discuss this were unsuccessful. So, 
they thought theyd acted reasonably by delaying the termination date, and that Mr S was 
responsible for all payments to the point the agreement was terminated. Because of this, 
MFL have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Based on the investigators view, and the comments of both parties, Im satisfied that most of 
the complaints raised on behalf of Mr S have been resolved. And the only outstanding issues 
are the VT, and how MFL dealt with Mr S about this. As such, my decision will focus on 
these points only.Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr S signed on 21 February 2019. Under the heading 
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS it says:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person you 
make your payments. They will be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the 
total amount payable under this agreement, that is £9936.20. If you have already 
paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable 
care of the goods, you will not have to pay anything more.
Ive noted that this is standard wording that complies with the requirements of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and isnt a clause that is specific to either this agreement or to just MFL.
MFL have stated that Mr S wasnt able to VT the agreement, as he hadnt paid them at least 
£9,936.20 at the time he asked about this. However, this isnt the case. The wording above 
is clear that MFL are entitled to receive £9,936.20, but nowhere in this clause, or in the 
agreement as a whole, does it say that termination cannot take place unless and until this 
amount has been paid. And the use of if you have already paid at least this amount itself 
implies that the amount MFL are entitled to doesnt have to be paid before termination.
Given this, Im satisfied that MFLs interpretation of their own contract is incorrect, and that a 
customer is entitled to VT an agreement at any time, regardless of how much has been paid. 
So, in a circumstance like this, where the amount MFL are entitled to hasnt been paid, Id 
expect them to process the VT without any undue delay, and invoice the customer for any 
VT shortfall, as well as any other charges theyre entitled to apply, for example, end of 
contract damage charges and any overdue instalments (arrears) at the point of VT. 
If the customer is financially unable to pay these charges as a single payment, Id then 
expect MFL to follow the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on forbearance and due 
consideration and agree a suitable and sustainably affordable payment plan.
As such, Im satisfied that MFL acted unreasonably by delaying the VT process, while 
continuing to expect Mr S to make the monthly payments. So, Id expect them to do 
something to put things right.
Putting things right
Miss S made a formal request to VT the agreement on 21 July 2021. And, at this point, she 
also asked about putting a suitable repayment arrangement in place to pay any shortfall. For 
the reasons given above, Im satisfied that MFL acted unreasonably by delaying actioning 
the VT request. However, I also wouldnt have expected MFL to have actioned the request, 
and terminated the agreement, on the day the request was received  they have a process 
to follow, and they would need to arrange to collect the car.
Given this, I think that eight working days is a reasonable amount of time to allow for MFL to 
deal with the request, and for the car to be collected. As such, Im satisfied that a reasonable 
termination date for this agreement is 30 July 2021.
I also think that MFL acted unfairly by continuing to try and contact Mr S about this matter, 
when they were in possession of an LPA, and given that Mr S had asked them to deal with 
Miss S. Miss S has provided medical evidence of Mr Ss condition, and the serious impact 
an extended delay in terminating the agreement had on his health.The investigator has recommended that MFL pay Mr S £750 to recognise the impact of their 
actions. And, given the length of the delay, and how seriously this affected Mr S, Im satisfied 
this recommendation is in the region of what I wouldve directed, had no recommendation 
been made. In their comments on the investigators view, MFL failed to address their 
actions, or to explain why they chose to ignore that an LPA was in place, and that they 
shouldve been solely dealing with Miss S as the registered attorney for Mr S. 
As such, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt adopt the investigators 
recommendation as part of my final decision. So, MFL should:
treat the agreement as being terminated on 30 July 2021;
remove all arrears, interest, and charges that have accrued or been applied since 
this date;
amend Mr Ss credit file to show the agreement as being terminated on 30 July 2021, 
removing all entries that have been applied since this date;
provide Mr S with an amended invoice showing the amended VT shortfall and end of 
contract damage charges; and
pay Mr S an additional £750 to recognise the serious impact their actions have had 
on him.
I would remind MFL of the requirement to treat Mr S with forbearance and due consideration 
when arranging a suitable repayment plan, that they should only be corresponding with Miss 
S going forward, and that the £750 compensation cannot be applied against the outstanding 
balance unless Mr S (Miss S) specifically agrees to this in writing.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Marsh Finance Ltd. And they 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman