DRN-3185188
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA hasnt refunded her £980 lost 
to a villa rental scam.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs As compalint and both parties have since had a 
chance to respond. A copy of what I said follows.
Mrs A was looking for a holiday villa through an online booking website. She found one 
she liked and made an enquiry through the website. She was then contacted by text and 
told she could arrange the details of the booking direct with the property owner.
Mrs A didnt realise at the time, but shed become caught up in a scam. Whilst the 
property did exist, the person advertising had no right to let it out. They were posing as 
the owner in order to defraud people like Mrs A.
Mrs A received an invoice for the villa once all of the details around booking dates had 
been confirmed. In order to pay, Mrs A had to click on a link which had been provided in 
the invoice sent by the scammer. Mrs A has explained she didnt set up any of the 
payment instruction herself, everything was pre-populated, and she only had to authorise 
it. She didnt spot anything unusual and didnt notice that the payment was going through 
as a personal payment, rather than a business transaction. She completed the payment 
instruction and sent £980.
The scam was revealed when Mrs As friend tried to find the same villa but couldnt. Mrs 
A got back in touch with the villa booking website and it explained she seemed to have 
fallen victim to a scam. But it couldnt help her further. This was two months after the 
money had been sent.
Mrs A reported the scam to PayPal and asked for help. It looked into what had happened 
but said it couldnt provide a refund as the payment was authorised. PayPal pointed to the 
fact that the payment had been made as a family and friends transaction, and so its buyer 
protection policy didnt apply.
Mrs A brought the complaint to our service as she was unhappy with PayPals response. 
One of our investigators considered all that had happened and recommended the 
complaint be upheld, with Mrs A receiving a full refund of the £980 paid to the scammer. 
He also said PayPal should pay Mrs A interest on her loss at 8% simple per year and give 
a further £50 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused. In upholding the 
complaint the investigator said:
the payment was properly auhtorised by Mrs A and so the starting position 
was that she was responsible for it;
there was no reason for PayPal to have questioned the payment more than it 
did at the time, given it wasnt particularly unusual;
PayPal didnt seem to have done enough to try and recover the funds 
from the recipient at the time Mrs A reported the scam;
PayPal hadnt provided evidence to show the funds had been removed from 
the recipient account at the time the scam was reported, despite his requests for 
it to do so.
It was the lack of evidence on the last two points that led to our investigator upholding 
the complaint.
Mrs A accepted but PayPal did not. It reiterated that its buyer protection policy didnt 
apply given the payment type used. It didnt comment on the recovery of funds aspect 
of the findings.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is missing or incomplete, I must make my findings on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say, what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And this 
is relevant here, given PayPal hasnt provided some of the information requested by the 
investigator.
Should PayPal refund Mrs As loss?
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs A but I dont intend to uphold her complaint. Losing money 
to a deception like this is particularly cruel. And I know that fraud and scams can have a 
significant impact on a person, both financially and emotionally. So I have thought very 
carefully about what happened to Mrs A, and whether PayPal has acted fairly in not 
refunding her loss.
It seems quite clear that the payment made was properly authorised. Mrs A intended to 
make it and has confirmed she did use her PayPal account to do so. I understand she 
didnt set up the instruction herself and have seen evidence that persuades me she 
received a request for payment from the scammer, meaning she wouldnt have had to do 
much to send the money. But she did review that instruction and authorise the payment to 
leave her PayPal account.
A payment will still be considered as auhtorised even when made as part of a scam. Ive 
seen the correspondence Mrs A received from the scammer and its clear she was dealing 
with someone that knew what they were doing. The scammer had deployed a number of 
sophisticated tactics and there were a lot of convincing elements. But, whilst I can see how 
Mrs A was drawn in, the payment remains an authorised one.
It looks as though there was some confusion with the initial investigation by PayPal. That 
seems to have been because the payment was originally identified as unauthorised. That 
would lead to a different investigation, where different questions were asked, essentially 
trying to establish how someone other than Mrs A could have made the payment. And I 
think its this misunderstanding that led to some problems with PayPals initial 
investigation. It quickly responded to say it was satisfied the payment was authorised and 
then, it appears, did little more.I do think PayPal could have done better here. Had it properly considered what Mrs A 
was saying, it would have realised she wasnt denying having authorised the payment. 
Instead she was saying shed fallen victim to a scam. But, overall, I dont think this has 
made a difference to the outcome.
Had PayPal understood the payment as auhtorised from the outset it would still have 
been considering whether Mrs A was due a refund under its buyer protection policy. 
And the answer would have remained the same in that she was not.
I appreciate Mrs A has said she didnt know that the payment had been set up as a 
personal rather than business payment. The way in which the money was requested 
might well have made that detail more difficult to spot. But Im afraid I cant say that the 
buyer protection policy should apply to a transaction where it wouldnt normally, based on 
the customer being caught up in a scam.
And so it is the case that PayPal neednt have refunded Mrs A given the payment was 
properly authorised and wasnt covered by the buyer protection policy. The next thing 
to consider is whether theres anything else PayPal ought to have done once the scam 
was reported.
I agree with our investigator where hes said that PayPal ought to have attempted to 
recover the funds from the recipient. Id expect it do so for any payment made by one of 
its customers where a scam has been clearly identified, whether it was covered by the 
buyer protection policy or not.
Our investigator did ask PayPal for information about the recipient account. In particular, 
he wanted to know about the recovery efforts made by PayPal and detail of when Mrs As 
money left the recipient account. He did so in order to assess whether such evidence 
would show that funds had still remained in the recipient account and so ought to have 
been recoverable. But PayPal declined to provide that evidence, citing data protection 
rules as its reason for not doing so. Its for these reasons the investigator upheld the 
complaint; that PayPal hadnt evidenced that it did what it ought to have done to recover 
the funds and that they might have still been available.
I can see where the investigator is coming from here. And I agree that PayPal has again 
acted poorly in not providing evidence to us. It can share information and evidence in 
confidence, or in redacted form, and so its difficult to understand why it has provided no 
detail about when funds were removed from the recipient account. However, I dont 
believe this gives enough grounds to say the complaint should be upheld.
I explained earlier that where there is evidence missing I must make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. And its here where I must make such a finding. The question is 
whether I believe its more likely than not that action from PayPal at the time the scam was 
reported would have led to Mrs A recovering her money. And I dont believe it would have; 
I believe its more likely than not the money would have already been taken and therefore 
irrecoverable as a result.
I say as much because its clear Mrs A was the victim of a sophisticated and well-
executed scam. And so it seems very unlikely that the proceeds of any such fraud would 
be kept in the recipient account for any length of time. To do so would mean the risk of 
them being returned to the sender, on discovery of the scam. Indeed, in this services 
experience, funds are removed almost immediately. Mrs A didnt report the scam to 
PayPal for around two months. It follows then that the likelihood of her funds still being 
available to recover was very small.So whilst I dont believe PayPal have handled Mrs As scam case or the subsequent 
complaint well, I cant say it must refund her loss. And its general poor handling isnt 
enough for me to uphold the complaint.
PayPals failure to provide requested evidence
Ive already said how PayPal hasnt provided evidence that weve asked for. Thats 
despite repeated requests and ample time being given. Ive already informally set out 
PayPals obligations but, for clarity, Ill quote the relevant dispute resolution (DISP) rules 
here from the FCA Handbook. They state:
3.5.9 the Ombudsman may:
(2) accept information in confidence (so that only an edited version, 
summary or description is disclosed to the other party) where he considers it 
appropriate;
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account 
of the failure by a party to provide information requested;
3.5.10 Evidence which the Ombudsman may accept in confidence includes 
confidential evidence about third parties and security information.
3.5.11 The Ombudsman has the power to require a party to provide evidence. 
Failure to comply with the request can be dealt with by the court.
3.5.13 The Ombudsman may fix (and extend) time limits for any aspect of the 
consideration of a complaint by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
3.5.14 If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of t he complaint; and
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience 
caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make.
I cant see that PayPal has presented any sound reason for not providing the requested 
evidence within the time limits previously set. And whilst I believe the outcome Ive 
reached on the merits of the case is fair and reasonable, its clear that the requested 
evidence would have helped resolve this complaint more quickly and perhaps without the 
need for a decision at all. And so Mrs A has been caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in prolonging the outcome of this complaint. So I intend to make an award 
of £200.
PayPal accepted the provisional decision and has already paid Mrs A the £200. It also 
provided the evidence that it hadnt before. It was able to show that the money Mrs A sent 
to the scammer left the receiving account on the same day it was sent.
Mrs A accepted the outcome once the new evidence was shared.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties have now accepted the findings set out in my provisional decision and in light of 
the new evidence. As such theres no need for me to make any further findings or remarks.   
Putting things right
PayPal has already paid the £200 to Mrs A so theres nothing more for it to do there. But it 
should, if it is able, remove the payee name/details from Mrs As account as she 
understandably finds it distressing to keep being reminded of what happened.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman