DRN-2266745
The complaint
Ms D has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account (PBA), called a Select Silver account. She paid a monthly fee for the 
account and received several potential benefits in return. She thinks that NatWest should 
refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened 
Ms D moved to Britain several years ago and in 2014 NatWest sold her the Select Silver 
account, which she kept until at least 2019. One of our adjudicators has already looked into 
her complaint and didnt recommend that NatWest should give her any money back. 
Ms D didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms D and NatWest have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ms D has told us that in 2014 she had just moved to the UK and had to open a bank account 
to receive her salary, but she couldnt speak English and didnt know anything about banking 
in Britain. Shes said that she went into one of NatWests branches, but it only offered her 
the Select Silver account without mentioning that she could have had a fee-free account. 
Shes said that NatWest didnt tell her about the fees or benefits of the account, and that it 
filled out the application form for her without explaining what it was doing. Shes said the she 
signed the form because at the time as was very happy that she could open a bank account 
so fast.
NatWest has denied treating Ms D in this way. It agrees that it sold her the Select Silver 
account during a meeting at one of its branches in 2014, but it says it did so fairly by telling 
her about the accounts costs and benefits and giving her a choice. It has also told us that its 
records show that she had already been living in the UK for around two years and had 
previously held a fee-free account with another bank. 
Obviously, I wasnt present during the meeting between NatWest and Ms D, so I cant be 
certain about what happened. Instead, I have considered the evidence that is available to 
decide what is most likely to have occurred.
NatWest has sent us a copy pf Ms Ds application form, which is dated October 2014. The 
form contains the comment customer wants to switch over  lives local. The form shows 
current and previous addresses for Ms D, which is consistent with her wanting to change 
accounts following a move of house. It records her as living at the previous address since 
2012. NatWest has also included a copy of a statement from a different bank which shows 
that she had a savings account (which I believe was probably fee-free) with that bank in July 
2014. 
So, looking at the form and the statement from the other bank, it seems unlikely to me that 
Ms D had just arrived in the UK when NatWest sold her Select Silver account. Similarly, it 
seems she had held another account in the UK, and so had at least some knowledge of the 
way banks worked here and had probably begun to understand English. 
I accept that its possible, although unlikely, that Natwest filled out the form without any input 
from Ms D, but I doubt it could have fabricated the statement from the other bank which 
shows she hadnt just arrived in the UK and wasnt opening her first bank account here. So, 
it seems unlikely to me that NatWest treated Ms D in the way she has described. 
Of course, just because NatWest didnt fill out the form without Ms Ds input, doesnt mean it 
got everything else right. So, in fairness to Ms D, Ive looked to see if NatWest may have 
mis-sold the Select Silver account to her in any other way. 
In 2014, NatWest, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts 
(including Select Silver accounts) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice 
on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In 
both situations, as well as giving Ms D a choice, NatWest would have had to tell her about 
the Select Silver accounts costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale it would also 
have had to check if the Select Silver account was appropriate for her circumstances. 
NatWest has told us that it sold the Select Silver account to Ms D on an information only 
basis. This was its usual practice in 2014 and I havent seen anything to make me think it 
gave Ms D personal advice. So, I have accepted its position about this. 
As Ms D had probably already held a fee-free account in the UK and seems to have chosen 
to go into the NatWest branch to open another account, Im satisfied that she knew she had 
some choices. At that time, NatWest also offered fee-free accounts and the application form 
mentioned that they were available, so I think its highly likely that NatWest told Ms D about 
them and gave her a choice of accounts to which she could switch over. 
I also think that NatWest probably told Ms D about the potential benefits of the account and 
its cost. The form itself gave very brief details of the benefits and told Ms D how much the 
account would cost. So, I think its likely that Natwest brought these to Ms Ds attention 
during the meeting; after all, it was trying to sell the account to her, and it was in its own 
interests to tell her what she could gain in return for her monthly fees. 
When Ms D complained directly to NatWest, she raised some different concerns to those 
she brought to us. She said that she would have never taken the PBA knowing what kind of 
insurance products were included, what they really covered and what was necessary to use 
them. At that time, the Select Silver account included European travel insurance and mobile 
phone insurance. Ms D has said that she didnt have a mobile phone, but I understand that 
she travelled to Europe from time-to-time, so may have found the travel insurance potentially 
attractive. Moreover, as Im satisfied that NatWest told Ms D about the benefits but didnt 
give her personal advice, this was something for her to consider for herself.
Similarly, in Ms Ds original complaint, she also mentioned charges for unarranged 
overdrafts and returned direct debits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to convince me 
that NatWest charged her for anything unfairly.
So, in summary, while I accept that NatWest may not have got everything right in the way it 
sold the Select Silver account to Ms D, Im satisfied that it gave her a choice and told her about the accounts potential benefits and costs. I dont think NatWest mis-sold the Select 
Silver account to Ms D. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ds complaint that National 
Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold the Select Silver account to her. I am not going to tell it to 
give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman