DRN-4116991
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining Barclays Bank UK PLC has recorded missed payment markers on her 
credit file in respect to her credit card account.
 
What happened
In August 2021, Barclays reduced the credit limit on Mrs Ks credit card account from £9,500 
to £8,300. Mrs K complained that it had done so, as she said she was relying on this balance 
to enable her to fund essential medical treatment she needed abroad. She also said this had 
impacted her credit score, which she said was affecting her ability to apply for a loan.
Barclays said it was entitled to reduce Mrs Ks credit limit, but it agreed it could have 
provided better customer service. And it paid £25 in compensation onto her credit card 
account to reflect this.
In June 2022, Mrs K contacted Barclays again to say she was going to close the account as 
she was unhappy with the service it had provided and asked to enter into a repayment plan. 
Barclays agreed to allow her to pay £108 per month and it said the arrangement would start 
in July 2022.
In July 2022, Mrs K contacted Barclays again to complain it had recorded missed payment 
markers against her record for June and July 2022. The call handler said hed look into it. He 
later called back and said that it could have made it clearer to her that entering into a 
repayment plan would initially impact Mrs Ks credit file. So he said he would arrange for the 
July missed payment marker and the one that would be applied in August 2022 to be 
removed.
However, in August 2022, Mrs K complained to Barclays that the missed payment markers 
hadnt been removed. The complaint handler said the original call handler shouldnt have 
said the missed payment markers would be removed, because he said theyd been correctly 
applied. However, he offered £75 in compensation for the conflicting responses.
Mrs K didnt think Barclays was being fair as she said she made it clear in the telephone call 
in June 2022 when she entered into the repayment plan that she didnt want her credit file  
impacted. And she didnt think it was fair for Barclays to remove its offer to remove the 
missed payment markers. So she referred her complaint to this service. 
During our investigators investigation, it came to light that the missed payment markers 
were added, because Mrs K made the payments on the 20th of each month, but they were 
due on the 19th of each month. And Barclays highlighted that it had written to Mrs K to say 
that the monthly payments needed to be paid by the 19th. However, Mrs K said she didnt 
receive that letter and said she had been told on the phone that the payments needed to be 
made by the 20th. So she said she followed Barclays guidance. Barclays listened to the call 
again and confirmed it had told Mrs K that the payment needed to be made by the 20th of 
each month, but it reiterated that the letter it sent gave the correct information. So it said 
Mrs K was aware of when she needed to make the payment.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She thought it was unfair for Barclays to 
record missed payment markers for July and August 2022 as she thought Mrs K had 
reasonably followed the guidance it gave on the telephone call. However, she said Mrs K 
hadnt made a payment in June 2022 and she commented that Mrs K had said on 
14 June 2022 that she wasnt going to make a payment. So she didnt think Barclays needed 
to remove this marker. Finally she thought Barclays should pay an additional £150 in 
compensation for putting the markers on in the first instance.
Barclays accepted the investigators opinion. However, Mrs K didnt think it was fair. She 
said she told Barclays she wouldnt make the payment because it had unfairly put a block on 
her card without telling her. And she said the call handler should have told her to make the 
payment in the telephone call when she entered into the payment arrangement. So she 
thought Barclays should remove this marker too.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Barclays has agreed with the investigators opinion that it should remove the missed 
payment markers for July and August 2022. So I dont intend to comment any further than 
this, other than to say I agree with the investigators opinion regarding this. Whats left for me 
to decide is whether I think it should also remove the missed payment marker for June 2022. 
I think it should.
Mrs K called on 20 June 2022 to discuss her options. Its clear from listening to this call that 
she was in a distressed state because of what had happened on her account up to this point. 
What happened before is not a subject of this complaint  but I am considering whether 
Barclays did enough to support her on this telephone call and gave sufficient information to 
assist her.
In this call, Mrs K expressed concern about there being any impact on her credit file. The call 
handler set out that entering into a payment arrangement as Mrs K was going to do may 
have an impact as it would record that she would be entering into an arrangement to pay. In 
the call, Mrs K also asked for an extension for the arrangement to start until the end of 
August 2022, but Barclays understandably said the latest it could start was the month later. 
But I think it was reasonable for Mrs K to have understood from this call that she didnt need 
to make any payments until 20 July 2022. At this point, I think Mrs K could still have made 
the payment due for June 2022 without there being an impact on her credit file. And Im 
satisfied that she didnt do so because she reasonably understood from what the call handler 
said to her that no payments were due until July 2022. It follows that I think its unfair that 
she has a missed payment marker on her file. So I think Barclays should remove this as 
well.
Finally, Im conscious that Mrs K has set out that she has found the whole dealings with 
Barclays distressing. That said, I think the majority of her unhappiness is down to what 
happened before she entered into the arrangement and, as I said, Im not considering that in 
this decision. However, Barclays has caused Mrs K some distress and inconvenience in 
unfairly recording the missed payment markers. Shes had the upset of her credit file being 
affected more than it should have done by having missed payment markers as opposed to 
saying arrangement to pay. And Im conscious that Barclays initially said it would remove 
the markers, but then retracted that offer. Shes also had to take more steps than she should 
have had to do to put things right. Barclays has already paid £75 in compensation, but I dont 
think thats sufficient. The investigator recommended Barclays pay a further £150 in 
compensation and I think thats fair.
Both parties responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion. So I uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do the following to put things right:
1. Remove the missed payment markers for June, July and August 2022; and
2. Pay a further £150 in compensation in addition to the £75 in compensation originally 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman