DRN-2046493
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Metro Bank PLC dealt with his ISA switch request and how it 
dealt with him in branch. 
What happened
Mr M says he wanted to transfer his ISA from Metro to a bank I will call B. He says Metro 
would not allow the transfer and its staff laughed and mocked him when he attended the 
branch. Mr M also says Metro forced him to close his ISA account and the transfer to B 
didnt take place. He says Metros actions have caused him stress and anxiety and he didnt 
receive a promised call back from it.
Metro says Mr M transferred his ISA into his current account and it correctly closed the ISA 
account. It says it didnt receive a transfer application from B and as the money had been 
taken out of the ISA it wouldnt have been able to transfer the ISA in any event. Metro 
accepts it didnt call Mr M back as agreed but doesnt accept its staff laughed at or mocked 
him.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought by Mr M transferring his money out of the ISA that an ISA switch wouldnt have been 
possible but accepted Metros complaint response didnt address this main issue. The 
investigator also accepted Metro hadnt called Mr M as agreed but didnt think it possible to 
conclude its staff laughed at or mocked Mr M.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he moved his money as he didnt think it was safe 
and questions why his savings account is still open. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Metro has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I realise Mr M 
will be disappointed by my decision and having listened to his call to Metro, I appreciate how 
strongly he feels about whats taken place.
I make clear to Mr M that the rules about ISAs are not set by Metro but by Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC). And Im satisfied that having looked at Metros records that 
Mr M transferred his money from his Metro ISA account into his current account. I think at 
that stage Mr M would not have been able to transfer his money into an ISA with B in that tax 
year due to HMRC rules. And if Mr M wanted to open a new ISA with B then the correct way 
of doing so would have been for B to arrange the transfer with Metro, but that couldnt take 
place for the reasons I have given. I appreciate that Mr M says he didnt think his money was 
safe with Metro, but I dont think that matters as I have explained that it isnt responsible for 
the ISA rules.
I accept Metro could have made that clearer when Mr M made his complaint and explained 
the ISA rules to him. But I dont think that would have affected the outcome of this complaint 
or justifies any compensation.
I appreciate Mr M says Metro staff behaved inappropriately in branch but I can see Metro 
doesnt accept that was the case. In those circumstances it is impossible to be sure what 
took place and I cant fairly make any conclusions about that part of Mr Ms complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that Metro dealt fairly and appropriately with the ISA process and 
followed Mr Ms instructions. If Mr M didnt understand the ISA rules, then that is not 
something I can fairly hold Metro responsible for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman