DRN-3829469
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with a car he acquired under a hire agreement provided by Volkswagen
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
In September 2020 Mr W acquired a new car through a hire agreement with VWFS. Mr W 
paid an initial rental of £992.90 and was due to pay £303.36 per month for 24 months. 
Mr W says the car had various issues with it. Ive seen a copy of the vehicle history and can 
see it went in for repair at various times. Ive summarised these below:
November 2020 - gearbox warning light, SOS system fault, other warning messages
May 2021  gearbox error
August 2021  navigation system slow, speaker crackling 
December 2021  infotainment not working, noise from speakers
February 2022  speaker crackling, infotainment going blank, battery warning
At these points repairs were carried out to the car. 
In May 2022, Mr W says he was driving along a busy road when the car failed and he had to 
coast to a stop between lanes, which was very dangerous. It appears this was due to an 
issue with the gearbox. The car was recovered to a garage and Mr W then arranged for it to 
be moved to his home.
Mr W complained to VWFS. It issued its final response in June 2022. It said it was upholding 
the complaint and offered:
£606  equivalent to 10% of monthly rentals for 20 Months
£450 for distress and inconvenience
Return of the car with no charge and refund of monthly payments from May 2022
Cost of transportation
Mr W was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. He said he should get 
his initial payment back. He thought he should be reimbursed 20% of the repayments hed 
made. He said hed had to pay out for hire cars and VWFS had told him it would cover this 
cost. And he said he should be reimbursed the cost of moving the car to his home.
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that he 
thought most of VWFS offer was fair. He said it was Mr Ws choice to move the car, so it 
wasnt reasonable to reimburse this. He said he thought 10% of the repayments was 
reasonable to reflect what happened. And he said he didnt think VWFS had told Mr W it 
would cover the cost of the hire cars, so he thought it was enough to refund the monthly 
payments from when the car failed.
But, our investigator did say VWFS should reimburse a pro rata proportion of Mr Ws initial 
rental that he paid.
Mr W was unhappy with this. He said, in summary, that he thought 20% was still fair and in 
line with another case at our service. He said he should get back the money for the hire cars, 
as he was told on the phone this would be covered. And he said VWFS should pay for the 
recovery of the car to his home.
The case was then passed for a decision.
There has been an ongoing dispute over the collection of the car. But Mr W has confirmed 
the car has now been picked up.
I sent Mr W and VWFS a provisional decision on 8 November 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr W complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ws complaint 
about VWFS. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  VWFS here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, its important to note here that the car Mr W leased was brand 
new. So, I think a reasonable person would expect it to be in excellent condition, with no 
faults or issues. And I think they would expect trouble free motoring for a significant period.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute here that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. I say this as VWFS upheld Mr Ws complaint and agreed to take the car back. But, 
for completeness, I think its worth me very briefly commenting on this. 
I dont think a reasonable person wouldve expected the issues Mr Ws car had, in particular 
the significant failure in May 2022. So, Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.
So, what I need to consider here is whether the offer VWFS made to Mr W was fair and 
reasonable to put things right, or if it needs to do anything further. There are various parts to 
this, and Mr W has set out what he thinks VWFS should do. So, Ill comment on these in 
turn.
Rejection of the car
Thinking about what the CRA says about the remedies available to Mr W given the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality, Im satisfied he has a right to reject the car. I say this as Mr W has 
already previously given VWFS the chance to repair it.
By offering to collect the car VWFS has effectively agreed to this, which I think is fair and 
reasonable. I also think its reasonable that the agreement is treated as Mr W having 
rejected the car from 7 May 2022 when it broke down, so he shouldnt be responsible for any 
repayments towards the agreement from this point.I also agree with our investigator that Mr W should be refunded a pro rata amount of the 
unused part from his initial rental from when the car broke down.
Impaired usage
VWFS has offered to reimburse Mr W 10% of the repayments he made towards the 
agreement. Mr W believes 20% should be repaid.
Ive carefully thought about this. I agree Mr W suffered from impaired usage of the car, as at 
times it was not performing as it should, particularly considering it was brand new.
But, I need to consider the specific circumstances here. Mr W covered around 19,000 miles 
in the car. So he had reasonable use of it. And, looking at the cars history, it does appear 
that for times of the hire period it was performing as it should. Thinking about this, rather 
than awarding a higher amount for the specific periods the car wasnt performing, I think 
pragmatically VWFS approach here of offering 10% across the entire period is reasonable. 
So, I think this part of the offer is fair.
Hire cars
Mr W has shown he paid £559.72 to hire a car from 10 May 2022 to 31 May 2022. And hes 
then shown he paid £1,868.39 to hire a car from 31 May 2022 to 27 June 2022. Mr W 
confirmed he took delivery of a new car on 28 June 2022.
Our investigator thought it wasnt reasonable for Mr W to get these charges back. Mr W said 
he was told on the phone that VWFS would cover these costs.
Ive listened to the phone call in question here. Our investigator said he didnt think Mr W 
was given the impression the cost of a hire car would be covered. But, I disagree here. On 
the phone, when discussing the complaint the representative from VWFS said:
Well try to keep you mobile  if we cant well look at giving compensation for not having 
vehicle and inconvenience it has caused you
Later in the conversation Mr W said:
As long as somebody pays for me to be mobile I dont mind
And VWFS representative replied:
Yeah of course
So, I think on balance Mr W was given the impression VWFS would cover the cost of 
keeping him mobile. More importantly, given this situation arose from VWFS supplying Mr W 
with a car not of satisfactory quality, I dont think its reasonable hes left out of pocket here.
I have considered whether Mr W mitigated any losses here  for instance by renting a 
cheaper car or using a cheaper company. But, from what Mr W said, the initial rental was set 
up by the dealer. And the car was the same make and model as Mr W had under the 
agreement. The second rental was taken with the same company for the same type of car. 
So, overall I think Mr W acted reasonably here.
That being said, I know Mr W wants the full cost of the hire cars to be reimbursed. As Ive 
already said, I dont think its reasonable for Mr W to pay towards the agreement past the 
point the car broke down. But, had nothing gone wrong, Mr W wouldve still been paying out for a car. 
Giving him the full cost of the hire cars back, in addition to him not paying towards the 
agreement, would put Mr W in a better position than he wouldve been had nothing gone 
wrong  as he effectively wouldnt be paying anything for this period. This betterment doesnt 
feel reasonable to me. So, VWFS should reimburse him the cost of these hire cars, but it can 
retain from this amount the pro rata amount that Mr W was due to pay under the agreement 
for the period in question.
Insurance premiums
Mr W believes he should get the insurance premiums for the car reimbursed from the time 
the breakdown happened. Our investigator didnt think this was reasonable. 
I agree in part here. I again need to consider that giving Mr W the full cost of the insurance 
back would put him in a better position than he wouldve been had nothing gone wrong  as 
he was always going to pay out for this. And I dont think its unreasonable for him to insure 
the car while the complaint was ongoing  particularly as it was being kept at his house. 
But, that being said, had nothing gone wrong Mr W wouldnt have had to cover the cost of 
insuring two cars  which presumably he did once he took delivery of his new car on 28 June 
2022. 
I appreciate there was some disagreement over the collection of the car. But I think its fair to 
say in the later part of this period Mr W was very keen for this to be collected and I can see 
there was a delay.
Thinking about things in the round here, I think its reasonable that Mr W is reimbursed the 
cost of insuring the car under this agreement from the point he took delivery of his new car 
until the point this car was collected.
Mr W hasnt evidenced this cost yet, so VWFS will only need to pay this out on production of 
proof of premiums paid, such as an insurance schedule or similar.
Transport cost
Mr W has requested that he is reimbursed for the cost of transporting the car from the dealer 
to his house following the breakdown.
Ive carefully considered this. But, it appears this was Mr Ws decision. I cant see that he 
needed to do this, nor that VWFS asked him to.
It follows I dont think its reasonable this is reimbursed.
Distress and inconvenience
I think it must have been frustrating for Mr W to have to deal with the issues the car had. And 
hes had to take time out to get it repaired. I can also see that breaking down on a busy road 
in the way he described must have been very distressing for Mr W.
Thinking about all of this, I agree with VWFS here that £450 is fair to reflect what happened.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or information.
VWFS didnt respond.Mr W came back and initially said he was happy with the decision. But, he then asked to be 
reimbursed for his costs of preparing to take the case to court. And he sent some further 
information in about the cost of moving the car to his house and said this should be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W said in his response to my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr W was getting frustrated with the time it was taking to resolve his case. But, 
our service is a free alternative to the courts. Any costs hes paid towards a court were his 
choice to make. So, I dont think VWFS needs to reimburse these.
Ive also carefully considered what Mr W said about moving the car to his house. But, on 
balance, I still think this was a cost he couldve mitigated. So, again, I dont think this should 
be reimbursed.
Ive thought about all of the other information and evidence again. Having done so, I still 
think this complaint should be upheld. This is for the same reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Volkswagen
Financial Services (UK) Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Treat the agreement as though the car was rejected on 7 May 2022 with nothing 
further to pay
Refund Mr W any repayments made to the agreement since this point*
Refund Mr W 10% of all repayments made towards the agreement*
Refund Mr W a pro rata proportion of the initial rental to reflect the car being rejected 
on 7 May 2022*
Reimburse Mr W for the cost of the hire cars - £559.72 from 18 May 2022 and 
£1,868.39 from 31 May 2022* **
Reimburse Mr W the pro rata cost of insuring this car from 28 June 2022 until it was 
collected* ***
Pay Mr W £450 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any negative information about this agreement from Mr Ws credit file
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If VWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
** VWFS can retain from these amounts the pro rata cost of the monthly repayments for this 
period that wouldve been due under this agreement
*** Only on production of proof of premium by Mr W such as a valid insurance scheduleUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman