DRN-2718792
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had a credit account with Nationwide. In 2017, Mr M fell behind with the repayments on 
the account. In April 2018, with the account still in arrears, Nationwide sent a Notice of 
Default to Mr M, and the account was subsequently defaulted by Nationwide in June 2018.
Mr M wasnt happy about this, especially given that he cleared the arrears on the account in 
full shortly after the default was applied. So, he made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they felt that they had applied the default to Mr 
Ms account appropriately, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in recording the default on Mr Ms credit file, so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr M quoted guidance from the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and 
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, as follows:
If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the 
time you are 6 months in arrears.
While the above quotation is only guidance, it would be expected by this service that a 
business that was considering applying a default to a customers credit file would do so with 
the above guidance in mind.
Having reviewed the circumstances of this complaint, I think that Nationwide have done that 
here. And I say this because Mr M was in arrears on his account for more than three 
months, and because Nationwide did try to contact Mr M on several occasions to arrange for 
the arrears to be repaid, before the option of applying a default was considered.
For instance, I can see that Nationwide spoke with Mr M in December 2017 and again in 
January 2018, by which time the account was three months in arrears. Nationwide record 
that Mr M agreed to pay the minimum payment for January and February 2018. However, no 
payment was received from Mr M, and Nationwide contacted Mr M again in February, at 
which time Mr M promised to pay off the remaining balance of the loan, including all the 
arrears, within four weeks. The scheduled end date of the loan repayment term was in 
February 2018.
Unfortunately, Mr M didnt make the payments that he had said he would, and so Nationwide 
issues a Notice of Default to Mr M in April. The Notice of Default gave Mr M until early May 
to clear the outstanding balance in full 2018  although Mr M contends that he never 
received this letter.
But Mr M didnt repay the balance by the deadline given in the Notice of Default, and so Im 
satisfied that Nationwide were entitled to consider that the relationship between themselves 
and Mr M had broken down to the degree that the recording of a default on Mr Ms credit file 
wasnt unreasonable. And, while I acknowledge that Mr M did contact Nationwide in mid-May 
to arrange a repayment plan, the deadline given to repay the balance on the Notice of 
Default had already passed.
Mr M contends that he didnt receive the Notice of Default that Nationwide sent to him, and 
that Nationwide sent the notice to an incorrect address. But Nationwide have been able to 
demonstrate that the Notice of Default was sent, and that it was sent to the correct address, 
and while Nationwide did hold an alternative address for Mr M previously, its clear from the 
evidence provided by Nationwide that Mr Ms address was updated on their systems to the 
correct address in 2016, and so before the Notice of Default was sent to Mr M in April 2018. 
So, Im satisfied both that the Notice of Default was sent, and that it was sent to the correct 
address.
However, its acknowledged that Mr M may not have received the Notice of Default and 
given that there is no requirement for letters of this type to be sent by any form of recorded 
delivery, it cant be confirmed that the letter was delivered to Mr Ms address. But this service 
wouldnt censure Nationwide for the non-delivery of a sent letter, because this is something 
over which Nationwide have no control. And generally speaking - sent letters are received. 
Also, given the length of time that Mr Ms account had been in arrears, its reasonable to 
contend that Mr M should have been aware of the ongoing potential consequences of 
continuing non-payment, including that default proceedings might be commenced by 
Nationwide. 
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Nationwide have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly here, and so I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that 
Mr M was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, considering everything I have 
explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman