DRN-3519872
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) during and 
after his annual boiler service.
What happened
Mr D had HomeCare Two insurance with BG for his boiler, control and central heating. The 
cover included an annual boiler service.
After BG serviced his boiler, Mr D asked why it hadnt removed and cleaned a burner or the 
boiler housing as it had done in previous years. He also asked several technical questions 
about the outcome of the service. BG said the burners didnt need to be removed and 
cleaned as part of the service and it responded to the rest of his technical questions.
Mr D complained to BG. He said it hadnt provided a full enough response to his questions 
and he didnt think the service shouldve been any different to that performed in previous 
years unless it had advised him of the change beforehand.
After lengthy email exchanges, BG visited Mr D with a safety engineer to go through his 
concerns. However, Mr D remained unhappy with BGs responses and brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She thought BG had provided reasonable 
responses to his questions and she didnt identify any evidence that BG had failed to 
complete the boiler service properly.
Mr D didnt agree, and he repeated his complaint about the service BG provided.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
There are two key issues to Mr Ds complaint: that BG failed to complete the boiler service to 
the same standard as previous years; and that it failed to respond appropriately to his 
subsequent questions about the service.
Boiler service
Mr D doesnt think BG carried out the boiler service properly because it didnt do the same 
things it had done in previous years. BG said it completed the service in line with the 
expected Annual Safety Checks and in line with its servicing procedure.
Looking at the policy, it defines an annual service as:
 
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or 
central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and 
regulations. 
Under the section titled General Conditions, the policy provides the following information 
about what BG will do during an annual service visit:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or 
clean it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve 
looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
With specific reference to Mr Ds dissatisfaction that BG failed to clean the burner or boiler 
housing, the policy only says BG will clean parts of the boiler if necessary following testing. 
BG explained this to Mr D when it said the tests showed cleaning wasnt required. While BG 
may have cleaned parts of the boiler in the past, I cant fairly say that means it must clean 
those same parts on every occasion. From the evidence provided by both Mr D and BG, Im 
satisfied that BG completed the service in line with the policy.
I know Mr D had further concerns about other aspects of safety raised during BGs visit, 
such as the ventilation and ignition, and he says BG threatened to cancel his policy. Looking 
again at the policy, it says:
Safety advice
From time to time, we may tell you that your boiler, appliance or system needs 
permanent repairs or improvements that arent covered by your agreement to keep 
working safely. For example, if your ventilation doesnt meet current gas safety 
regulations. If you dont follow this advice, itll affect certain parts of your cover  but 
your agreement will keep running until you or we change or cancel it.I think the conditions are clear and that by telling Mr D about aspects of his system which 
werent up to current standards, BG met its obligations under the policy.
In respect of the boiler service, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that BG failed to 
carry it out in line with the policy. Therefore, Im satisfied that BGs actions were fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Written responses
Mr D doesnt think BG provided appropriate or full written responses to his concerns. BG 
said it answered everything and carried out another visit to reassure Mr D.
Ive looked at the questions and concerns Mr D sent to BG. The communication trail is 
extensive, so I wont repeat everything here. I see Mr D asked several questions to begin 
with and each time BG replied he raised further questions about its answers. Having 
considered BGs responses, I cant agree with Mr D that it failed to answer his questions. 
Some were of a technical nature and I understand the questions were passed to the 
appropriate teams within BG for a response. But I havent seen anything in the responses to 
indicate that BG tried to avoid answering Mr Ds questions.
While he says it was reluctant to put anything in writing, the evidence tells me otherwise. As 
Ive said, the communication trail is extensive so it would be unfair of me to conclude that BG 
wouldnt commit to written responses.
As the responses and further questions became increasingly long, BG arranged a visit to Mr 
D with a safety officer. This was to respond directly to issues which BG found it difficult to 
comment on without seeing the parts of Mr Ds system to which he referred. I think it was 
helpful for BG to arrange the visit and the evidence tells me BG treated Mr D fairly.
Overall, the evidence shows that BG completed the annual boiler service in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, and that it responded fairly and reasonably in writing to Mr Ds 
questions. While he remains unhappy with the responses, I see no reason to ask BG to do 
any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman