DRN-2329928
The complaint
Mr M complains that Elderbridge Limited didnt give him enough notice that the base rate it 
uses as a reference point for the interest rate on his loan was changing. 
What happened
At the end of December 2019 Elderbridge sent Mr M a letter which said that from the start of 
January 2020 it would be using the Bank of England Base Rate (Bank Rate) instead of the 
Finance House Base Rate (FHBR) to set the interest rate on his fixed sum loan. Mr M 
complained to Elderbridge that he didnt receive this letter until 3 January and that it should 
have given him more notice of the change. In response, Elderbridge said that, as the FHBR 
stopped being published at the end of December 2019, it was now using the Bank Rate. 
And, as it only has to provide Mr M with notice of a change to the actual interest rate on his 
loan, which had remained the same, its letter about the base rate was purely for information 
purposes. And it went on to say that in view of this it hadnt made a mistake. 
Mr M complained to us. Hes said that Elderbridge should have told him about the change to 
using the Bank Rate sooner because tracking a new base rate affects the way the interest 
on his loan is calculated. He feels it didnt carry out an investigation into why its letter was 
sent late and that it should have done this. And hes unhappy it wouldnt agree to email 
rather than post him its final response letter to his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Elderbridge 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms loan agreement, which allow it to 
change the base rate it uses as a reference for the variation of the interest rate on its loans. 
And she went on to say that, while it has since accepted it could have let Mr M know this 
sooner, he hadnt lost out. So, she didnt think it was fair and reasonable to ask Elderbridge 
to pay compensation. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said under the terms of his loan Elderbridge are required to inform him 
earlier than within four days that it is going to use another base rate. And  because it didnt, 
he wasnt able to question it. He says he still doesnt know why he wasnt told sooner and we 
have accepted it was sent out late, but have not pressed for the root cause. He thinks 
Elderbridge should be penalised for the decision to send out the information too late. Hes 
also said we havent looked at the root cause on why delays in answering the complaint at 
various stages occurred. 
As Mr M doesnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr Ms loan agreement required it to give him more 
than four days-notice that it was going to refer the variation in its interest rates to another 
base rate. The terms and conditions simply say at point 8 that that it may from time to time 
vary its interest rate. And it may increase or reduce it to reflect a change which has occurred 
or it might reasonably expect to occur in interest rates generally. It then goes on to say that 
the interest rate on Mr Ms account will not vary by more than twice the variation in the FHBR 
in a 12 month period. The term then goes on to say if the Finance and Leasing Association 
ceases to publish the FHBR Elderbridge may refer the variation in its interest rate to any 
other base rate which in its reasonable opinion best matches that rate. This term does not 
say it will inform Mr M of this change in the base rate it is using. Condition 9 of Mr Ms loan 
agreement then says if there is a variation of the interest rate under condition 8, Elderbridge 
may by notice to Mr M vary the amount of monthly payments he will make.
So, neither of these conditions say anything about Elderbridge having to inform Mr M about 
a change in the base rate it is using as a reference point and they actually say nothing about 
Elderbridge having to inform him of a change in the actual interest rate on his loan. What 
they actually require Elderbridge to do is give Mr M notice of a change in his monthly 
payment. And there is no set notice period for this. 
This all means that, as there was no change in Mr Ms payment as a result of Elderbridge 
changing to using the Bank Rate as a reference point for any variation of its interest rate, 
technically it didnt need to send Mr M any sort of notice. 
All this having been said, I do think that, because it would be good customer service to do 
so, Elderbridge should have told Mr M it was changing its reference point for the variation of 
its interest rate to the Bank Rate. And I think it should have made sure Mr M had some time 
to question it if he was worried about how it might affect his loan payments. 
I can see Mr Ms point that we should have investigated why Elderbridge didnt do this. 
However, I dont think investigating this is necessary for me to fulfil my role and decide the 
fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms complaint. I say this because the late notice of the 
change to using the Bank Rate as a reference point made no difference to Mr M financially. 
It understandably frustrated him that he wasnt told sooner and I think Elderbridge should 
have apologised for not telling him sooner, rather than simply saying it hadnt made a 
mistake. But I dont think it needed to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
its poor customer service caused. And I dont think the service was poor enough to warrant 
me directing Elderbridge to apologise, as it has now accepted it should have told Mr M 
sooner. This means I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms complaint is for me 
not to require Elderbridge to take any further action.   
I appreciate Mr M is also unhappy about the way Elderbridge handled his complaint, but our 
rules do not allow me to look into specifically how a business handled a complaint, so I am 
not going to comment on this. 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont require Elderbridge Limited to 
take any further action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman