DRN-2899478
The complaint
Mr A complains about problems relating to his business account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr A carried out a safeguard review on HSBCs website. In April 2020 Mr
A was contacted by HSBC and advised the deadline for the review had been extended but
when he called he was told the information required had been received.
At the end of May 2020 HSBC called and asked Mr A to provide private information to verify
his identity. Mr A called HSBC back and spoke with the Safeguard review team. Mr A was
told that his business account was set up as a partnership account but he was a sole
trader. Mr A was told the existing account would need to be closed and a replacement
opened. Mr A explained that the account was set up whilst his business was a partnership
but following the death of his father around 15 years earlier he operated as a sole trader. Mr
A pointed out HSBC had been notified shortly after his father passed away.
Mr A complained and HSBC apologised that it had failed to take appropriate action when he
notified it he was operating as a sole trader. HSBC paid Mr A £100 but still said he would
need to close his existing account and reopen a new business current account.
HSBC sent another Safeguard review letter at the end of July 2020. After Mr A went back to
HSBC it sent him another final response at the beginning of August 2020. HSBC paid Mr A a
further £80 to apologise for the inconvenience caused. HSBCs letter incorrectly said that Mr
As business operated as a limited company and reiterated that his account would need to
be closed.
In November 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr A again and said it intended to close his business
account in the middle of January 2021 and again asked him to complete a Safeguard review
online.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In February
2021, HSBC relooked at Mr As business account and took the decision to leave it open.
HSBC offered Mr A a further £70 to apologise for the trouble and upset caused. Our
investigator thought the total award of £250 was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mr A
asked to appeal, and said he felt the level of compensation offered didnt reflect the number
of issues hed encountered or the inconvenience caused. As Mr A asked to appeal, his
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A has become frustrated with the way HSBC has handled the
Safeguard review and being told his business account, which has been open for many
years, would close. I agree with Mr A that £250 doesnt fairly reflect the impact of the way
HSBC has handled the situation. Ive been reasonably brief above as a lot happened during
the course of around a year. I understand Mr A found it difficult to discuss his Safeguard
review and business account over the phone with HSBC during this time. And I can see that,
despite completing the Safeguard review within the initial timescale given by HSBC, Mr A
has been repeatedly contacted and asked to go through the process again.
Im also satisfied Mr A notified HSBC when his father (and business partner) passed away
around 15 years ago so I can understand his surprise and concern at being told his account
would have to be closed and a new one opened. I can also see that HSBC told Mr A that the
reason he needed to close the account was because he was operating as a limited company
which is wrong, and contrary to both the information it had on file about his business and the
details provided in his Safeguard review.
Overall, I agree that the service, information and contact Mr A has received over a period of
around a year was poor. And I can see how much time and effort Mr A, who has remained
engaged with HSBC throughout, has spent trying to resolve matters. I think its reasonable to
say that any business owner that is told their longstanding account will be closed for reasons
that are unclear will quite reasonably find the experience distressing.
I dont agree that £250 fairly reflects the overall impact of the way HSBC has handled the
situation. Whilst Im please HSBC ultimately agreed to leave the business account open, I
think a figure of £400 more fairly reflects what happened and the level of trouble and upset
caused to Mr A. Unless I receive any new information that changes my mind, I intend to
uphold Mr As complaint and tell HSBC to increase the award.  
In my provisional decision I asked Mr A and HSBC to send me any additional points or 
information they wanted me to take into account. HSBC didnt provide any new information. 
Mr A responded and said he felt the level of compensation should be higher. Mr A also 
pointed out HSBC had made mistakes about the status of his business in its final response. 
Mr A has also told us the issue appears to be unresolved as HSBC continue to send him 
requests for information required to complete a safeguarding review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently asked our investigator to contact HSBC and advised that, within four weeks of 
acceptance, it should ensure Mr As business account is amended to reflect he is operating 
as a sole trader instead of a partnership. In addition, HSBC should contact Mr A to arrange a 
convenient time to complete any remaining safeguard checks required. 
I understand Mr A feels the £400 award should be higher and understand he has been 
inconvenienced by the way HSBC has administered his account. But I remain of the view 
that £400 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised in this case and is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint. I havent been persuaded to increase the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle as follows: - Pay Mr A a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
- Within four weeks of acceptance, amend Mr As business account to reflect hes a 
sole trader instead of a partnership
- Within four weeks of acceptance, contact Mr A to arrange a convenient time to any 
remaining safeguard checks required 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman