DRN-3279620
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Vitality Life Limited stopped making payments to her following a
successful claim on her income protection insurance policy.
Ms O is also unhappy:
- that her ex-partner wasnt removed from the policy promptly after shed requested
this;
- with the way in which her claim was handled;
- that Vitality continued to collect monthly premiums under the policy after her claim
had been accepted, even though she had the benefit of premium waiver.
What happened
Ms O became absent from work at the end of January 2019 with stress and depression.
She had the benefit of an income protection insurance (the policy) which formed part of a
wider insurance plan (the plan). The policy can pay out a set amount each month if Ms O
was unable to work after three months (the deferred period).
A claim was made on the policy which was ultimately accepted by Vitality. It ended up
paying the monthly benefit from the end of April 2019 to the end of February 2020.
Vitality deemed that Ms O was no longer incapacitated as per the policy definition from the
end of February 2020. It felt that Ms O was able to undertake the material and substantial
duties of the role she was doing before the deferred period began. But, in line with the policy
terms, it did pay Ms O a return to work benefit (representing 50% and 25% of the monthly
benefit) for March and April 2020 respectively.
Ms O didnt think that was fair. She said her mood had deteriorated in February 2020 and
shed experienced suicidal thoughts.
She complained to Vitality, but it maintained its position. Vitality did say it would reconsider
its decision to stop paying the policy benefit if Ms O could provide it with objective medical
evidence of her inability to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation.
Ms O subsequently referred her complaint to our Service. Our investigator looked into what
happened and she upheld Ms Os complaint. As Vitality had initially accepted the claim, she
explained that it was for Vitality to show that Ms O was no longer incapacitated. Based on
everything shed seen; our investigator didnt think Vitality had been able to establish that.
She recommended that Vitality pay the claim backdated to the end of February 2020
together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum, from the date each payment was
due, to the date of settlement.
She also recommended Vitality pay £600 compensation to Ms O to reflect the distress and
inconvenience shed experienced due to:
- her claim being unfairly terminated;
- the way in which her claim was handled from September 2019;
- how it dealt with the request to remove her ex-partner from the policy; and
- not applying the premium waiver correctly  meaning that Ms O was unnecessarily
out of pocket each month.
Our investigator also asked Vitality to refund Ms O the portion of the premiums shed paid for
her ex-partner being on the policy going back to January 2019.
Vitality didnt agree with the claims decision being reversed. However, it did say it would
request and review Ms Os medical records from February 2020.
Upon receipt of Ms Os medical records, for the period December 2019 to April 2020, Vitality
confirmed that it would pay the claim in full until the end of April 2020. It also said it would be
prepared to request up to date medical records from Ms Os GP from April 2020. And once
received and reviewed, it would consider paying an ongoing benefit to Ms O under the policy
if the claim was medically valid. However, it said that if the updated medical records reflected
that Ms O had sufficiently recovered to enable her to return to work, no further benefit would
be paid. It also said that if the medical records were inadequate or too heavily redacted to
make a decision, it would arrange for an independent medical examination.
Our investigator considered Vitalitys revised position but didnt think it was fair in the
circumstances. She confirmed that she stood by her initial recommendations.
Vitality didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh
to decide. I issued my provisional decision in December 2021 explaining in a bit more detail 
why I was also intending to uphold the majority of Ms Os complaint. An extract of which is 
set out below:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has
set out rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Terminating Ms Os claim
When making a claim, its for Ms O to demonstrate that she met the definition of incapacity
and Ms O was able to do that.
Under the policy, incapacity is defined as:
illness or injury makes you unable to perform the material and substantial duties of
your own occupation. These are the duties that are normally needed to do your own
occupation and that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by your or your
employer.
As Vitality terminated the claim, its for it to show that Ms O no longer met the definition of
incapacity, based on medical evidence.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
whether Vitality reasonably terminated Ms Os claim when it did. And having done so, I dont
think it has acted fairly. Ill explain why.Towards the start of February 2020, Ms O reported that shed started psychotherapy and
that her mental health had deteriorated since a recent operation and breakdown in her
relationship with a family member.
In April 2020, Ms O said shed been allocated 20 sessions of therapy which was due to
begin the following week; to explore the impact her ex-partners abusive behaviour had on
her. Its also reflected that she had started to investigate doing some work on a voluntary
basis and had registered to do some ad hoc work. Its also reflected that she experienced a
dip in mood in February 2020 and the reasons for this.
Vitality interpreted Ms Os comments about looking into the option of voluntary work and
registering for ad hoc work to mean that she was no longer incapacitated. It took the
decision to stop paying the full monthly benefit with effect of the end of February 2020.This
decision was taken without requesting up to date medical information from Ms Os GP or
other medical specialists  such as the psychologist shed been seeing prior to the
emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic.
I dont think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im
persuaded by reasons Ms Os put forward  and which Vitality are aware of from her letter to
it dated early July 2020 - explaining why shed registered as a locum and was looking for
voluntary work. And the reasons why voluntary work could help build her resilience and
confidence.
Without any further medical evidence in support of its position, Im not persuaded that what
Ms O told Vitalitys representative in April 2020 was enough to reasonably conclude that she
was now able to perform the material and substantial duties of her own occupation.
Vitality has now more recently accepted that the GP notes covering the period December
2019 and April 2020 support that Ms O remained incapacitated during this period. And its
now agreed to pay the monthly benefit, in full, until at least the end of April 2020.
So, I think its likely that had Vitality obtained those GP notes around April 2020 as it
reasonably ought to have done - when reassessing the claim - it wouldnt have stopped
paying the full monthly benefit with effect of the end of February 2020.
Vitality has also recently said that it would consider paying the full monthly benefit beyond
the end of April 2020, if Ms Os medical records from that date support her being
incapacitated.
But Im not persuaded thats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Ms Os concerns in the
circumstances of this complaint. As Ive said, Im satisfied that Vitality ought reasonably to
have obtained Ms Os medical records at the time in order to fairly assess whether she
continued to meet the policy definition of incapacity  not 18 months later.
Its also said that if the medical records form the time arent determinative it will arrange an
independent medical assessment to report on Ms Os ability to carry out her role as of April
2020.
Ive considered whether there would be value in me directing the parties to instruct an
independent medical expert (IME) to report on Ms Os functional ability and whether, in their
medical opinion, she was able to carry out the material and substantial duties of her own
occupation then. But Im conscious that over 18 months has passed since then. And in the
circumstances, Im not persuaded that an IME assessment is likely to be helpful in
determining Ms Os functional ability in April 2020. Given the passage of time shes likely tobe disadvantaged in terms of providing evidence about her functional capacity over such a
long period, particularly given that this will be retrospective, and she wont have had the
same level of monitoring/input that she wouldve had if her claim was active.
Further, as Ive said above, its for Vitality to show that Ms O no longer met the definition of
incapacity when terminating the claim. Its not for Ms O to show that she continued to do so.
Vitality now accepts that Ms O continued to be incapacitated, at least up to the end of April
2020, so it was wasnt fair and reasonable to stop paying the full benefit when it did.
In such circumstances, and given the time that has passed, I dont think its fair and
reasonable for Vitality to now retrospectively request medical information that was available
at the time to assess whether it shouldve terminated the claim or not.
So, I intend to find that Vitality should pay the full monthly benefit back to the end of
February 2020. And as Ms O says she has yet to return to work, I think Vitality should
continue to pay the claim to date. Thats not to say that Vitality cant review the claim going
forwards. Its able to do so under the terms of the policy.
Removing the joint policyholder from the plan
Ive listened to the call recording Ms O had with Vitalitys representative on 12 December
2018. She did say that she and her partner (the joint policyholder at the time of the call) had
separated and that she wanted to know whether he could be removed from the policy. Ms O
was told that her ex-partner would have to either call or email Vitality to request that he be
removed.
As her ex-partner was a joint policyholder, I dont think that was unreasonable in the
circumstances. Ms O didnt disclose during that call any reason why that would be difficult or
that she had limited contact with him.
Ive also listened to a recording of a call between Vitality and a third party on behalf of Ms O
dated 27 February 2019. Vitalitys representative is asked whether the joint policy could be
split between Ms O and her ex-partner or whether the policy would need to be cancelled and
a new plan applied for. The third party was told that the plan couldnt be split, and no
mention is made of Ms Os ex-partner being abusive.
Having heard nothing further from or on behalf of Ms O, or Ms Os ex-partner, I dont think
Vitality acted unreasonably in the circumstances by not removing him from the plan in
December 2018 or early 2019.
However, I can see that Ms O did notify Vitality of the reason why she wanted to remove her
ex-partner from the plan in July 2020. And as result, Vitality contacted him directly to obtain
his authority to facilitate that. For the reasons set out above, I dont think it was under any
obligation to do that before receiving Ms Os email in July 2020.
Having obtained his authority, Vitality confirmed to Ms O that her ex-partner was now
removed from the plan. However, despite those reassurances that didnt happen, and Ms O
continued to pay an increased premium as both she and her ex-partner remained joint
policyholders. Vitality apologised for this in mid-September 2020 and assured Ms O that it
would reimburse her for the additional premium she paid as a result of him being on the
policy going back to 24 August 2020, when Vitality said hed been removed.
Claim handling and Premium Waiver
Ms O had the benefit of premium waiver cover under the plan. It says: that if you becomeincapacitated, we stop charging the plan premium for your plan. And that Vitality: will start
waiving your plan premium on the day after your deferred period ends.
Ms Os claim was accepted in October 2019. The claim was backdated to the end of April
2019. But after complaining to Vitality that it was collecting premiums from her, she received
a partial refund to reflect nine months of premium payments. However, based on what Ive
seen to date, Im satisfied that shed been paying 12 months of premiums by that stage.
I accept that by continuing to collect the monthly premium at times when this shouldve been
covered by Vitality wouldve caused unnecessary worry for Ms O. Particularly as she was
already feeling depressed, as evidenced by her medical records.
Im also satisfied that her worry and distress wouldve been exacerbated by Vitality:
- not paying the monthly benefit due to Ms O for September 2019 until the end of
December 2019 despite Ms O providing her pay slip on 3 October 2019.
- overlooking to pay the monthly benefit due for December 2019 until August 2020,
despite Ms O asking about this payment on a number of occasions.
Ms O also notified Vitality that she was struggling financially and reliant on charitable help
due to the position she found herself in. Ive got no reason to doubt what she says about
that.
Ms O is unhappy about the delay in initially accepting her claim. However, Vitality
investigated this complaint and issued a final response letter in mid-September 2019.
Ms O didnt bring her complaint to our Service until a year later in September 2020. Under
the rules that govern our Service, any complaint should be raised within six months from the
date of the final response unless there are exceptional circumstances as to why it couldnt
be brought within the stipulated timeframe. As Ms O continued to communicate with Vitality
during the six months after the final response dated September 2019, I dont think there are
any exceptional circumstances here. However, I can consider whats happened since
September 2019.
Having considered the way in which her claim was handled since September 2019, Im
satisfied that Vitality shouldve done better overall. And if it had done so, Im satisfied Ms O
wouldve been spared a great deal of unnecessary inconvenience and upset.
I can see that she has had to unnecessarily contact Vitality on several occasions since
September 2019, including:
- reminding it of information shed already provided to Vitality when its requested such
information again (resulting in delayed payments of the monthly benefit);
- querying why Vitality wasnt covering her premiums despite having the benefit of
premium waiver;
- contacting Vitality for updates when weeks went past without it providing any
substantive updates about whether it would be paying certain monthly benefits;
- the non-payment of the benefit she was entitled to for December 2019.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision and to provide any further 
information or comments for me to consider. Ms O had nothing further to add although she 
has confirmed that she hasnt returned to work. Vitality didnt agree. In summary it said:My provisional decision was weighted heavily in favour of Ms O and her self-reporting 
when theres no clinical evidence to support ongoing incapacity from her role.
It accepts incapacity shouldve been supported beyond February 2020. But its 
unreasonable to expect Vitality to consider the claim valid to date because Ms O 
hasnt returned to work. Its submitted that this was her choice/circumstantial rather 
than as a result of a medical condition. 
Although reluctant to agree to reinstate the claim and paying the benefit to date, it 
agreed that Ms O needed to be independently assessed.
Vitality also provided an overview of the medical information received to date and a clinical 
opinion from a Chief Medical Officer who it says is a Consultant Psychiatrist (the CMO). 
In light of the CMOs overview and conclusions, I requested the medical records Vitality had 
obtained for Ms O since April 2020. And its provided these to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the further information provided by Vitality in response to my provisional 
decision. And having done so, my thoughts remain the same and I partially uphold Ms Os 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Although theres reference to Ms Os mental health improving after April 2020, there 
is also reference to her mental health deteriorating. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, once Ms O has established that she meets the policy definition of being 
incapacitated, and the claim is accepted, its for Vitality to show that she no longer 
meets that definition. It now accepts that she was incapacitated to (at least) April 
2020, rather than February 2020, when it initially concluded. The medical evidence 
Ive been provided with from April 2020 (including the CMOs report) doesnt 
persuade me that Ms O was no longer incapacitated and able to perform the material 
and substantial duties of her own occupation.
Ms O may not have been seeing her GP frequently after April 2020. But shed left her 
job by then and so wasnt required to obtain a regular GP certificate, signing her off 
work. And I wouldnt necessarily expect Ms O to need to regularly see her GP. 
Particularly as theres reference to her regularly being prescribed with anti-
depressant medication and attending therapy since April 2020. Im also conscious 
that the availability of GP appointments was impacted during various stages of the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
I remain satisfied that Vitality ought reasonably to have obtained, and regularly 
reviewed, Ms Os medical records from February 2020 at the time, rather than much 
later, in order to fairly assess whether she continued to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. 
In this particular case, rather than terminate the claim when it did, Im satisfied that 
Vitality ought reasonably to have obtained an Independent Medical Assessment 
(IMA) from a suitable medical expert in early 2020 to assess Ms O against the policy definition of incapacity if they wanted to review the claim. I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to direct the parties to instruct an independent medical expert 
(IME) to retrospectively report on Ms Os functional ability and whether, in their 
medical opinion, she was able to carry out the material and substantial duties of her 
own occupation from April 2020. Thats because over 18 months have passed since 
then. And in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that a retrospective IME 
assessment is likely to be helpful in determining Ms Os functional ability in April 
2020. Given the passage of time shes likely to be disadvantaged in terms of 
providing evidence about her functional capacity over such a long period, particularly 
given that this will be retrospective, and she wont have had the same level of 
monitoring/input that she wouldve had if her claim was active. 
For these reasons, and those in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out 
above), I partially uphold Ms Os complaint.  
Vitality has said that if my final decision was along the same lines as my provisional 
decision, it would make the payment to Ms O as directed but will immediately arrange an 
IMA. Vitality are free to review the claim going forwards and its able to do so under the 
terms of the policy.
Putting things right
I direct Vitality to do the following:
- pay the full benefit to Ms O for March and April 2020 less the reduced benefit it paid
to Ms O for these two months. It should also pay simple interest at 8% per annum on
the difference between what Ms O did receive for those two months and what she
shouldve received. Interest is payable from the end of March 2020 and April 2020 to
the date on which full payment is made.
- continue to pay the claim from the end of April 2020 to the date Ms O accepts any
final decision. Interest should be added to the backdated payments at the rate of 8%
per annum, from the date each monthly benefit was due to the date of settlement.
- pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on the monthly benefit which was
due to Ms O in September 2019 but wasnt authorised until mid-December 2019.
Interest should be paid from 3 October 2019 (the date Ms O sent Vitality her pay slip
for September 2019) to the date that monthly payment was eventually made.
- pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on the monthly benefit which was
due to Ms O in December 2019 but wasnt paid to her until around August 2020.
Interest should be paid from the end of December 2019 to the date that monthly
payment was eventually made.
- pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on the monthly premiums Ms O paid
for the policy from the end of April 2019 to the date on which Ms O received a partial
refund of premiums shed paid whilst incapacitated under the policy (at the end of
April 2020). Interest should be paid from the date on which each monthly premium
was collected from her during that period to the date on which Vitality reimbursed her
for the premiums paid for each of those months.
- reimburse Ms O for the premiums paid for the policy from May 2020 to the date on
which Ms O accepts any final decision. Simple interest should also be added at the
rate of 8% per annum. Interest should be paid from the date on which each of thosepremiums were collected from Ms O to the date on which she is reimbursed them.
- taking into account any monthly premium Vitality has since covered as a result of the
premium waiver benefit, pay Ms O the portion of the premiums shed paid for her ex-partner
being on the policy from 24 August 2020 to the date on which the plan was
renewed in February 2021 or the date on which her monthly premium reduced as a
result of her ex-partner being removed from the plan. Simple interest should also be paid at 
a rate of 8% per annum on the difference between the premium she paid for the policy for 
each month during that period and what she ought to have paid. Interest should be 
calculated from the date on which each premium was paid to the date on which Vitality 
makes payment to Ms O.
- pay Ms O £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Vitality caused her
as a result of what it did wrong here (to include the compensatory amount of £150
Vitality has already offered Ms O).
I also direct Vitality to provide Ms O with a written breakdown of all interest calculations set
out above within 21 days from the date on which it makes payment to her.
And if Vitality considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
any interest paid, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should also give her a
certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Ms O can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Os complaint and direct Vitality Life Limited to put things right by doing
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman