DRN-3672451
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays and poor service when he ported his mortgage with Santander 
UK PLC. He says the delays put his sale and purchase chain at risk and caused him to be 
out of pocket. He asks for compensation of £2,000, including a refund of the valuation fee.
What happened
Mr M made a porting application in 2021, and Santander issued a mortgage offer. In October 
2021 Mr M told Santander hed changed solicitors. Mr M says Santander took six weeks to 
re-issue the mortgage offer and send it to the new solicitors. He says this delayed exchange 
and completion. During the delay, his mortgage went onto the standard variable rate costing 
Mr M about £100 in additional interest. 
Santander paid £215 compensation and refunded the £35 transfer fee. Our Investigator said 
this was fair and covered the additional costs due to the delay. Mr M says the £215 was only 
for the delays, and the compensation isnt enough. In addition, he asked for:
A refund of the valuation fee of £435. He said he changed to a product that didnt have a 
valuation fee. He said the mortgage adviser had said shed look into refunding the fee 
but didnt get back to him.
A refund of the account fee, paid when he redeemed the previous mortgage, to make up 
for the stress and inconvenience. 
£100 for the additional interest costs caused by Santanders delays.
£2,000 for the stress and inconvenience, and the number of calls he made chasing 
Santander. He said the sale and purchase chain almost collapsed as everyone was 
waiting on his mortgage offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M told Santander hed changed solicitors on 20 October 2021. Santander accepts it 
made an error when it didnt immediately update its records with the details of Mr Ms new 
solicitor. It issued a new mortgage offer on 26 October 2021 (due to a change in the product 
and loan term), but hadnt updated the solicitors details. It didnt update the solicitors details 
and re-issue a mortgage offer until 26 November 2021.
Mr M says his sale and purchase chain were waiting for his solicitor to receive the mortgage 
offer, and this delayed exchange and completion for six weeks and put the chain at risk. 
Fortunately, Mr Ms sale and purchase didnt fall through. However, his mortgage product 
expired on 2 December 2021 and he was on the SVR until the mortgage completed on 16 
December 2021. He says this cost an additional £100 in interest. 
For me to require Santander to refund the £100 additional interest, Id need to find that its 
error was the reason that completion didnt happen sooner. 
We asked Mr M if he could provide evidence that the delay in issuing a correct mortgage 
offer was the only matter outstanding  that everything was in order through the chain with 
all participants ready and willing to complete earlier. 
Mr M provided email chains with his solicitors, which he says shows the mortgage offer was 
the only thing outstanding. But I dont think the emails show that. Mr M provided an email 
from his solicitor dated 29 November 2021. This responded to a question about what was 
outstanding, saying there were outstanding points related to Mr Ms purchase contract and 
an indemnity. The email didnt say the mortgage offer was outstanding, and the correct 
mortgage offer had been issued on 26 November 2021. The issues related to Mr Ms 
purchase were settled by 30 November 2021, when Mr Ms solicitor emailed him attaching 
several items including a report on his mortgage offer. 
Mr M provided an email from his solicitor dated 1 December 2021 asking about the 
completion date. While Mr M was happy with 10 December 2021, that wasnt possible for 
everyone in the chain and it was agreed that completion would take place on 16 December 
2021. While Santander did make an error with the mortgage offer and this must have been 
frustrating, the available evidence doesnt suggest this was the reason for any delay in 
exchange and completion. As a result, I cant fairly require Santander to compensate Mr M 
for any related costs.
Mr M asks that Santander refunds various fees because of the stress and inconvenience he 
was caused by Santanders error. While Santander did make an error, it doesnt follow that 
this makes it fair and reasonable to require it to refund the fees Mr M paid. 
Mr M had applied to port his mortgage in April 2021. He paid a valuation fee and a property 
valuation was carried out in April 2021. Mr M says this should be refunded as the product he 
ultimately took out didnt require him to pay a valuation fee. I dont think thats fair. The 
property valuation was carried out, so this was a cost that Santander incurred. The mortgage 
offer issued in April 2021 expired in early October 2021, so Mr M had to choose a new 
product. I dont think the fact that this new product didnt include a valuation fee makes it fair 
and reasonable to require Santander to refund the valuation fee that Mr M had agreed to pay 
in April 2021. And Santander says it didnt require a valuation in September 2021 as one had 
been carried out in April 2021. It accepts that when Mr M asked about this it should have 
called him back to confirm whether it would refund the valuation fee.
Santander has already refunded the transfer fee, as gesture of goodwill. I dont think its fair 
to require it to refund the account fee. The account fee was for the provision and general 
administration of the mortgage  a service that Santander did provide. I think a fairer 
approach would be to consider whether the compensation paid by Santander is fair given the 
worry and inconvenience caused by its error.
Mr M says he called Santander on numerous occasions about updating his solicitors details. 
Based on what Mr M has said and Santanders records, Mr M called Santander three or four 
times and Santander called him twice between 20 October 2021 and 26 November 2021. 
These calls werent only about the change of solicitors though  Mr M also chose a new 
mortgage product and changed the term of the mortgage. 
Mr Ms sale and purchase had been going on for some months, and hed had problems with 
the solicitors he was using. That must have been stressful. Theres no suggestion Santander 
was responsible for this. But its error with the solicitors details and the resulting delay would 
have caused Mr M additional stress. And Mr M did have to ask Santander more than once to update solicitors details, which was inconvenient. 
Santanders final response letter says it transferred £250 to Mr Ms account. It says £35 is a 
refund of the transfer fee, as a good will gesture, and £215 is for the delays. The final 
response letter doesnt say if this is or isnt intended to cover the additional interest of £100. 
But, as I said, I need to consider whether the compensation is fair overall, taking everything 
into account. The available evidence doesnt suggest that Santanders error was the reason 
that Mr Ms sale and purchase didnt complete sooner. Overall, I think the compensation paid 
by Santander was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I find the compensation 
paid by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman