DRN-2624048
The complaint
  Mr M complains about logbook loans provided to him by Greenlight Credit Ltd, (trading as 
Varooma) which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
  Varooma provided Mr M with log book loans. These loans were granted on the basis that 
Mr M provided Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr M didnt make his 
loan repayments, Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the 
vehicle. 
After looking at the information in front of me, I can see that Varooma gave Mr M eight log 
book loans. The details are as follows:
Loan Date Amount Months Monthly amount Repayment date
1 19.02.2015 £2000 12 £283.33 09/05/2015
2 09.05.2015 £2900 18 £330.28 30/09/2016
3 14.10.2016 £2000 18 £211.11 03/01/2017
4 03.01.2017 £2900 18 £306.11 30/03/2018
5 30.03.2018 £2900 18 £306.11 04/05/2018
6 08.05.2018 £3000 18 £316.67 30/05/2018
7 06.06.2018 £3300 18 £348.28 06/06/2018
8 29.08.2019 £5500 36 £496.53 08/11/2019
Mr M on several occasions didnt make payment by the scheduled date for at least 
three of the loans. He received one late payment notice charge for loan 1, nine late 
payment and two default notice charges for loan 2, and he received five late payment 
and four default notice charges for loan 4. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract 
from the decision below. I said;
Ive reviewed everything provided by both parties. Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that although the business says it carried out proportionate checks when it 
agreed loan 1, it hasnt been able to demonstrate this. 
Varooma has told our service that it was its policy at the time it approved loan 1, to only keep 
copies of credit checks if an applicants score was low. So, because of this Ive not been 
able to see results from the credit check it says it carried out.
Varooma then says it asked for proof of Mr Ms income and his priority bills. It was 
providing expensive credit for a relatively large amount and there was the potential for 
Mr M losing his car if he ran into difficulty making payments, So I think any affordability 
assessment needed to be more detailed than to only ask for proof of income and priority 
bills, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. Varooma have on this 
occasion not been able to provide enough information on the checks it did carry out at 
the time. So, I havent been able to see in any detail what it did have in front of it when it 
made its decision to lend. So, given the lack of information provided by Varooma, Ive 
looked at the information Mr M has provided to get some understanding of what it might 
have seen through its checks. Mr M has been able to supply two credit reports.
I can see from the credit reports that Mr M had an open short-term loan with a different 
lender at the time he asked to borrow from Varooma. I could also see that he had 
defaulted on a hire purchase agreement. In addition, he had made late payments on a 
credit card. Mr M has also provided our service with details of an IVA (individual 
voluntary arrangement) that was in place at the time loan 1 was arranged too. 
When I consider all of what I have found together, it follows that I think a fair, reasonable 
and proportionate check would more likely than not have indicated that Mr M was 
struggling to manage his finances at that time. Consequently, and having carefully 
considered everything provided, I agree with our investigator that Varooma unfairly 
provided Mr M with loan 1. I dont think it wouldve given loans 2-7 either as these loans. 
His situation didnt improve as he took each loan. He continued to be reliant on the credit 
Varooma were providing him. 
Furthermore, having looked at the overall history and pattern of lending, by the time of 
Loan 3, Varooma ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt 
have provided further loans. 
I say this because
As I have already mentioned, Mr M struggled to make some of his payments on 
Loans 1 and 2. He received one late payment notice charge for loan 1, nine late 
payment and two default notice charges for loan 2;
Mr M was returning for further funds less than a week after repaying Loan 2;
Mr M wasnt making any inroads to the amounts he owed Varooma;
Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Varooma 
over an extended period;
By Loan 3, Mr M had been borrowing from Varooma for around 20 months with 
less than a few days break. 
I think that Mr M has lost out because these loans had the effect of unfairly and 
excessively prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness to Varooma by allowing him to take expensive 
credit over an extended period of time. In addition, the presence of these high cost loans 
on Mr Ms credit file was likely to have had implications for Mr Ms ability to access 
mainstream credit. 
So, with all I have concluded above, I dont think Varooma as a responsible lender should 
have given Mr M loans 2-7.
Mr M repaid his seventh loan in June 2018. He didnt approach Varooma for credit again 
until August 2019, some 14 months later. I think it is fair to conclude at this point that a 
significant period of time had elapsed between the repayment of his previous loan (loan 
7) and his request for an eighth loan. Mr M may well have repaired or improved his credit 
worthiness, or his circumstances may have changed during this time. So, I think it is fair to assess whether Varooma made proportionate checks on this loan with that in mind 
and consider this loan as a new lending relationship between the parties.
That being said, the type of credit and all of the associated costs of this eighth loan 
provided by Varooma again was expensive and the amount he was asking for had 
increased significantly over anything he had asked for with Varooma in his lending 
history. The length of the loan was also extended over three years. And so Varooma 
would have needed to carry out a full review of Mr Ms finances to see if he could afford 
to take on such credit, including verifying any information he gave. 
Our adjudicator felt that Varooma had taken proportionate checks as they could see that 
as well as asking for income and expenditure, they also asked for bank statements and 
reviewed them. I looked at this and could see several screenshots of the bank 
statements provided by Mr M. And like our adjudicator I could see Mr Ms expenditure 
provided. But I couldnt see all of the checks Varooma had carried out at this time and so 
I cant be sure with what it has provided, that it did carry out sufficient checks. So, with all 
that I have concluded up to now, I think Varooma should have asked for more. 
I have looked into what I think Varooma would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks and have had in front of me a copy of Mr Ms credit file. If it had 
carried out proportionate checks, it would have seen that Mr M had recently been in 
arrears with his mortgage, had missed payments on five credit cards and also recently 
defaulted with another short-term lender. I think if it had been presented with this 
information, it would not have provided Mr M with loan 8. So, it follows that I think 
Varooma unfairly provided Mr M with loan 8 also.     
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr M responded and said he was in full agreeance of the decision. 
He has no further comments to make. Varooma let me have some additional comments. 
Varooma says it would like loans 6 and 7 removed from the final decision. It says they 
were cancelled by Mr M within the cancellation period and so as there was no detriment, 
they should be removed. Varooma add that they are willing to remove all loans from Mr 
Ms credit file but would like loans 6 & 7 removed from the refund.
Varooma also says that when I said Mr M didnt approach Varooma for credit again for 14 
months between loan 7 and 8 that this isnt correct. It says he did so in July 2018, but they 
declined his application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The additional information that Varooma has given to us hasnt persuaded me that I 
should change my provisional decision. But I think it right that I should provide some 
further explanation about the matters it has raised.
Varooma say loans 6 and 7 should be removed from my decision as they were cancelled. It 
says its actions in agreeing these loans did not put the customer at any detriment in terms 
of affordability or his credit file. It says it is willing to remove all loans from the credit file but 
would like loans 6 and 7 removed from the refund amount. 
I acknowledge what Varooma has said regarding loans 6 and 7 and the fact they were both 
cancelled by Mr M during the cancellation period. But I am not clear as to why it would want these two loans removed when it calculates the compensation it should give Mr M. 
Either these two loans are not of any detriment to Mr M financially and so it makes no 
difference to the compensation amount. Or if it does, then there is detriment. But in any 
case, I feel they should be included. This is because Varooma did agree to lend to Mr M 
regardless of whether he cancelled the loans or not. So, these two loans do form part of 
the lending relationship between the parties during the period of time that I have looked 
into and my findings are relevant to them. In addition, I am directing Varooma to remove 
these loans from Mr Ms credit file and so they are of detriment to him for this reason. This 
is because any information recorded by this point was likely to be adverse for Mr M, due to 
the nature and volume of loans provided bv Varooma. 
Varooma also as a point of accuracy say it declined a loan application in July 2018. I have 
considered the point it has made, but It doesnt make any difference to the findings or 
outcome of my provisional decision though. So, it now needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for 
Varooma to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given 
these loans. The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. 
Any payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr M was given 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they 
were paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file because of loan 1 
and loan 8;
Remove all information about Loans 3-7 from Mr Ms credit file. By this point, 
information recorded about further borrowing was likely to be adverse.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Greenlight Credit Ltd to pay 
compensation as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman