DRN-3774026
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fully paid out on a sickness 
claim she made against her mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H had made three successful claims for the periods: 22 April  4 July 2019; 16 
September  29 December 2019; and 27 March  13 August 2020. The reason for Mrs H 
being off work during these times was due to anxiety.
Mrs H returned to work in August 2020 but after about a month she became unwell with 
Covid related symptoms and so made a new claim. UKI accepted the claim with the start 
date being 24 September 2020.
However, although Mrs H remained off work sick, UKI decided that the last day of the claim 
should be 10 January 2021. Thats because, based on the medical evidence provided, it 
interpreted the last day of Mrs Hs absence from work due to Covid symptoms as being on 
that date. Because from 11 January 2021 the sick note suggested that the primary cause of 
Mrs Hs incapacity had once again become anxiety.
A previous adjudicator thought that the medical evidence actually showed that the primary 
cause of illness was still Covid related until 27 April 2021, after which time it did return to 
anxiety.
UKI re-visited the evidence and agreed to pay the claim until 27 April 2021. It also paid Mrs 
H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience because it had provided some 
contradictory information about the total number of months her previous anxiety claim had 
paid out for.
Our adjudicator thought that UKI had acted fairly. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Mrs H thinks the claim should pay out until 22 June 2021, which is when she returned to 
work. She also thinks that UKI should pay her £500 for trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here isnt how long Mrs H was off sick for, its why she was off sick.
As mentioned above, Mrs H had previously made successful claims for anxiety and the last 
one of these ended on 13 August 2020.
For accident and sickness cover, the terms of the policy state:
If You are Off Sick for two periods both resulting from the same cause, that are separated 
by 3 months or less, the Insurer will treat as one claim, but will not pay any Monthly Benefit 
for the time in between. Otherwise, if the cause is the same condition and the period of time 
between the two claims is more than 3 months You will not be able to make a second 
Accident and Sickness claim until, You have been back at work for 6 continuous months. If, 
however the cause of You being Off Sick is different from the cause of the initial claim, You 
will not be able to make a second Accident and Sickness claim until, You have been back at 
Work for at least 30 consecutive dates between each claim.
So, as Mrs Hs illness from 24 September 2020 was due to a different cause than her 
previous claim for anxiety, she was able to successfully claim as she had satisfied the need 
to have been back in work for at least 30 days.
Although UKI initially considered Covid related symptoms as being the primary cause of Mrs 
Hs illness only until 10 January 2021, it ultimately accepted this services view that it was 
the primary cause until 27 April 2021 and has therefore offered to paid the claim up to 27 
April 2021.
I do need to clear up a misunderstanding about the date that UKI has offered to pay the 
claim until. There was a typo in some information it sent back to us where it incorrectly said 
24 April 2021. Our adjudicator therefore mistakenly repeated the end date of the claim as 
being 24 April 2021 in his correspondence with Mrs H.
Our adjudicator thought that the primary cause of Mrs Hs illness ceased to be Covid-related 
due to a questionnaire that the GP filled in, where it is stated that from 28 April 2021 her 
condition was mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. And there was no more significant 
mention of Covid on her sick notes from that point onwards.
As stated in the terms of the policy above, in order to re-qualify for a further claim for anxiety, 
Mrs H would have needed to have been back at work for six continuous months from the last 
claim for anxiety. So, as the last claim for anxiety had ended in August 2020, Mrs H would 
have had to returned to work continuously until February 2021. But as we know, she had 
gone off sick again in September 2020 with Covid related illness. Im therefore satisfied that 
UKI has correctly interpreted the timescales in the policy.
Mrs H thinks that UKI should look at the anxiety as a separate and unrelated condition to the 
previous claim as it had been triggered by Covid. She also says that anxiety wasnt the sole 
cause of her sickness and that there were other elements to her illness that would validate 
the claim.
However, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that the primary cause of Mrs Hs 
illness from 28 April 2021 was anxiety. The policy is set up in a way that it will not pay a new 
claim for a particular condition that has been previously claimed for unless a person had 
been back at work for six months. The policy doesnt differentiate between the same 
condition but with different underlying causes. So I think UKI has acted reasonably, in 
accordance with the policy terms, in offering to pay the claim up until 27 April 2021.
I appreciate that Mrs H has had a difficult time and that dealing with the claim and then the 
complaint would have been additionally stressful. However, I consider that the £150 already 
paid by UKI is a proportionate amount for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I consider that UK Insurance Limited has acted fairly in 
agreeing to pay the claim up to 27 April 2021. So, I will not be asking it to do anything more.However, UK Insurance Limited should now pay the remainder of the claim up until 27 April 
2021 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman