DRN-3721758
The complaint
Mr T complains about the standard of repair provided by Assurant General Insurance 
Limited, following a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr T made a claim for accidental damage to his mobile phone. His 
insurance is provided as one of the benefits of his bank account. 
Assurant accepted the claim and Mr T sent his phone in for repair. When it was returned, Mr 
T found his phones casing was a different colour. He complained to Assurant who said 
theyd repaired his phone in line with the policys terms and conditions.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the policy terms made it clear that 
repairs may not be a like for like match to the original parts. He didnt think Assurant had 
acted unfairly.
Mr T didnt agree so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr T was very disappointed with the repair to his phone. It was not what 
he was expecting and I accept that, had he known what would transpire, he may have acted 
differently. However, my role is to decide if Assurant treated Mr T fairly and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Having looked at Mr Ts policy, I can see the terms allow for:
repairsusing readily available parts or refurbished products which may contain 
parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which may include 
unbranded parts. 
So Im satisfied Assurant acted fairly and in line with the policy when replacing Mr Ts 
damaged casing with a readily available one. It follows Im not asking Assurant to do 
anything more. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman