DRN-1514527
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services treated him unfairly when poor health meant he could no longer use the vehicle 
he'd acquired on a hire purchase agreement it had financed. He wants it to waive the 
payments which remained after the agreement was terminated.
What happened
Mr B says he acquired the vehicle in November 2018. But due to deteriorating health he 
says he was no longer able to drive it after a few months. He says that ideally he would've 
liked to return the vehicle to Alphera and terminate the agreement at that point, with nothing 
more for him to pay. He says this option wasn't made available to him. And that he was 
given only the options to either settle the agreement in full or to voluntarily terminate (VT) it.
Mr B explains that he reluctantly accepted the VT option. But that this left an outstanding 
balance of £4,256.13. Mr B states that he feels aggrieved as he has a friend who 
experienced a similar situation. And that the finance provider in his friend's case agreed to 
write off the balance. He thinks that due to his disability Alphera should do the same. He also 
feels that he's been bullied into accepting the VT and with regard to potential ongoing 
payment arrangements.
Alphera told us that Mr B had entered into the agreement freely and it had correctly applied 
the terms and conditions of the VT arrangement. It said it had offered Mr B a payment 
arrangement to settle the outstanding amount. But it wouldn't be prepared to write it off.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he empathised 
with Mr B regarding his health. But he didn't think this was Alphera's responsibility. Nor did 
he think that because another finance provider had written off a debt of Mr B's friend that  
Alphera did anything wrong when it declined to do so the same for Mr B. He said he'd expect 
Alphera to act sympathetically in terms of the way the repayments needed to be made. And 
he noted it had offered a payment arrangement.
Mr B wasn't happy with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry that Mr B has experienced deteriorating health. And I accept that the situation with 
which he was faced was unenviable.
It's always difficult when unanticipated events cause circumstances to change so abruptly. 
And here neither party could reasonably foresee the present circumstances arising.Clearly, when Mr B notified Alphera of his situation there were a number of possibilities 
which were available as to how things might be resolved. These included accepting his 
request to return the vehicle and end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
In the event Alphera decided that it would only offer two options. Firstly, it advised that Mr B 
could settle the agreement early. This would've meant that Mr B would become the owner of 
the vehicle and be free to sell it privately. But it would've required him to pay off the entire 
lump sum outstanding (subject to reduction of interest). Alternatively, the VT option required 
payment of 50% of the sums due under the agreement. But this option meant he would no 
longer have the vehicle.  
Faced with this choice Mr B decided upon the VT option. But it's clear he wasn't happy about 
this and that's what's ultimately led to this complaint. Briefly summarised, Mr B thinks that 
due to his disability Alphera should've written off the debt as apparently happened with his 
friend. He also thinks that as a vulnerable person he perhaps shouldn't have been given the 
amount of credit that was provided.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I should acknowledge at the outset that neither party sought for this situation to arise. When 
the agreement was first incepted it can be inferred it was to the satisfaction of both parties.
Mr B says that Alphera shouldnt have given him credit because of his disability and / or 
vulnerability. I dont agree that Alphera shouldnt have given Mr B credit just because of his 
disability and / or vulnerability. Had it refused to do so, Mr B could have complained that 
Alphera was discriminating against him on account of his disability and / or vulnerability and 
that this was unfair.
I've seen nothing to show that Mr B wasn't able to afford repayments. And up to the time he 
started to enquire about ending the agreement the monthly payments had been met. Were it 
not for the unfortunate deterioration in his health there's no reason to suppose the 
agreement wouldn't have run its normal course.
In considering this complaint I acknowledge that it will always be possible for a business to 
do more. But my role is to not to determine if Alphera has done everything possible. It's to 
decide if what it has done is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I'm of the view that Alphera might've shown more empathy for Mr B's situation in the way it 
approached the circumstances. From the time Alphera became aware of Mr B's disability, in 
May 2019, its stance was that as Mr B had agreed the terms and conditions there was 
nothing else it could do than offer either early settlement or VT. There doesn't appear to 
have been any meaningful consideration of possible alternatives such as a reduced VT 
figure.
The justification for this appears to be that it wouldn't be fair on other customers. I don't 
subscribe to this view as we'd expect a business to be sufficiently flexible if the circumstances required, to take into account individual needs. Particularly so when dealing 
with vulnerable customers.
That approach seems to have been carried forward to discussions about how repayments 
would be restructured. At first there seemed to be an indication that Alphera might accept a 
payment arrangement of £50 per month. But this was later described as being simply an 
example. Mr B was also told that there was a requirement that any in-house arrangement 
would have to see the debt repaid within 15 months. Otherwise it would be passed to a debt 
collection agency or solicitor. As this time limit would require a monthly repayment of £300 
and Mr B's contractual payments were about £188 per month that doesn't appear helpful. 
And it also ignored the possibility that Mr B might need to access a mobility vehicle if his 
medical condition allowed.
Having said this, I accept that there's no requirement on a business to write-off or reduce a 
debt even where a customer has a disability. It needs to act fairly in the individual 
circumstances. Simply because one business may have acted in a particular manner doesn't 
mean a different business is obliged to do likewise if similar circumstances arise. I might add 
that I'm unaware of the precise circumstances which applied to Mr B's friend. So I can't say 
how similar they were to his own.
As Mr B has stated that his financial circumstances haven't changed since the agreement 
was incepted I can understand that Alphera would probably have reached a similar decision 
even if it had given consideration to a wider range of alternatives.
Mr B has told us that he was bullied by Alpheras staff. I dont agree he was, although I can 
understand why Mr B feels this was the case given that Alphera wasnt particularly flexible in 
its response. Alphera did, however, refer Mr Bs case to its Vulnerable Customer team  they 
considered the medical evidence he sent in before confirming Alpheras original decision.
Although it doesn't directly form part of my decision I think I should briefly refer to the 
ongoing situation. It seems clear Mr B isn't able to afford a lump sum repayment. And in 
fairness Alphera hasn't insisted that he should make such a repayment. But it has adopted 
an inflexible approach to the term during which an in-house payment arrangement might run. 
I can't see any plausible reason why - subject to the required affordability checks - there 
shouldn't be some latitude in this respect. And if Mr B does obtain a Motability vehicle his 
ability to repay the instant debt is likely to be affected. So I would urge Alphera or its agents 
to adopt an open-minded approach in negotiating the terms of repayment of this debt.
In summary, I find that Alphera could and should have demonstrated a more empathetic 
response to Mr B's predicament. I can't say its final decision to refuse to waive or at least 
make a reduction in the debt was unfair. Simply that the process by which this decision was 
reached might have shown more awareness of Mr B's situation.
I'm aware that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldn't be fair and 
reasonable for me to require Alphera to waive this debt. Accordingly, I'm not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
Stephen RossOmbudsman