DRN-3297292
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain that Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (GB)
are asking for further payments after they said theyd settled the loan in full.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr R applied for a £3,500 loan repayable at £157.45 over 60 months.
And Mrs R agreed to be the guarantor for the loan. In January 2019, Mrs R and Mr R said
they spoke to GB and were told a payment of £3,250 would settle the loan in full. Mrs R and
Mr R took out another loan with a different lender to consolidate Mr Rs debt and the money
from this was used to pay the £3,250.
But in November 2019, Mrs R and Mr R were sent statements showing there was still an
outstanding balance on the account and as they didnt agree any further payment was due,
they havent paid any further payments to GB. Mrs R and Mr R said GB started their
collection process and have added interest and late payment charges increasing the amount
owed further. They complained to GB.
GB said Mrs R and Mr R had requested a settlement figure and would have been told this
would take around three days. But theyd paid £3,250 before the settlement figure was
calculated. The £3,250 was added into the settlement calculation and this left an outstanding
amount of £365.63. They said they emailed Mr R within the three days to let him know the
amount needed to settle his loan in full.
GB said the amount wasnt paid and so the account remained active. GB said they sent the
annual statements to both Mrs R and Mr R and it wasnt until the account showed as a
payment had fallen due that they added additional charges.
Mrs R and Mr R wasnt happy with GBs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said GB had told Mr R by email that there was a shortfall in the settlement
hed paid, and that he had no reason to doubt GBs calculation. As the settlement hadnt
been paid the account had remained active.
Mrs R and Mr R didnt agree, they said they hadnt been made aware there was any further
monies due and said theyd been told by GB that the £3,250 would settle the account. They
asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 that said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint.
Mr R and Mrs R as the guarantor wanted to end the loan agreement with GB and would
have needed to get a settlement figure. The settlement figure is the amount Mr R needed to
pay to clear the loan balance. A settlement figure is usually calculated using the total amount
payable, less any payments Mrs R, as the guarantor and Mr R had already paid. The
remaining sum may then be reduced by a rebate of the remaining interest, to give a final
settlement figure. And it would be for GB to tell Mrs R and Mr R what the final settlement
figure is.
Id expect when a borrower tells the lender they intend to settle their loan early, the lender
should send written confirmation of the quotation within seven days. This should include:
the total amount owed (account balance);
the early settlement figure;
the date which the quotation is valid until; and
the amount of the rebate.
It should also let a borrower know if theyll need to pay an early repayment fee, and how they
can pay it. The borrower then has 28 days after being told the settlement figure by the lender
to pay this amount to settle the loan without incurring any more interest. If the borrower
makes the payment within the 28 days, it will be credited to their account and the loan will be
marked as settled in the lenders records. If the borrower doesnt settle the loan in 28 days,
they will start to incur interest and maybe charges again. So, theyll need to get a new
settlement figure from the lender. Ive looked at what has happened in this case.
I can see from GBs records that on 24 January 2019 Mr R called GB and asked for a
settlement figure. And the note says he was told that this could take up to 72 hours. But Mrs
R and Mr R made the payment of £3,250 after this call and from what I can see before the
settlement quotation was sent.
GB has shown an email was sent 28 January 2019 to an email address they said was Mr Rs
to provide the settlement information, and as a large payment had already been made to the
account this was factored into the calculation. The email sent says:
Thank you for your settlement request. Your current settlement figure, which is valid until
25th February, is £365.63
The email didnt provide all the information outlined above, but I can see GB has detailed
this information in their final response. So, I think there was still an amount owing on Mr Rs
loan account after the £3,250 was paid. But I dont think Mrs R and Mr R knew this at the
time
Having checked with GB the email they sent was to a different email address than that given
by Mr R in his application. And I havent seen any evidence to show that this would have
been an email address used by either Mr R or Mrs R. So, Im not satisfied either Mr R or Mrs
R would have seen the settlement email. And so they wouldnt have known that there was
still an outstanding balance left to pay on the account.
Neither Mrs R or Mr R received any further contact from GB until November 2019, so I think
they would have been of the understanding that the loan had been settled in full in January
2019. To find they still owed money several months later would I think have been
distressing. And in disputing this they have seen this amount increase over time to include
interest and late payment charges and which has impacted their credit history.
While Mrs R and Mr R wanted to settle Mr Rs loan account, I think they paid an amount
before they received a settlement quotation. So, I dont think GB acted unreasonably incalculating what this would be. And Ive no reason to doubt the amount they calculated it to
be is correct. So, I think Mrs R and Mr R should pay the amount that remained outstanding 
after theyd paid £3,250, this being £365.63. But I dont think they should have to pay any 
additional interest or charges that have been added to this amount since then. And any 
adverse information about this loan on Mrs R and Mr Rs credit files should be removed.
I also think this has caused trouble and upset to Mrs R as being the named guarantor for the
loan, its her that GB has asked to pay the outstanding amounts. And for this I think GB
should pay Mrs R £150 for the trouble and upset this has caused to her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R and Mr R disputed information contained in the background of the provisional 
decision. But the background section outlines what has happened, and details what each 
party has told us about the complaint. So, Ive considered the comments Mrs R and Mr R 
have made about my findings. 
Mrs R and Mr R said:
they havent received a full statement that showed the amount paid, any rebate or 
any charges as required by FCA regulation;
they were told in the phone call that the settlement figure would be £3,250;
they never received an email saying there was still an amount outstanding.
GB hasnt asked for any further comments to be considered.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive not changed my 
decision to partially uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision Ive said that while GB has shown an email quoting an amount to 
settle Mr Rs loan was sent a few days after Mrs R and Mr R asked to settle it. Im persuaded 
by Mrs R and Mr Rs  testimony that its an email they hadnt seen as the email address 
differed from that given by Mr R in his loan application with GB.
Its unfortunate that the phone call where Mrs R and Mr Rs request to settle the loan isnt 
available. But GBs notes of the call say theyd advised it would take up to 72 hours for the 
settlement figure to be provided. And I would have expected GB to send written confirmation 
of a settlement quotation after such a request was made.
I would also expect the quotation to detail how the settlement figure was calculated. And I 
agree with Mrs R and Mr R that this wasnt provided to them. But I can see the details were 
given in GBs response to their complaint. And the settlement figure they calculated reflects 
the same amount theyd quoted in the email. So, Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy of the 
calculation and that it would have been calculated in line with the relevant legislation.
I can understand Mrs R and Mr R believing the loan had been settled after they paid £3,250. 
But this wasnt the case as GB has shown in their calculation that this wasnt enough to 
settle the loan. So, while I dont think Mrs R and Mr R should pay for interest and charges 
that have accrued on this amount. I think the amount of £365.63 did need to be paid to settle 
Mr Rs loan in full.My final decision 
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com to
consider Mr Rs loan settled on receipt of payment of £365.63 from Mrs R or Mr R;
remove any adverse information about this loan held on Mrs R and Mr Rs credit files; 
and
pay Mrs R £150 for the trouble and upset caused to her.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman