DRN-3246399
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided by Moneo Wealth Management Ltd. He says that
Moneo failed to carry out his instructions to sell his investment on time and consequently
hes suffered a financial loss.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 20 December 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im not persuaded 
that Moneo behaved unreasonably.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr M wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr M and Moneo, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
There appears to be no dispute that at 09:06, on Friday 6 March 2020, Mr M called Moneo
about selling all his holdings with Aegon. I note he needed the money to buy a house and
was concerned about further losses. It seems that the matter was very important, and that
time was of the essence as far as he was concerned. I dont think Moneo disputes that.
I understand that Moneo couldnt action the sale (there and then) without Mr Ms written
instructions which I appreciate is in line with its policy and is also common industry practice
to avoid any misunderstandings. So, in the circumstances, I cant blame Moneo for not
acting on his verbal instructions.
I note a short time later, at 09:33 on the same day, Mr M submitted email instructions, in line
with what he was told to do. In other words, he submitted instructions in writing so that
thered be no misunderstanding. However, I note Mr M did so from his work email rather
than his usual email address, which he normally used to communicate with Moneo.
I note Mr M says that misplacing the email is what set the process in motion, but I
respectfully disagree. On balance, Im persuaded that the issue started after Mr M sent
instructions, from a different email address to the one that the business was aware of.
Through no fault of Moneo, I note the email wasnt received in its inbox but instead went into
its spam file  on balance I cant blame Moneo for this. Im not surprised Moneo initially
thought it hadnt received the email, until it was discovered in its spam file some time later.
Ive considered whether (or not) Moneo ought reasonably to have made clear to Mr M that
he shouldnt use a different email address to the one he normally used to communicate with
Moneo, but on balance I dont think it was necessary for it to do so.
I cant say Moneo has done anything wrong by not telling Mr M that he ought to email from
his usual email address, because there was no reason for it to think that he wouldnt. In the
circumstances I dont think Moneo was obliged to (voluntarily) clarify an issue that wasnt an
issue at the time as far as it was aware.
In other words, I dont think Moneo was wrong (or unreasonable) to assume that Mr M would
use his usual email address, as there was no reason for him not to. Even if he told Moneo
that he was at work, there was no reason why being at work meant he couldnt use his
normal email address rather than his work email.
Unfortunately, there isnt a call recording of the conversation between Moneo and Mr M on 6
March 2020, so its impossible to say for sure what was (and wasnt) said during that initial
conversation. Moneo maintains that Mr M didnt say he would message from his work email
and I note theres no mention of it in the call notes made at the time.
If he thought it important enough to mention to Moneo in the first place  which suggests he
appreciated there might be an issue with this - he might have been expected to make sure
the email had been received. However, I note, at no point that day did Mr M call Moneo to
see if his instructions had been received or actioned, despite his concern about the loss in
value.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think its unlikely Mr M mentioned his work email, if
he had done so I think its more likely (than not), it wouldve been recorded in the call notes.
But whether (or not) Mr M did say he would use his work email  which on balance Im
unable to safely say that he did  I note Moneo had up to 48 hours, in line with its customer
agreement, within which to contact him about the outstanding request which Im satisfied I 
did by emailing him that evening, well within the 48 hours.
Im mindful that by the time Moneo checked its emails at 12:00 on Friday 6 March 2020, as
part of its three daily checks, it was too late anyway for any sale to go through, so it wouldnt
have made a difference, even if Moneo contacted Mr M just after midday to enquire about
his instructions. In the circumstances and on balance, I cant safely say that Moneo behaved
unreasonably by not contacting Mr M within an hour or so of his phone conversation. For all
it knew, Mr M couldve changed his mind and decided he no longer wanted to sell.
Despite what Mr M says about the validity of his instructions, on balance Im satisfied that
they were current and valid when Moneo sold his holdings with Aegon early Monday
morning, 9 March 2020.
I note Mr M made no attempt to cancel his instructions despite being emailed by Moneo at
20:00 on the Friday evening. Instead Mr M emailed back with a copy of his instructions sent
earlier, effectively confirming his instructions. I note at no point did Mr M say that he didnt
want his instructions to be carried out if they couldnt be completed on the Friday. So, I dont
think Moneo behaved unreasonably by carrying out his instructions at the next available 
opportunity.
I appreciate Mr Ms overall concerns with the situation and recognise he will be disappointed
that Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator. But having given the mattercareful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
Despite what Mr M says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded 
that Moneos responsible for the delay or any financial loss.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
Moneo responded and said that it had no further submissions to make. 
Mr M also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he made the 
following key submissions:
Hes disappointed with my judgement as he did everything that was asked of him. Im 
blaming him for the errors made by Moneo which he had no influence over. 
He has provided a copy of the Client and Service Agreement (the agreement) signed 
by him and Moneo. 
Moneo was aware of his employer. His email from work  which contained his name 
and employer name  was unlikely to be fraudulent. And if Moneo thought it was 
fraudulent it couldve always contacted him. 
His background is in IT and technologies. He feels my judgement has been 
influenced by my misunderstandings of how mailboxes work, thats why hes 
provided an explanation of how it all works.  
He told Moneo that his email would come from his work email address, he was at the 
office that day, before any lockdown was imposed. So, it would be a fair to assume 
that the email would come from his work email address. 
The redirect of his email to the junk folder was due to the configuration Moneo put in 
place. It never told him that there was a trusted list of email addresses or that he had 
to register his email address, or indeed use the same email address to communicate 
with Moneo. 
The instructions only state that it only accepts instructions in writing (paper or 
electronic) to avoid any misunderstandings. The agreement implied that an email 
from any email address would be treated the same  most people have a personal 
and business email address. 
If hed been told that Moneo checks its email three times a day, or that his request 
sent at 09:33 was unlikely to be actioned before the Aegon cut-off time, he wouldnt 
have sent in the request or withdrawn it. What would be the point, knowing that he 
cant sell the shares at that price? 
His email sent at 09:33 on Friday 6 March 2021 didnt authorise Moneo to sell his 
shares on the Monday. Future prices will have been unknown and there are 
numerous factors that wouldve influenced the share price. 
Mr M didnt email Moneo back a copy of his instructions, he sought confirmation 
where the initial email had been diverted, but at no time did he resend the original 
email.    
Its Moneos technology and system, it therefore cant hide behind ignorance of how it 
works. To do so undermines the law. 
I seem to find something sinister from Mr M mentioning to Moneo that he would be 
emailing from his email address. But the email shouldnt have been treated as 
fraudulent, sent minutes after the conversation with Moneo. 
The agreement has no mention of when the email inbox would be checked, it implies 
that it would be constantly monitored. The agreement shouldve included these 
details. 
Mr M didnt instruct Moneo to cancel his instructions because he didnt think it had 
instructions to sell his shares on the Monday after the weekend. He didnt re-send the 
email instructions on Friday evening  the email conversation is attached. If Moneo mislaid the email, its not his fault. 
He did everything that was asked of him to instigate the sale of his shares on Friday 
6 March 2020. 
The error occurred when the email dropped into the junk mailbox folder. Moneo was 
responsible for monitoring its email. Im now blaming Mr M for a sequence of events 
he had no control over.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr M, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision. So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, having 
considered Mr Ms response, Im still not persuaded that Moneo behaved unreasonably in 
the circumstances. 
Im only considering the actions of Moneo and deciding whether (or not)  on a balance of 
probabilities  it has behaved unreasonably. Im not considering whether (or not) Mr M has 
done anything wrong. In other words, I cant blame Mr M for Moneo not selling the shares on 
Friday 6 March 2020. I apologise if I gave him that impression in my provisional decision. 
That certainly wasnt my intention.   
Notwithstanding the detailed and eloquent response from Mr M, I still dont think Moneo is to 
blame for his instructions  sent from his work email address, rather than the email address 
he usually used to communicate with Moneo  ending up in its spam folder. 
Based on what Mr M says, Ive no reason to doubt his experience or expertise in the field of 
IT. I understand that emails rejected from an inbox can be as a result of the system set up. 
But despite what Mr M says about firewalls, I dont think Moneo  a financial institution, not 
an IT firm  deliberately set its system up so that it wouldnt receive instructions from 
genuine customers. In other words, I dont think the system was set up to cause an 
inconvenience for its customers or make their lives difficult. On the contrary, most financial 
institutions like Moneo, have similar systems in place to protect itself and its customers from 
fraudulent activity.  
Whether (or not) there was a specific trusted email list, I think its more likely than not the 
system was designed to filter out any unusual emails that it didnt recognise and/or had little 
or no dealing with. I dont think theres anything wrong with that.  
Even if Moneo had a record of Mr Ms employer  and the email Mr M used contained his 
name and his employers name  it still wasnt the usual email address he used to 
communicate with Moneo. So, in the circumstances, I cant blame it for not treating that 
email differently to how it would treat other unfamiliar emails. 
I dont think Moneo needed to have in place an additional system to screen unfamiliar emails 
that were sent containing a customers name and an employers name. I dont think it was 
wrong not to do so. 
On balance, Im still persuaded that the issue started after Mr M sent instructions, from a 
different email address to the one that Moneo was aware of. Given what Ive said above, I still think through no fault of Moneo, the email wasnt received in its inbox but instead went 
into its spam folder  and for this I still cant blame Moneo.  
Despite what Mr M says about the agreement he signed with Moneo, I dont think the 
agreement needed to have contained every single detail about how Moneo would operate its 
business on a day to day basis. In any case, I dont think checking the inbox three times a 
day, at three-hour intervals, is unreasonable.  
I appreciate what Mr M says about the cut-off issue but in this instance, I dont think its 
material because his email wasnt received in Moneos inbox. If it had been and Moneo 
failed to action his instructions, the circumstances would be different. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says I still cant safely say 
that he told Moneo hed email from his work email address. Even if hed told Moneo that he 
was at work, it wasnt unreasonable for Moneo to assume that hed use his usual email 
address. Despite what Mr M says, he still hasnt adequately explained why he didnt just use 
the usual email address. 
In my opinion, and on balance, had Mr M told Moneo that the email would come from his 
work email address, I think its more likely (than not), it wouldve been recorded in the written 
call notes. The notes are the only contemporaneous and documentary evidence that I have 
to rely upon that show what happened at the time. 
That notwithstanding, I still think if Mr M thought it important enough to mention his work 
email to Moneo in the first place  which suggests he appreciated there might be an issue 
with this - he might have been expected to make sure the email had been received. 
Especially with his knowledge and experience of IT and firewalls. 
Despite what Mr M says, I note Moneo had up to 48 hours, in line with its customer 
agreement, within which to contact him about the outstanding request - which Im satisfied it 
did by emailing him that evening, well within the 48 hours. 
Im grateful for Mr Ms clarification regarding the email he sent to Moneo in response, Id 
mistakenly thought hed re-supplied a copy of his original email. I note at 20:11, on Friday 6 
March 2020, Moneo emailed Mr M  at his hotmail address  stating that it hadnt received 
the sale instruction yet and questioning whether hed sent it. I note Mr M replied moments 
later at 20:14 to say that hed sent an email after hed talked with Moneo to sell all his 
holdings in Aegon. 
At 20:22, Mr M emailed Moneo again  without having received a response to his first email 
 to say where hed sent the email. At 20:42, Mr M emailed Moneo again, still not having 
received a response, to ask if his original email had been received, this time (and for the first 
time in the email chain) Mr M said his email had been sent from his office email. At 22:47 
Moneo replied to say that it had received the email, but it had gone to spam. I note no 
mention was made of Mr M sending the email from his work email address because he told 
Moneo that he would, in line with his account.  
In any case, Mr M didnt ask Moneo to cancel his request because it hadnt sold his shares. 
So, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to blame Moneo for acting on his 
original instructions at the next available opportunity on Monday morning. 
I appreciate Mr Ms overall concerns with the situation and recognise hell be very 
disappointed that Ive not changed my decision. But having given the matter careful 
consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld. Despite what Mr M says in response to my provisional decision, on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Im not persuaded that Moneos responsible for the delay or any financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman