DRN-3195483
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made on her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip platinum travel insurance policy - underwritten 
by URV (the policy). 
Mrs B had planned a trip abroad which was due to take place between 1 March and 2 April 
2020. Her trip included travel to and from different countries and involved a couple of 
cruises.
On 14 March 2020, whilst on board one of the scheduled cruises, Mrs B says the captain 
made an announcement that the cruise would be terminating early and that the cruise 
company had cancelled all worldwide sailings. This was due to the global impact of Covid-
19. Mrs B had been due to disembark this cruise ship on 15 March 2020, before boarding 
another cruise liner but that didnt go ahead.
Mrs B cut short the trip and returned to the UK on or around 20 March 2020. She 
subsequently tried to obtain a refund from the tour operator for the part of the trip she was 
unable to use. The tour operator paid a proportion of her costs, but she was still left with a 
shortfall. So, Mrs B made a claim on the policy for the balance - and for a travel visa she was 
unable to use.
URV declined the claim on the basis that the reason for Mrs B cutting short her trip wasnt 
listed as an insured event under the relevant section of the policy. Unhappy, Mrs B 
complained to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. As she 
disagrees, her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say URV has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed but Im not upholding her complaint because, for the 
reasons set out below, Im satisfied URV fairly and reasonably declined the claim made on 
the policy. Whilst I can understand why she feels frustrated by being left out of pocket 
through no fault of her own, it doesnt automatically follow that the policy covers her for the 
losses she incurred as a result of her trip being cut short.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) in this case. Although the IPID and policy document 
confirm that the policy provides up to £5,000 of cover if Mrs B had to come home 
early, that is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy being met. 
The curtailment section of the policy is at page 17 of the policy. It sets out a specific 
set of circumstances in which cover is provided by the policy for cutting short a trip. 
None of the circumstances described apply here and theres no cover for a trip being 
cut short because of a global pandemic.
The curtailment section also sets out whats not covered under this section and 
cutting short a trip because of a global pandemic isnt expressly excluded. As a 
result, Mrs B says that if there isnt an express exclusion, it should be included as an 
insured event by default. And, as such, her claim should be covered. I dont agree. 
Just because something isnt expressly excluded by the policy terms, it doesnt follow 
that, by default, it is included and should be covered. And I dont think its reasonable 
to suggest that each and every scenario should be set out in the exclusions, when 
the same section expressly sets out what is covered. 
Ive also considered Mrs Bs point that when taking out the policy, Covid-19 wouldnt 
have been in the contemplation of the parties and, so, it isnt surprising that it 
wouldnt be expressly included as an insured event. However, Im aware of other 
travel insurance policies available at the time Mrs B bought the policy which did 
expressly cover the policyholder if a trip was cancelled or cut short because of a 
pandemic. But based on the curtailment section of the policy, this wasnt a risk that 
URV sought to insure against. 
Mrs B has also provided documentary evidence that from 16 March 2020, URV 
added a new general exclusion to the branded policy Mrs B had the benefit of. This 
was a change was due to impact any subsequent policy, compared to the previous 
policy which Mrs B had the benefit of. The general exclusion to be added reflects 
theres no cover for cancellation, abandonment or curtailment claims if the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office advises against travel including to an area affected by 
Coronavirus, COVID-19, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs-COV-2) or any 
mutation of Coronavirus, COVID-19 or SARs-COV-2. Or any claims because of those 
diseases or any mutations or any pandemic or fear or threat of any the above. Mrs B 
says that because URV has made clear that these things are excluded in future 
travel policies taken out, it follows that they were covered under the policy she had 
the benefit of. I can understand why she says this. However, Im satisfied that URV 
was just making clear that in future policies taken out from 16 March 2020, these 
things would be expressly excluded. And I dont think this means that they were 
included as insured events under the policy she had the benefit of for the reasons 
already set out above. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, but I dont think there was any 
cover in the circumstances Mrs B found herself in. 
Page 23 of the policy sets out cover for Catastrophe. This section provides for a 
benefit of up to £1,000 per person to be paid for reasonable additional 
accommodation and transport costs incurred up to the standard of your original 
booking, if you need to move to other accommodation at any point during the trip as 
a result of stipulated events such as an infectious disease, meaning you cannot use 
your booked accommodation. But Im not persuaded that this section of the policy is 
relevant to the circumstances of Mrs Bs claim. Her claim was for the unused aspects 
of her package booking, not any accommodation or transport costs that resulted from 
the first cruise ending early and her having to be transferred to a hotel. It has been 
confirmed that Mrs B didnt pay for additional accommodation or travel costs (such as 
her flight home). These were met by the cruise company.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman