DRN-3982587
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly rejected a claim he made under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) regarding the purchase of a timeshare product.
The credit card account which was used to pay for the purchase was in Mr Cs sole name  
which is why the complaint is only in his name. But as the transaction in question appears to 
relate to a contract entered into by both Mr C and his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs C 
throughout much of this decision. 
Mr and Mrs C have been represented, successively, by two firms, which Ill refer to 
collectively as Mr and Mrs Cs representatives.
 What happened
Mr and Mrs C have told us that in 2012 they bought a timeshare product from a company 
(the Company). They say they were approached in the street and were persuaded to 
attend a sales presentation, which included a tour of prospective properties.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say that at the presentation Mr and Mrs C were subject to 
constant and deliberate pressure. They say the Companys sales representatives promised 
Mr and Mrs C that if they bought the timeshare, theyd have worldwide availability of 
timeshare resorts and access to a wide variety of travel dates. And they say this was a main 
reason why Mr and Mrs C decided to buy the timeshare, but it turned out to be untrue. In 
practice both availability and dates were extremely limited, and the choice of resorts was 
very limited.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives also say that Mr and Mrs C: 
werent made aware that the contract contained a clause which would pass financial 
obligations on to their next of kin if they died;
werent given proper use of a cooling-off period; and 
werent given appropriate time to read and understand the contract during the sales 
process.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say that it was due to the Companys misrepresentations 
and the pressure it applied that Mr and Mrs C decided to go ahead and buy the timeshare.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. In summary, he thought that Mr C was 
too late to make a claim under section 75 CCA because of the time limits set out in the 
Limitation Act 1980. He also said that he wasnt convinced a court would consider the 
relationship between Mr C and NatWest to be unfair. So he didnt think NatWest had been 
wrong to turn down Mr Cs claim, and he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to NatWest on 3 February 2023. I said:
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly in declining Mr Cs claim. Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs C believe that the Company mis-sold them the timeshare because the 
availability and variety of timeshare holidays theyd be able to take were misrepresented at 
the time of sale.
Where a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier (the Company, in 
this case) they can, in certain circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under 
section 75 CCA. The claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer 
could make against the supplier, provided its made within the relevant limitation period.
Only a court can decide whether the claim was made out of time under the Limitation Act 
1980. But that Acts still relevant here in considering whether NatWests response to the 
claim was reasonable.
There are two sections of the Limitation Act that I think are potentially relevant in this case. 
Section 2 applies to claims for damages under section 2 of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. 
Section 9(1) applies to causes of action for sums recoverable under statute. Under both 
those sections, the limitation period is six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued.
Im satisfied that in this case the date on which the cause of action accrued was the date on 
which Mr and Mrs C suffered damage. And any relevant damage would have been incurred 
when Mr and Mrs C bought the product and not, as their representatives have suggested, 
the date some years later on which they say Mr and Mrs C came to the view that the 
Company had misrepresented the position to them. This is because the date of purchase 
was the point at which they became liable under the purchase agreement and paid for the 
benefits which they say were misrepresented to them.
This means that any claim under section 75 CCA would need to have been made within six 
years of the date when Mr and Mrs C bought the timeshare product. That was in July 2012. 
From what Ive seen, Mr C didnt contact NatWest until February 2019. And by that time the 
six-year period within which hed have needed to bring an action under section 75 CCA had 
expired.Given that I think it likely that a court would say that Mr and Mrs Cs claim for 
misrepresentation is out of time, I cant fairly conclude that it was wrong of NatWest to turn 
down Mr Cs claim under section 75.
Our investigator went on to consider whether a court might conclude that the relationship 
between Mr C and NatWest was unfair in the light of the allegations made. And he 
considered the potential application of section140A CCA to Mr Cs case. But I cant see that 
Mr C or his representatives have ever asked NatWest to consider this point or provided 
evidence or arguments to support it. And NatWest hasnt had a chance to investigate it. In 
the circumstances, it would need to be dealt with as a separate complaint should Mr C wish 
to raise it.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold the complaint.
Further submissions
Neither of the parties has provided any further comments or evidence since I issued my 
provisional decision and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that theres any good reason to depart from the findings 
I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision 
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
23 March 2023.  
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman