DRN-4300233
The complaint
Miss P has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ps car was repaired by Admiral after she made a claim under her motor insurance 
policy. When her car was returned by Admiral after repair she was surprised her car failed its 
MOT in relation to a ball joint being excessively worn in the same area as where she had 
accident repair damage undertaken. So, she complained to Admiral about this.
Admiral looked into Miss Ps complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
highlighted that the part failed because of wear and tear which wasnt anything to do with the 
accident. As Miss P remained unhappy she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss P and partly upheld her complaint. Although she 
accepted that the part was excessively worn she asked Admiral to refund the cost of the 
additional wheel alignment Miss P incurred as this was required so quickly after Admirals 
repair. 
Miss P accepted the position outlined but as Admiral didnt agree the matter has been 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss P accepts the position outlined I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this 
complaint and the repair. As our investigator explained the ball joint required replacing due 
to wear and tear and wasnt accident damage related so I cant ask Admiral to pay for this. 
However, I agree that it should pay the cost of the wheel alignment, Ill explain why.
I can understand Admirals position and that Miss Ps wheel alignment couldve been 
knocked out while Miss P was driving the car after it was repaired and returned to her. But 
as our investigator has highlighted Admirals engineer has just said that the wheel alignment 
was ok and hasnt provided any real evidence in support of this. Plus, I think Admirals 
repairer shouldve told Miss P about the ball joint problem when it returned the car to her. I 
say this as Miss P was told not to drive the car given its condition when she took it for an 
MOT a few weeks after repair, so there clearly was concern about the ball joint that should 
have been obvious to the repairing garage. I accept that Admirals repairer wasnt obliged to 
do this but given it was working in that area of the car I wouldve expected it to highlight the 
clear issue to Miss P.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for Admiral to pay Miss Ps wheel alignment costs, plus interest for the time shes 
been without the money.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im partly upholding this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss Ps wheel alignment costs plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman