DRN-4512089
The complaint
Miss S complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined to cover some of her pets 
veterinary treatment when she made a claim under her pet insurance policy. 
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Miss S has a pet insurance policy for her dog - who Ill refer to as P - which is 
underwritten by UKI. The policy was taken out in January 2023. 
Prior to this, in September 2022, P had been seen by her vet for vulval discharge. 
The clinical notes say: Owner noticed vulval discharge over past month on and off, 
yesterday green colour.
The vet carried out a vulval examination and noted: vulval exam, mild discharge but 
no green colour. The vet added Ps disposition was very bright currently and normal 
on physical examination. 
The vet concluded the discharge could be hormone related as P was about the age 
to be coming into her first season.
A few days later, having carried out a test of Ps urine, the vet noted: unlikely 
infection but ideally larger sample required. Owner said no change, still very bright 
and happy. Going to monitor.
In February 2023, P was seen by the same vet as Miss S had noticed P had green 
discharge when urinating and a pustule on Ps peri-vaginal skin. She said P seemed 
in pain and was demonstrating snappy behaviour. 
On examination, the vet noted: a small amount of white/clear discharge, really 
resenting, slightly swollen vulva but no erythema, one central pustule on skin around 
vulva opening.
P was re-examined a couple of days later, green discharge was mentioned along 
with other symptoms including persistent scratching of the rectum  focussing on 
caudal mammary glands which were larger since Ps season. The notes also say 
[] Vulva quite prominent but not erythematous and looks very clean in consult. 
Discussed possible hormonal changes and enlargement of mammary glands/start of 
mild production if going into a false pregnancy, could account for scratching. Pustule 
see in vulva on Saturday and coloured discharge at home so possible vaginitis
The vet subsequently presented four possible diagnosis and the likelihood of each: 
pseudopregnancy (for which P had already had the appropriate treatment); pyometra 
(though unlikely due to Ps age); vaginal/uterine neoplasia (but as P was very young, 
unlikely); vaginitis/vulvitis. 
Miss S agreed to having P spayed on the vets advice that it might resolve the 
problems, but that there was no guarantee it would resolve the behaviour issues as 
these might be unrelated. 
P was spayed and Miss S put in a claim to UKI for all the treatment costs shed 
incurred. UKI accepted the claim in respect of the pseudo pregnancy but said the 
spay wasnt covered as it was preventative treatment  which isnt covered under the 
policy. And it said the vaginitis wasnt covered as it pre-existed the policy start date 
with P having shown signs of vaginal discharge in September 2022. 
It did however, pay £100 compensation to recognise its communication with Miss S 
could have been better. Miss S disagreed with UKIs outcome and so, brought a 
complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator looked into things, and on receipt of new information Ps vet, was 
more persuaded the vaginal discharge claim should be covered as there was 
insufficient evidence to show it was a pre-existing condition and connected to the 
treatment P received for vaginitis. 
He was also satisfied P being spayed was to treat the vaginitis/vaginal discharge and 
wasnt solely carried out as a preventive measure to avoid future pseudo 
pregnancies - so he said UKI should cover the cost of the spay.  
UKI disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.   
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. Our Investigator 
ultimately, concluded UKI should cover the cost of treatment regarding Ps vaginitis as he 
wasnt persuaded it was a pre-existing condition. And as he was satisfied the spay had been 
carried out to resolve the vaginitis, UKI should cover this as well. I dont need to consider 
costs relating to the pseudo pregnancy as UKI has already accepted and paid this part of the 
claim. 
So, Ive first considered whether UKI should cover the claim for Ps vaginitis. I understand 
UKI vehemently contest this and say as P had vaginal discharge before the policy was taken 
out, the claim shouldnt be covered. The policy says: We wont cover any claims in 
connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition. 
Pre-existing condition is defined as any condition, injury or illness that; has happened or 
has shown early signs or symptoms; or has the same diagnosis or signs and/or symptoms 
as a condition your pet has already had; or is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, 
illness or condition your pet had, before your pet was covered by this insurance.
Taking a strict application of the policy wording, I agree P had shown signs of vaginal 
discharge before the policy started because in both September 2022 Miss S mentions P 
having shown signs of green vaginal discharge. But even if the signs were the same as those presented in February 2023, I have to consider 
whether Miss S knew there was something wrong with P which could likely lead to 
investigation or treatment in the future when she took out the policy. From what Ive seen, 
Im not satisfied she did. 
I say this because when P was examined in September 2022  four months prior to the 
policy starting  the vet advised Miss S that Ps discharge was likely due to her first 
upcoming season and was normal. So, I think it was reasonable for Miss S to have assumed 
that following Ps first season, the issue would resolve itself  which it appeared to do as her 
vet has said there was no recurrence for approximately six months. 
And as the vet didnt identify an underlying issue when examining P in September 2022  
and said the discharge was normal - I think its reasonable Miss S didnt consider Ps 
discharge to be something which would require investigation or treatment in the future. 
I also have to consider that even if the signs or symptoms were the same, whether the 
treatment was for the same thing. Notably, Ps vet has said on a number of occasions that 
the consultation for vulval discharge on 7 September 2022 is not related to Ps condition of 
pain/vaginitis. The vet explains:
During the consult on 07.09.22 I examined P and found no abnormal discharge from 
her vulva nor any abnormalities. She was the right age to be due her first season and 
I advised this was likely normal hormonal changes to do with this.
Given the symptoms resolved, we ruled out a UTI and she then came into season at 
home I think it is unlikely that this is the same or related issue some 6 months later 
with no-occurrence in between.
Ps vet also explains that its admin team had labelled the claim vaginal discharge when 
there were actually several symptoms and has explained to UKI that A more accurate claim 
description would be pain/vaginitis. In their correspondence to UKI, Ps vet explains P was 
then seen 6 months later with no recurrent in between with many different signs including 
pain in the caudal area, a pustule in her vulval area and discharged and was prescribed 
antibiotics and anti-inflammatory [medication]. 
Aside from the discharge, the other symptoms differ to that which P presented with in 
September 2022. And in the absence of persuasive expert evidence to counter Ps vets 
opinion, Im more persuaded Ps claim for vaginitis in 2023 is not connected to the vaginal 
discharge P was examined for in September 2022. 
But that even if it were connected, Miss S at the time of taking out the policy couldnt have 
reasonably known the vaginal discharge was going to lead to further investigations or 
treatment based on what shed been advised by Ps vet  namely that it was normal on 
examination, and likely due to Ps first season. So, when I consider the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied a fair and reasonable outcome is that the claim - regarding the 
treatment of vaginitis - be covered by UKI. 
The next issue to consider is whether the spay was carried out to treat / resolve the vaginitis. 
UKI says it wasnt  and that it was done as a preventative measure to avoid future pseudo 
pregnancies. It also said P was spayed to resolve her behavioural issues  both of which 
arent covered under the policy. 
Ps medical notes show the vet advised Miss P to consider spaying P as [it] may resolve the 
problem. And Ps vet has explained that her intention when recommending the spay was to 
resolve the presenting complaints of vaginal discharge and behavioural changes and hoped that if they were connected to hormones this would resolve these problems.
I accept the policy doesnt cover preventative treatment, but the clinical notes dont 
persuade me P was spayed solely to prevent future pseudo pregnancies. Likewise, theres 
insufficient evidence to show the spay was carried out for the sole purpose of rectifying Ps 
behavioural issues as Ps vet noted - Also discussed no guarantee this [spay] will resolve 
behaviour issues as these may be unrelated. So, whilst UKI has said the spay shouldnt be 
covered on these grounds, Im not persuaded it has demonstrated the exclusions apply in 
the circumstances. 
So based on the evidence, Im satisfied the spay was carried out to treat Ps vaginitis. And 
as Im satisfied UKI should cover the claim for vaginitis, the cost of the spay should also be 
covered as part of this claim.  
Compensation
UKI paid £100 compensation to recognise its communication could have been better when 
Miss S got in touch with it regarding P being spayed. I agree UKIs service fell short here but 
Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and so I wont be 
directing UKI to pay more. 
Putting things right
I understand Miss S has been paying her veterinary bills in instalments. Its not clear from 
the information I have whether shes settled these in full in respect of the vaginitis treatment. 
If not, UKI will need to cover the remaining amount, as well as reimburse Miss S each 
instalment shes already paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must reimburse Miss S 
the amount shes paid her vet (subject to proof of payment) in respect of the claim. UKI must 
pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Miss S paid each instalment until the date it is 
refunded. 
And it must cover any outstanding amount in respect of treating the vaginitis (also referred to 
as the vaginal discharge claim), which is to include the cost of the spay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman