The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) have failed to 
provide them with certain benefits they were promised as part of their packaged bank 
account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W hold a joint Co-operative Privilege Premier bank account which includes 
benefits provided and administered by AGI, such as travel and mobile phone insurance. The 
account also provided credit report monitoring for 12 months as an additional benefit, which 
had been selected by Mr and Mrs W in May 2020.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy because they have been unable to access their Equifax report 
since selecting this benefit in May 2020. Mr W contacted AGI on 20 May 2020 to report that 
he could not access his online account. AGI eventually contacted them on 28 May 2020 and 
provided them with two promotional codes which they could use to access the Equifax 
website. 
However, Mr and Mrs W said these codes didnt work, so they contacted AGI again in June 
2020 to follow up the problem. They said that AGI were unhelpful and just told them to 
contact Equifax, so they registered a complaint in July 2020. 
AGI acknowledged that theres currently a fault with its benefits website thats affecting all of 
its customers, and it said it didnt know how long it would take to fix. But it said that its 
customers should experience no detriment as it will always ensure access to benefits by 
other means (such as over the phone or by email). 
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he thought AGI couldve done more to help Mr and 
Mrs W resolve the issues they were experiencing. He recommended an award of £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the matter. AGI disagreed, so the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
In terms of the credit reporting benefit, AGI says the normal process would be for its 
customer to access their online account which would provide them with a promotion code for 
Equifax. As it wasnt working, it says it provided these codes directly to Mr and Mrs W, so 
they say there has been no detriment as a result of the benefits website not working. But Mr 
and Mrs W have been consistent in their testimony throughout that the codes issues by AGI 
DRN-2425173did not work or give them access to Equifax credit reporting. AGI says it has seen no 
evidence of this, but Mr and Mrs W spent time and effort chasing it in June and July 2020 to 
get the issue resolved. I think its unlikely they wouldve gone to this trouble if the 
promotional codes had worked or given them access to the credit report monitoring as they 
should have. Ive got no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ws version of events, so I think its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were unable to access the benefit with the codes 
theyd been given by AGI.
So although AGI says its customers would not be put to any detriment as a result of the 
benefits website not working, it appears that that is exactly what has happened with Mr and 
Mrs W, as they have been left without any access to the credit reporting benefit they 
selected in May 2020.  
I can understand how frustrating this experience wouldve been for them. I can see, for 
example, that theyve had to send multiple emails chasing the matter with AGI, along with 
making several phone calls in an attempt to resolve the issue  but to no avail. I can also 
see that they had been promised a call back that didnt materialise, which Mr W 
subsequently had to chase on 10 June 2020. Having reviewed the sequence of events, I 
think the service Mr and Mrs W received has been poor, and I think AGI couldve done more 
to investigate their concerns regarding the defective promotional codes/inability to access 
the benefit (given that this was a paid-for service as part of their account benefits) rather 
than simply telling them to call Equifax themselves. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs W have suffered disappointment by way of failing to receive their 
credit reporting benefit and have also experienced distress and inconvenience in trying to 
resolve the matter with AGI. Mr and Mrs W have asked for a refund of the money they have 
paid for their packaged account. But given theyve seemingly had the benefit of the other 
products included in their packaged bank account (such as insurances etc), I do not think it 
would be fair and reasonable for AGI to have to refund the account fee. 
I also cannot make a direction asking AGI to give Mr and Mrs W access to an Equifax 
account, as this involves a third-party organisation that is not party to this complaint and is 
therefore under no obligation to follow any direction made in this decision. But I can direct 
AGI to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the distress and inconvenience they have suffered as 
a result of failing to receive their expected benefit, as well as their experience in trying to 
resolve the matter.
Our investigator recommended an award of £150, which I consider to be fair compensation 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to pay £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs W in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
This sum should be paid within 28 days of AGI receiving notification of Mr and Mrs Ws 
acceptance of this decision, failing which interest will accrue on the amount at the simple 
rate of 8% per annum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 Jack Ferris
Ombudsman