DRN-3394803
The complaint
Mr M complains about a default date recorded on his credit file by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M had a credit card with HSBC. In the summer of 2018 Mr M entered a Debt 
Management Plan (DMP) via a third party debt advice service. HSBC continued to record 
that Mr Ms credit card was in arrears on his credit file.
Mr M went on to raise a complaint that HSBC had waited too long to default his account. 
HSBC upheld Mr Ms case and agreed to amend the default date to February 2019 and 
pay him £75 to apologise.
But when Mr M later checked his credit report he found the information HSBC reported 
about his credit card hadnt been updated as agreed. Mr M referred his complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file submission, HSBC confirmed it 
hadnt updated Mr Ms credit file as promised and offered him a further £100 to apologise, 
taking the total award offered to £175.
HSBC later confirmed it had made manual updates to Mr Ms credit file and his case was 
closed. But Mr M got back in touch after he found the default date was still being 
incorrectly recorded on his credit file. Mr M also said the outstanding balance wasnt being 
updated correctly and that his credit file showed incorrect arrears information.
HSBC has since told us theres a systems problem thats impacted how the default date is 
recorded on Mr Ms credit file by the credit reference agencies. Mr M asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken the step of issuing a 
provisional decision as matters have moved on since the investigator looked at Mr Ms 
case. At the beginning of December 2021 HSBC notified us of a system defect that 
impacted how it reported the default date of Mr Ms credit card each month.
I recently asked the investigator to contact HSBC and get further evidence as well as an 
update on whether the systems issue has been resolved. HSBC responded to say it has 
put an interim fix in place and is investigating the root cause of the problem in hopes of 
resolving it.
HSBC has confirmed the default date has been amended with the three credit reference 
agencies and Mr M has confirmed its currently being reported correctly. I understand Mr 
M is concerned the issue may reoccur at a later point. If HSBC makes further errors in 
reporting the default date, Mr M may have recourse to raise his concerns again.
In response to the investigators findings, Mr M told us HSBC had also incorrectly 
recorded arrears markers on his credit file between 2016 and 2018. I asked HSBC to send 
us credit card statements for the period in question and agree with Mr M that his payments 
were made. I went back to HSBC and asked it to confirm why missed payments were 
recorded during those dates and supply evidence to support its response.
HSBC has sent systems evidence that shows the information it reports to the credit 
reference agencies about Mr Ms credit card. Whilst I accept there are missed payments 
on the screen print provided by Mr M, the systems evidence HSBC provided doesnt show 
it recorded arrears prior to 2018. I can see theres a discrepancy, but the information Ive 
seen shows HSBC has reported the right payment information.
In response to the investigator, Mr M complained the outstanding balance wasnt updated 
in line with his payments. HSBC has since confirmed account balances take around a 
month to update. I think its reasonable to note HSBC has to provide an update to the credit 
reference agencies each month. And the credit reference agencies then have to update the 
credit report. Theres a reasonable level of administration involved and Im satisfied what 
HSBC has told us is correct. In addition, Mr M hasnt told us about any negative impact 
hes found as a result of the way the outstanding balance is reported.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration that despite being told the information was corrected 
on a number of occasions the issue reoccurred as late as December 2021. Its clear this is 
an important issue for Mr M and I think he should reasonably be able to rely on HSBC to 
record accurate information on his credit file.
HSBC has paid £175 so far but Im not persuaded that fairly reflects the impact on Mr M or 
the length of time the issue has gone on for. As a result, I intend to increase the award by a 
further £175 taking the total award to £350. In my view, that is a fairer way to resolve Mr 
Ms complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr M responded and provided evidence from his credit file showing how the information 
HSBC reported has changed over time. Mr M highlighted that whilst his default date was 
now showing as correct, missed payments between October 2018 and January 2019 were 
being reported. Mr M said the payments should be recorded to show he was in an 
arrangement to pay in place, not as missed. 
HSBC supplied further evidence to show how it was reporting Mr Ms credit card history and 
agreed to settle in line with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M remains concerned that the information recorded on his credit file is still 
incorrect. But weve been back to HSBC on a number of occasions and obtained systems 
evidence that shows the specific information it records about Mr Ms credit card with each of 
the main credit reference agencies. Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied the information 
reported is correct. In particular Mr M has asked why the months October 2018 to January 2019 are now 
showing as in arrears. Mr M says he was in an arrangement to pay at the time so they 
should be recorded as an A to reflect that. But HSBC has sent us systems evidence to 
show it is correctly reporting that Mr M was in a DMP in 2018 through to when his credit card 
was closed in February 2019 - when it defaulted. The information reported shows Mr M was 
making payments of £5 from September 2018 as part of a DMP and that arrears increased 
over the following months. Thats in line with the DMP Mr M was in, the payments he was 
making and the date his credit card was closed and defaulted. Im satisfied HSBC is 
reporting the correct information. 
It might be helpful to explain that whilst very similar, a DMP and arrangement to pay arent 
exactly the same. A DMP is generally arranged by a professional third party on a consumers 
behalf by negotiating with their lenders. Whereas, if a consumer individually agrees with a 
business to make reduced payments due to financial difficulties, its normally recorded as an 
arrangement to repay. Mr M was making reduced payments as part of a DMP and Im 
satisfied thats being accurately reported by HSBC. I havent been persuaded to tell HSBC to 
make further changes to Mr Ms credit file. 
For the reasons Ive given above, I remain of the view that an increased settlement of £350 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him a 
total of £350 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman