DRN-2322123
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy about a default registered on her credit file by Studio Retail Limited.
What happened
Ms B held a credit account with Studio. In 2016/17 the account fell into arrears. Later, and 
with the help of a debt management company, Ms B set up a payment plan. This remained 
in place until the account was sold to a third party in 2018.
Ms B has now paid off the account in full and the third party has removed its entry from Ms 
Bs credit file. Ms B wants Studio to remove the default it registered.
Studio refused. It said it had reported a true reflection of Ms Bs account to the credit 
reference agencies. It said it was unable to request an amendment to the credit file. It noted 
that the third party who had purchased the account in 2018 had removed details from M s 
Bs credit file as a gesture of goodwill, but said it had a duty to ensure that the credit file 
reflected the account and said it couldnt remove the default just because it had been asked 
to do this by Ms B.
Ms B wasnt happy with Studios response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
wants the default removed from her credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Studio had made an error in 
applying for the default in 2017 and that it had been correctly reported to the credit reference 
agencies.
Ms B didnt agree. She felt shed been misled into thinking that Studio would remove the 
default as a result of a reply it had sent to the credit reference agency. She also said she 
didnt think the default should have been registered in the first place due to the 
circumstances in which her account fell into arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Studio reported a default to the credit reference agencies in July 2017. The 
default was reported because Ms Bs account had fallen into arrears. Ive taken account of 
what Ms B has said about the circumstances leading to her falling into arrears. Im sorry to 
hear that shes had a difficult time, However, based on the fact that the account was in 
arrears, and taking into account the obligation on a lender to report accurate information to 
the credit reference agencies, Im unable to say that Studio has made an error in reporting 
the default.
Where  as in this case  a default has been reported correctly, Im unable to require a 
lender to remove it. The only circumstances where it can be removed is if the lender agrees 
to do this as a gesture of goodwill. I understand that some other lenders have agreed to do 
this for Mis B. But Studio has said that it doesnt agree to remove the default and I cant 
require it to do so.
I appreciate that Ms B feels that shes been misled into thinking that Studio would remove 
the default. Shes referred to a reply that she received from the credit reference agency in 
which it said it would need confirmation from the third party who purchased the account 
before it could remove the default. I understand why Ms B might have though this meant that 
Studio would remove its default, but the response doesnt actually say this. And even if the 
response from the credit reference agency caused confusion for Ms B, I cant fairly hold 
Studio responsible for this.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Studio reported the default in error. I 
appreciate that this situation is frustrating for Ms B because Studio could (if it wished) 
remove the default as a gesture of goodwill, but as Ive explained, Im unable to require to do 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman