DRN-4218008
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the service provided by Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) during 
the process of arranging the re-registration of her Stocks and Shares Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and General Investment Account (GIA) with a new provider (whom Ill call 
W). She says Aegon was responsible for delays during the transfer to W which caused her 
financial loss as well as a great deal of anxiety and frustration. 
To put things right, Mrs G wants more financial compensation than Aegon has paid her. 
What happened
The background circumstances are not in dispute so Ive set out below just a brief summary 
showing the timeline of key events.
ISA re-registration:
   12 May 2022 - Aegon received a transfer request, which it had to reject as 
the name on the request didnt match the name on its records
   17 May 2022  Aegon received name evidence and after further emails, 
received acceptance from W on 25 May 2022
   Aegon delayed initiating the re-registration until W chased this up in late 
June
   28 June 2022  Aegon actioned the matter and re-registration was 
submitted 
   30 June 2022 - the final fund couldnt be re-registered electronically, so 
Aegon sent a paper Stock Transfer Form for the fund manager to manually 
process the re-registration
   4 July 2022 - all except one fund had been re-registered 
   13 July 2022  transfer completed 
GIA re-registration:
14 June 2022  Aegon received a request for the GIA. As the form was 
evidently incorrectly dated, it said it couldnt accept it
27 June 2022  Aegon received a properly completed form and so should 
have been able to start the process promptly at this point
15 July 2022 - Aegon provided a valuation of the GIA which it uploaded to an 
automated account transfer and asset re-registration electronic system but 
further delay followed when Aegon had to re-send the valuation as W didnt 
use the same system
21 July 2022  when Aegon re-sent the valuation, W confirmed acceptance of 
the funds 
28 July 2022 - re-registration of funds was completed (bar one outstanding 
fund) but the remaining cash wasnt sent until 11-15 August 2022
8 September 2022 - the outstanding fund was re-registered completing the 
transfer. 
Aegon admitted it had caused delays on both the ISA and GIA and upheld Mrs Gs 
complaint, paying her total compensation of £961.91. This was made up as follows: 
£750 for the delay and its poor complaint handling, 
£202.59 charges refunded 
£9.32 interest. 
Mrs G didnt feel this was enough to resolve things and she brought her complaint to us. One 
of our investigators looked into what happened. He thought that Aegon had broadly done 
enough to put things right, although he said if there was evidence of investment loss also as 
a result of Aegon having delayed the sale of the fund that had to be sold, then Aegon should 
refund this also. 
Mrs G feels that Aegon should pay more compensation. She doesnt feel that the following 
issues have been adequately addressed:  
the main outstanding matter is the impact on her of the poor performance by Aegon. 
She felt the electronic transfer of her portfolio content to a new stockbroker should 
have been completed in a couple of weeks. 
Mrs G had to repeatedly contact Aegon via phone, email and letter to get the transfer 
done.
When Aegon received the transfer forms, Mrs G was no longer able to see what was 
happening with her portfolio as she couldnt access information in her online account. 
She said this meant she was unable to make any informed decisions to mitigate loss 
and instruct stockbrokers to take appropriate action. She believes that Aegon is 
completely at fault for the losses incurred during the period that they took to complete 
the transfer...
she also said there were numerous other issues - Aegon refusing to transfer cash, 
issuing wrong forms, not responding to complaints, not following appropriate 
complaint procedures, not responding to emails or phone calls, not keeping to 
timescales, not clarifying matters with Mrs G and taking unilateral action on the 
account without speaking her  Mrs G says: the list could go on
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mrs G that Ive looked at the complaint afresh. Having thought about 
everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached broadly the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The background facts are not in dispute and Aegon has upheld Mrs Gs complaint so I dont 
need to say more about what happened. I agree that Mrs G was entitled to expect a better 
level of service from Aegon than she experienced. In my decision, I will concentrate on the 
question of fair redress, which is the main concern now and the reason Mrs G has requested 
an ombudsman referral.
As I understand things, the crux of Mrs Gs complaint is that, had she been able to access 
her online account in the usual way, she would have been able to see exactly what was 
happening with her portfolio and make investment decisions accordingly to mitigate the loss 
of value in her portfolio.  
Mrs G told us she accepts that Aegon cannot be responsible for what happened to the value 
of her portfolio between January and up to the beginning of May 2022 but says her 
complaint is about Aegons lack of fiscal management, process management and 
complaint handling during the months of May to August which led directly to her portfolio 
losing value. 
All parties agree there was avoidable delay on the part of Aegon. And its completely 
understandable that the length of time taken for these transfers to complete was a source of 
frustration and anxiety for Mrs G. Its fair that the compensation she receives properly 
reflects the impact on her of Aegons service failings on this occasion.
So I have first considered if there was any financial impact. 
Aegon wasnt responsible for advising Mrs G on her holdings  it was up to Mrs G to make 
investment choices and decisions. 
I appreciate that one of Mrs Gs key concerns is that she couldnt access her account to see 
what was happening to her holdings  aggravated by the fact that the matter was taking so 
long to complete and she was unable to find out information from Aegon. But as she had 
already instructed the transfer of her entire holdings with Aegon, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that access to the account was restricted from that point on, given that any 
change in the portfolio wouldve affected the transfer process  effectively the transfer would 
have stalled until new valuations were obtained and accepted.
Mrs G had given instructions for the transfer to be made in specie  in other words, Mrs Gs 
existing holdings were to be transferred to W (as opposed to being sold and the cash 
transferred). So she remained invested throughout and was (and would continue to be for as 
long as she was invested) subject to market movement. If Mrs G had decided instead that she wanted to sell some of her holdings rather than 
transferring in specie, then it wouldve been open to her to contact Aegon with her new 
instructions. Mrs G hasnt provided me with any evidence that she did this. Aegon has 
confirmed that if shed done this, it would have looked at carrying out a cash transfer for her. 
So I cant fairly say that restricted access to her account was a barrier to Mrs G changing her 
instructions to Aegon  and Mrs G could have accessed market and pricing information to 
help inform any investment decisions without needing to get into her account.  
Ive thought carefully about the delayed sale of the holding that had to be sold to cash in 
order to enable the re-registration of the remaining funds to W. Aegon has since provided 
information showing that the unit price had gone up by the date of sale, compared to the 
date the fund shouldve been sold had Aegon dealt more promptly with this. So I find that the 
delayed sale did not result in any financial loss to Mrs G. I hope its some consolation to 
Mrs G to know that on this occasion, she didnt lose out in money terms as a result of 
Aegons delay.  
I think Mrs Gs understanding that the matter should take just a couple of weeks was 
over optimistic. Nonetheless, I can see how Aegons handling of matters wouldve caused 
Mrs G distress and inconvenience as the whole process took longer than she was 
reasonably entitled to expect. And its clear to me that Aegon didnt communicate effectively 
with Mrs G, so adding to her anxiety about the delay  especially bearing in mind the 
substantial amount of money involved. Im aware that part of Mrs Gs complaint concerns 
the way Aegon managed its complaint process and all this resulted in Mrs G escalating her 
concerns to the most senior person she could identify at Aegon, its CEO, which is a clear 
measure of her worry and frustration about the matter generally.  
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says our service can only look 
into complaints about regulated activities, and complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
We can however consider the customer service Mrs G received and I have kept this in mind 
when thinking about what Aegon needs to do to fairly compensate Mrs G.
Thinking about everything, I find the payments Aegon has made are fair compensation 
overall for its delay and poor performance issues. Aegon has paid an amount that is in line 
with the level of award I consider fair to reflect the extent and impact on Mrs G of the 
service failings on Aegons part. As I havent identified any financial loss, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Aegon to make any additional payment here. 
If I have not referred to everything mentioned during the course of this complaint, thats 
because Ive concentrated on what seems to me to be the core issue I needed to address  
essentially the question of fair redress. If Mrs G feels she has further cause for complaint 
(that goes beyond the scope of the complaint she brought to us), then she should first tell 
Aegon what her concerns are, so it has an opportunity to respond. If she still feels unhappy 
after that, she may be able to bring a new complaint to this service. I cant award redress 
for any complaint where the financial business hasnt first been given a chance to put things 
right.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G. But as Im satisfied Aegon has dealt with her complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action.The approach Ive taken reflects the fact that we provide an informal complaints handling 
service as a free alternative to the courts. I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful 
and even though this isnt the outcome Mrs G hoped for, she will feel that her complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I do not require Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) to 
take any further action in relation to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman