DRN-3603490
The complaint
Mrs E complains that when she approached Equiniti Financial Services Limited (EFSL) to 
sell a shareholding, she discovered it had been reduced in volume and value without her 
knowledge. 
What happened
In 2014 Mrs E purchased 720 shares in a company Ill refer to as A. In April 2022 she 
approached EFSL to sell the shares and was told she had a holding of only 50. She was 
very concerned about this as shed received no correspondence regarding the shareholding 
or changes to it since making the purchase.
She was advised to speak to the registrar, a separate company to ESFL, and on doing so it 
was explained that there had been two corporate actions in respect of A shares. In 2015 a 
bonus share offer had increased Mrs Es holding to 756. Then in 2020 a consolidation on a 
15:1 basis had reduced the holding to 50. 
Mrs E explained that shed been provided with no information about either of these events 
and was unable to understand how her holding could be reduced and apparently devalued 
without her knowledge or agreement. The registrar explained that the corporate actions 
would have been prompted by A and communication around them handled by the previous 
registrar, which it had recently taken over from, so it was unable to offer any explanation of 
why Mrs E hadnt been kept informed. 
Mrs E remained very unhappy with the situation and still felt that her shareholding had been 
unfairly reduced and devalued. ESFL issued a final response setting out its position, 
following which Mrs E referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she confirmed that the 
corporate actions had taken place as explained and, as such, she was unable to conclude 
that Mrs E was still entitled to her holding of 756 shares. She noted that Mrs E wouldve 
received the same amount for a sale of her shares post-consolidation as she wouldve done 
prior to it.   
Mrs E responded to say that she had been told that the shares had the same value pre and 
post consolidation, so the total value of her holding mustve been impacted by the 
consolidation. She also noted how the problem had been exacerbated by the lack of 
communication. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im unable to conclude that the complaint should be upheld. But I hope the 
explanation Ive provided below will give Mrs E some comfort that, while this is a 
disappointing situation for her, her current shareholding in A is correct and hasnt been 
unfairly or incorrectly reduced in size or value as she feared. 
As noted, Mrs Es original holding of 720 shares was increased to 756 in 2015. The 
consolidation of October 2020 then reduced the number of shares held to 50, as she 
received 1 new share for every 15 of the old shares she held. Its clearly very unfortunate 
that Mrs E appears to have received no information about these changes, either from A 
itself, or the previous registrar, because it meant she was understandably very confused and 
worried by what she was told when she approached EFSL to sell the shares.  
But EFSL did nothing wrong in telling Mrs E that she had 50 shares, or that they were valued 
at around £2.30 per share. That was the correct information at the time. And it was right that 
she was pointed towards the registrar to get further information about what had happened. 
Unfortunately, it seems that the explanation then offered didnt do anything to help Mrs E 
understand the situation. 
At the crux of the ongoing misunderstanding was information given to Mrs E about the 
historical price of the shares. Prior to the consolidation A shares were trading at around 10p 
per share. Following the consolidation on 13 October 2020 the new shares traded at around 
£1.42 per shares, the increase reflecting the 15:1 consolidation, along with some general 
market movement. As such, it is the case that the overall value of Mrs Es shareholding  as 
with that of all holders of A shares  remained broadly the same. 
Unfortunately, in one of the calls made after Mrs E had originally spoken to EFSL she was 
incorrectly told that the shares had been trading at £1.42 per share before the consolidation, 
as well as after. This, or course, led to her to believe her holding had been devalued from 
just over £1,000 to around only £70. Hence why she was so upset and couldnt understand 
how such a change could be made  particularly as she had received no information in 
advance to explain the consolidation and change in size of shareholding. 
But the actual reason for the reduction in value of Mrs Es shareholding over the period of 
2014 to present is simply a significant fall in market value (which is in part at least what 
prompted A to instigate the consolidation). This came as a surprise to her as I understand 
she hadnt been aware of the price situation, in addition to not having been aware of the 
consolidation. 
In summary, I can see that this has been a very stressful and worrying experience for Mrs E 
and I entirely understand why. As Ive said, I hope that, while shell of course still be very 
disappointed her investment in A shares hasnt performed better, she now has a clearer 
understanding of what happened. And as such, I hope she appreciates why Im unable to 
uphold her complaint against EFSL, as that business did nothing wrong in respect of her 
shareholding nor its communications with her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman