DRN-3411604
The complaint
Mrs F complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to correctly advise her regarding a property 
survey. As a result, she says she now has a debt of at least £18,000. Mrs F also says her 
complaint was ignored and her requests for updates, phone calls, emails and letters went 
unanswered.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs F approached TSB to obtain a mortgage to assist her in the purchase of 
a property. She discussed her requirements with TSBs mortgage advisor (MA), and the 
issue of a property survey was discussed. 
Mrs F says MA did not make her aware of the different types of valuation/survey she could 
have. She feels MA failed to advise her properly and pressured her into deciding whether to 
have a Homebuyers Report (HR Survey) for a fee or around £700 or have a basic level 1 
valuation (Valuation).
Mrs F opted for the Valuation which was carried out on 28 August. The surveyor did not 
identify any defects and the Valuation report was not shown to Mrs F. TSB said the 
Valuation is not designed to look for defects as it is only a valuation for mortgage purposes. 
On 28 August TSB also issued a mortgage offer to Mrs F. But when Mrs F changed her job, 
a new mortgage offer was issued in December 2019. Mrs F completed the mortgage in 
February 2020. 
In April 2021 Mrs F noticed a defect in her roof, which was expensive to repair, and feels this 
ought to have been noted by the surveyor and reported to her. TSB didnt agree. It didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. It said MA explained the options to Mrs F and didnt 
pressure her into electing the Valuation. And, as she had elected to have the Valuation it 
was not a survey which would be looking for defects in the same way the HR would.
Mrs F was unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that TSB hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. As Mrs F didnt agree, she asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
From the evidence provided, there was quite clearly a meeting between Mrs F and MA. That 
took place on 16 August 2019. It is also clear, and Mrs F concedes the point in any event, 
that the differing levels of valuation/survey were discussed during that meeting as MA 
quoted £700 for the HR Survey and also offered the Valuation. I cant say what precisely 
was said by MA to Mrs F since there is no record of it, but logically, it would follow that Mrs F 
would have wanted to know the difference between the two, and I think it more than likely 
MA would have explained the significant differences given that one costs £700 and the other 
was free. That means Mrs F would have known that the HR Survey would provide guidance 
on defects and any other issues, whereas the Valuation would not. 
Mrs F has argued that had she known she wasnt going to get a written report she would 
have ensured she found the funds for the £700 survey. Two points arise from this, the first is, 
that even though Mrs F didnt get a copy of the report it does not change the fact that the 
Valuation was never going to cover potential defects, which Mrs F most likely knew. I accept 
that if she had seen the Valuation report that would have shown that defects were not 
mentioned, but I have found it more than likely that she knew that was going to be the 
position in any event since MA explained the difference between the two types of survey.
The second point is that Mrs Fs argument infers that the Valuation was going to cover 
issues like defects, since she places a reliance on seeing the Valuation report, thus making 
the assumption it would have provided more detail than it actually did. But, Ive found that 
Mrs F would most likely have known that was not going to be the case, since the MA 
explained the difference between the two types of survey.
At the time Mrs F elected to have the Valuation, the issue was one of money, as she has 
said that she didnt have the funds to obtain the HR Survey. It is therefore more likely than 
not that the reason Mrs F chose the Valuation was the lack of money, rather than the lack of 
knowledge about the difference between the two. 
Mrs F has said that pressure was put on her by MA to make the decision between the HR 
Survey and the Valuation. That is a serious allegation and before I could accept that as a 
fact I would need to see some cogent evidence in support of it beyond Mrs Fs assertion, but 
there is none. I also note that Mrs F didnt make a complaint about this issue at the time, or 
in the weeks and months which followed. I think if Mrs F had been put under pressure she 
would most likely have raised the matter at the time. 
When Mrs F was given a choice between the two surveys, she couldnt at the time afford the 
more expensive one. But there was a considerable period of time which elapsed after TSB 
issued the first mortgage offer in August, which means Mrs F could have elected to have the 
HR Survey if she had wanted to. And by December, after she had changed jobs, Mrs F was 
no doubt in a much better position regarding getting funds for the HR Survey. 
The new mortgage offer and illustration issued to her made it clear that Mrs F had opted for 
the Valuation and so she would have known again at that time that she was not going to get 
a report which went into the detail of the HR Survey. 
Mrs F has complained about TSBs complaint handling process. Whilst I can empathise with 
her regarding her experience, this element of her complaint is not one I can look into. Im 
afraid that the rules which govern what I can and cant look into say that I can only look at 
what are known as regulated activities, and unfortunately complaint handling is not one of those activities, unless it is closely linked to the activity complained of, and this isnt. As such 
Im not able to tell TSB how it should deal with complaints, as our service doesnt regulate 
the banking industry. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman