DRN-4406430
The complaint
Mr N complains that Telefonica UK Limited  trading as O2 (Telefonica) unfairly asks him to 
repay a fixed sum loan he says he didnt give authority for.
What happened
Mr N says he became aware that he was being asked to repay a debt in relation to a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Telefonica in 2023, following contact from a debt collection 
agency. He told Telefonica he hadnt received any goods from it in relation to the agreement, 
and unless it could demonstrate otherwise, he wouldnt pay. He accepted that at the time the 
agreement had been taken out hed been in a retail store, looking to purchase a mobile 
phone, but hadnt entered into an agreement with Telefonica. He suggested that someone in 
the store might have impersonated him and entered into the agreement in his name, 
fraudulently.
Telefonica didnt agree. It said that the agreement had been entered into in a retail store in 
2017 and all of the details, including telephone number, matched Mr Ns. It also said that the 
agreement had been paid by Mr N until April 2018 and its records showed that the phone 
had been used with Mr Ns telephone number  specific to his SIM card.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service. In doing so, he accepted that hed applied for a 
similar agreement with Telefonica online. He also accepted that hed gone to one of its retail 
stores, but maintained he didnt enter into the agreement. His submissions focused on 
Telefonica not being able to prove that the mobile phone was given to him and he offered a 
number of scenarios under which it might have been possible for the agreement to have 
been entered into fraudulently.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They concluded, on balance and given the 
available evidence, that it was more likely than not that Mr N had given authority for the 
agreement and the goods had been provided to him. They were therefore satisfied that 
Telefonica had acted fairly by asking Mr N to repay the agreement. 
Mr N disagreed. He disclosed that although hed signed a tablet in a Telefonica store, he 
maintained that he had not been provided with any goods. He made a number of detailed 
submissions about how its possible he couldve been the victim of fraud and maintained that 
Telefonica had not proved that he had been provided with the goods associated with the 
agreement.
Mr N asked for an ombudsmans decision on the case so its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns complaint is about whether Telefonica has acted fairly in seeking to recover payment 
from him under a fixed sum loan agreement. Its a regulated agreement and one which this 
service has the power to consider a complaint about. 
Mr N has made a number of detailed submissions in support of his complaint. I dont find it 
necessary to mirror that level of detail in explaining what I think a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the complaint is. I can assure Mr N, however, that Ive carefully considered 
everything hes presented.  
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as it is in this case  Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
In this case Mr N has said, a number of times, that Telefonica ought to be able to 
demonstrate that he was provided the goods in question. However, taking into account that 
its been almost six years since the event, I need to decide what was most probable in the 
absence of conclusive evidence. 
Telefonica says the agreement in question was entered into in one of its retail stores near 
where Mr N lived, using an address hed lived at and was signed digitally and verified using 
a telephone number which Mr N accepts had belonged to him. It also says that identification 
wouldve been required from the applicant. 
Mr N says that at the point the agreement was entered into, he no longer lived at the 
address on the agreement or used the telephone number used to verify it.
Telefonica says that it cant provide evidence - or a receipt that Mr N has requested  to 
show that the goods were provided to him as those records are no longer available due to 
the time passed. However, its provided evidence which it says shows that the handset 
provided under the agreement was used with the SIM card for the telephone number which 
Mr N accepts was his.
In my view Telefonica has provided what I consider to be persuasive evidence that Mr N 
likely entered into the agreement and was provided with the goods in question. Ive carefully 
considered Mr Ns assertion that hes been the victim of fraud and that someone had 
impersonated him. However, I dont think hes provided what I consider to be persuasive 
evidence that it was likely the case, particularly because he accepts having signed for 
something in a Telefonica store.
Given all of the above, on the balance of probabilities I find it likely that Mr N entered into the 
fixed sum loan he complains about and was provided with the goods in question. I therefore 
find that Telefonica has acted fairly in asking him to repay sums owing under that 
agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Stephen TrappOmbudsman