DRN-3099572
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when he 
asked for its help in respect of a faulty item he had purchased with his (Lloyds) credit card.
What happened
On 24 May 2021 Mr S called Lloyds to say that he wanted to make a claim in respect of a 
faulty item, costing £56.99, he had purchased using his credit card on 1 October 2020. Prior 
to 24 May 2021 Mr S had been in discussions with the supplier but the promise from it of a 
replacement item, or a refund, never materialised.
Mr S says he was unhappy with how this call was handled and that he would like a complaint 
about the same logged and investigated.
On 25 May 2021 Lloyds issued Mr S with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Lloyds said it didnt agree the call of 24 May 2021 had been handled poorly. It then 
went on to say that given the passage of time it was unable to raise a chargeback on Mr S 
behalf and given that the cost of the item was less than £100 it wasnt liable to Mr S under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr S was unhappy with Lloyds FRL so referred his complaint to our service for investigation.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Lloyds had 
handled the call of 24 May 2021 fairly and she had seen no evidence to suggest Mr S had 
been treated any differently by Lloyds because of his race. 
She also said that Lloyds was correct in advising Mr S that it wasnt (given the passage of 
time) able to raise a chargeback and that it wasnt liable to him (on the grounds the cost of 
the disputed item was less than £100) under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigators conclusion so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.  
First I would like to point out that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and 
think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think 
is the right outcome. 
call of 24 May 2021
Ive listened to the recording of this call. And for the avoidance of doubt I can confirm that Im 
satisfied that the investigator listened to this call as well.
And having listened to this call I can confirm that Im satisfied that Lloyds acted entirely 
appropriately throughout.
Mr S said to us, but not to Lloyds at the time, that it discriminated against him during this call 
on the grounds of his race. But having looked at all the evidence I dont think Lloyds treated 
Mr S differently to any other customer in similar circumstances. Nor do I think Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. Now I know Mr S might disagree, but I hope that it helps him 
that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
I would also add that I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in suggesting Mr S could, or 
should, log a payment dispute on-line, or failing to disclose that ultimately it might be unable 
to assist him due to one or more technical reasons. And in respect of the former I thinks its 
worth pointing out that as soon as Mr S asked if he could make a claim over the phone, 
rather than on-line, the representative went ahead and did so. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied that after Lloyds registered Mr S claim it acted entirely 
appropriately in how it went on to record (as a compliant) Mr S dissatisfaction with how the 
call had initially been handled.
chargeback 
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that Lloyds can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Mr S paid. 
But the chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the request the 
bank submits. 
There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. 
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Lloyds  or me  to decide whether Mr S should 
be allowed to get his money back for the goods. Lloyds role is to raise the chargeback if the 
rules allow it. 
Here, Mastercard are the scheme providers and their rules state a cardholder must raise a 
chargeback claim within 120 days from the date the cardholder received the item, or within 
120 days of the item becoming faulty.
Mr S, in his call to Lloyds of 24 May 2021, said that he was aware the item was faulty two 
months after he purchased it, so in December 2020. So, under the Mastercard time limits, 
Mr S would have had 120 days from December 2020 to report his problem to Lloyds. 
However, he didnt do so until 24 May 2021. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Mr S dispute was raised too late.Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
Section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
One of those circumstances is that the claim must be for at least £100 and as the goods 
Mr S purchased were less than that I cant say Lloyds were unreasonable in declining the 
claim.
So in summary I dont think that in the particular circumstances of this case Lloyds did 
anything wrong or that it should have to pay Mr S anything by way of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman