DRN-3865591
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice WPS Financial Group Limited gave to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. Mr J opted to join the BSPS2.
On 16 October 2017, the BSPS provided Mr J with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £210,480.
After a colleague made a recommendation Mr J approached WPS for advice about his 
pension choices on 18 December 2017. It conducted a fact-find with him. Amongst other 
things it recorded that Mr J was aged 36, in good health, married but separated and with two 
financially dependent children under eight years old. He was working and earning around 
£36,500. He owned his home worth around £180,000 which was subject to an outstanding 
mortgage. No further details of the mortgage were recorded. He owned another property 
which was rented by a relative. The relatives rent covered the outgoings for that property. 
Mr J was a member of his new employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. He 
was contributing 6% of his salary into that and his employer paid a contribution equivalent to 
12% of his salary. WPS didnt record any further details of Mr Js expenditure. 
WPS also assessed Mr Js attitude to risk. It initially said his risk appetite was highest 
medium or seven out of ten. But after a discussion with Mr J it reduced this to six out of ten 
or high medium. It also recorded that Mr J would like the majority of his funds invested in 
something of a lower risk category.
In January 2018 after obtaining a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) WPS produced a 
Financial Planning Report setting out its analysis and recommendations  such documents 
are generally referred to as suitability reports. I will use that term in this decision.
WPS recommended that Mr J should transfer his DB scheme funds into a named personal 
pension. In brief, it noted that the possibility of Mr J achieving the growth rates required to 
match the benefits of the DB scheme (the critical yields) by transferring, was potentially 
borderline. However, elsewhere in the report it said the critical yields were achievable and 
acceptable. It said that remaining in the BSPS2 would give Mr J a solid base with a 
guaranteed income. But it added that Mr J was more than happy to take a gamble with 
these funds and he could be worse off as a result. WPS noted the BSPS scheme would 
most likely not be Mr Js principal pension in retirement. As he would probably pay into his 
DC pension until its normal retirement age of 65. WPS said transferring would allow Mr J to 
access his pension funds in a flexible manner. It also said the death benefits from a personal 
pension were more suitable for him.
Mr J accepted WPS recommendation and transferred his DB scheme funds to the named 
personal pension. 
Mr J complained to WPS that its advice might not have been suitable for him. WPS didnt 
uphold it. Amongst other things it said it wasnt required to guarantee or ensure that a 
transfer would prove suitable for Mr J. Instead it was required to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the transfer was suitable. It believed it had complied with its regulatory requirements 
and that Mr J was happy with its advice. 
Mr J asked us to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into it. In brief he 
felt that, given Mr Js timeframe to retirement, it was too early to say that he would require 
flexible access to his DB funds in retirement. And the Investigator didnt think there would be 
any other reason that would mean a transfer was in Mr Js best interests. So the Investigator 
said WPS should establish if Mr J had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable 
advice and if so pay him compensation.
WPS didnt agree. It said Mr J had previously been happy with its advice. Our Investigator 
said that while Mr J might have been comfortable with the advice previously but the regulator 
had since written to BSPS members and that had prompted many of them to complain.
As our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion the complaint was subsequently 
referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WPS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
WPS says its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was 
suitable for Mr J. I agree that under COBS, WPS was required to take reasonable steps to 
ensure its personal recommendation to Mr J was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1R). But it was 
also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his best interests. 
And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to advising on 
transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a 
DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that WPS should only have considered 
recommending a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate it was in Mr Js 
best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Reasons for my decision 
Ill say at the outset that WPS has argued that Mr J had previously been happy with its 
advice and that it felt his only motivation for complaining was to claim compensation. In 
effect its argued that Mr Js complaint wasnt genuine. But I don't think thats a fair summary 
of Mr Js position.
There may be any number of reasons why former BSPS members complain about being 
advised to transfer out of the scheme. Mr J himself said he was concerned that hes lost 
valuable guarantees by doing so. And that on its own would be a legitimate reason to 
complain.
Further, in recent years the regulator identified that some advising firms gave many former 
BSPS members unsuitable pension transfer advice. As a result those members might have 
acted on this poor advice, losing significant sums of money as a result. So the regulator 
wrote to people like Mr J who transferred out of the BSPS to encourage them to revisit the 
advice given to them and to complain if they had concerns. 
The fact that Mr J might have been happy with the advice previously doesnt mean his 
complaint isn't genuine or without merit. Nor does it mean hes acted unreasonably. Mr J 
was perfectly entitled to complain. And, as I explain below, his complaint was reasonable 
and justified. WPS carried out a TVAS showing how much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
WPS advised Mr J after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how 
businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure 
of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. We find it a useful tool to establish 
whether an investment is likely to match or exceed the required growth rates to make a DB 
transfer financially viable. Prior to October 2017 we published similar rates on our website. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr J was age 36 at the time of the advice and said his preference was to retire at age 65.
According to WPS TVAS the critical yield required to match Mr Js benefits from the BSPS 
at age 65 was 5.53% if he took a full pension and 4.63% if he took a tax free cash (TFC) 
lumps sum and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through 
the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4.09% a year if Mr J took a full pension and 3.88% if he 
took TFC and a reduced pension. However, those critical yields were given on a single life 
basis (where no spouses pension was payable on Mr Js death). For the reasons I explain 
below, I don't find that was an appropriate manner in which to calculate the critical yields. 
And, if WPS had calculated those on a joint life basis (where a spouses pension would be 
payable) then the figures would almost certainly have been higher. So I don't think WPS 
gave Mr J all the information he needed in order to make an informed decision. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when WPS gave its advice which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% a year for 28 full years to retirement at age 65. Ive kept in mind that the 
regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
high medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In this instance as the discount 
rates were higher than the critical yield to match the PPF benefits there was potential for a 
personal pension to match the benefits had Mr Js pension gone into the PPF. However, the 
critical yield to match the BSPS benefits appear unachievable. That said, WPS would have 
been aware the BSPS wouldn't be continuing in its existing form. So an analysis against the 
benefits from the BSPS wasnt helpful. Instead WPS should have produced figures for a 
comparison with the benefits from the BSPS2, as those details were available from Mr Js 
"time to choose" information. WPS didnt provide those figures. But, in any event, given what 
we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 would 
have provided from age 65 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF. And 
given Mr Js attitude to risk there was a possibility that transferring to a personal pension 
might have allowed him to match the DB benefits. 
But there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his 
DB scheme only to achieve a level of benefits outside the scheme that was broadly 
comparable to what he would receive from remaining in it. Thats because, in order for the 
potential to match or improve slightly on the DB scheme benefits, he would need to put 
those funds at risk. And, if there was an extended period of poor performance or his 
investments suffered losses that could result in him being worse off in retirement. Indeed its 
apparent that WPS recognised this as it said that Mr J was prepared to gamble and that 
the possibility of him matching his scheme benefits was borderline. Further, by transferring from the DB scheme Mr J would have to pay the fees and charges 
that are required in order to invest in a personal pension. And those would reduce any gains 
the funds made. In this case, apart from an initial fee to transfer of £3,125 Mr J would be 
paying WPS an ongoing fee for its advice of 0.5% of his funds value each year. He would 
also have to pay fees to the personal pension provider equivalent to around 0.52% of his 
fund value. Those are not charges he would have had to pay if hed remained in the DB 
scheme. And they would continue to reduce any gains from investment returns. 
Further, the TVAS shows that if Mr J took an equivalent pension his DB scheme would pay 
by draw down from a personal pension, then his funds could expire by the time he was age 
78. But that was based on the investments consistently growing at an anticipated mid-level 
rate of 4.75% (2.2% after allowing for inflation). But given the volatilities of the investment 
markets a consistent return at that rate seems unlikely.
In addition, WPS didnt provide any cash flow models or other analysis that showed what 
would happen if there was a market crash or a sustained period of poor performance. And in 
those circumstances, Mr Js fund could grow at a much lower level. And, if those events 
occurred his fund could be depleted during his lifetime, leaving him without the benefits of 
the pension. In contrast remaining in the DB scheme would give him a guaranteed and 
increasing pension for life. But by transferring he was unnecessarily putting that guaranteed 
income at risk. That wasn't something he needed to do. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Js best interests. Of 
course equalling the DB scheme benefits isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
WPS said transferring gave Mr J the opportunity for flexible access to his pension benefits. 
But I cant see evidence that Mr J had a need to access his DB funds flexibly throughout his 
retirement.
Theres no evidence on file that WPS established what Mr Js income needs in retirement 
would be or how he would achieve those. But, he had over 28 years to his preferred 
retirement age of 65. So its likely that at the time of WPS advice, Mr J wouldn't have known 
what his income needs would be in retirement or whether or not hed need to access his 
pensions flexibly.
However, assuming that Mr J did require flexible access to funds in retirement, he had no 
need to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to achieve that. Mr Js DB funds wouldn't be 
his only retirement provision. He had recently joined his employers DC pension scheme. He 
and his employer together were contributing 18% of his salary towards that pension. And 
WPS calculated that, after allowing for a real return of 2% a year, by age 65 Mr Js DC fund 
could be worth £300,000.
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr J with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr J could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr J 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new DC pension, would have likely given 
him the flexible access to funds he wanted, assuming he needed that flexibility.
I can understand why having extra flexibility was likely appealing to Mr J but it wasnt 
necessary at the time of the advice. By joining the BSPS2 he kept the option to transfer out 
of the scheme closer to his retirement age if his circumstances required it. So, he had no 
need to make such a decision at the time, and put his DB funds at risk by doing so, when he 
still had over 28 years to his preferred retirement age. Overall, I think Mr J had more chance of meeting his income needs in retirement through a 
combination of taking his secured benefits through the BSPS2 together with flexible access 
to his DC scheme funds. And this provided him with a higher amount of guaranteed income 
for life, thereby decreasing his overall risk in retirement. So, I dont think it was suitable or in 
Mr Js best interests for WPS to advise him to transfer his DB pension, exposing him to the 
risks of the financial markets, just to have extra flexibility that he didnt need. 
WPS also said a transfer was suitable because it would allow Mr J to leave any residual 
funds to his children on his death. At the time of the advice Mr J was separated. So the 
spouses pension the DB scheme would pay was unlikely to have seemed important to him. 
But that assumes that Mr J would never remarry or reconcile with his wife and given he was 
only 36, that was anything but certain. In fact, as we now know, Mr J has reconciled with his 
wife. I accept that WPS couldnt have predicted that happening, but it could have anticipated 
that he may well form another relationship, and remarry, so it shouldnt have discounted the 
spouses pension as being of no value to Mr J. And, as I've said above, I think it should have 
factored this in when calculating critical yields.
Further, the DB scheme would pay a dependents benefit for Mr Js children if he was 
unfortunate enough to die while they were still in education  up to age 23. So the death 
benefits the DB schemes offered could have been valuable to Mr Js family in the event of 
his premature death.
In addition while the CETV figure would, no doubt, have appeared an attractive sum to leave 
as a legacy to Mr Js children that figure wasn't guaranteed unless he died immediately. But, 
in reality, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. 
How much would remain in the fund on Mr Js death depended on a number of factors. And 
there may not have been much left in his personal pension if he lived a long life, the 
investments performed poorly, or if he took large sums from the fund early in his retirement.
Alternatively if Mr J wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life 
assurance may have been a better option for him. In fact WPS did look into this. And noted 
that Mr J could have secured a term insurance product that covered him until his retirement 
age for between £20 and £25 a month. But it said Mr J didn't want to take such a policy 
because it was not a driving factor in his considerations. In other words it would appear that 
leaving a legacy for his children, while something that was nice to have, was not an 
overarching concern when thinking about his retirement. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And ultimately WPS should not have encouraged 
him to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over 
his security in retirement.
WPS recorded that Mr J had concerns about the financial stability of the DB scheme and so 
didnt want to leave his funds under his ex-employers control. Mr J may have legitimately 
held concerns about how his former employer had handled his pension and the prospect of it 
entering the PPF. But it was WPS role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of 
the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF 
still provided Mr J with a guaranteed income worth roughly 90% of his BSPS entitlement. 
Mr J was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not 
as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.On the whole, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Js best interests to 
give up his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr J wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice WPS gave to 
Mr J was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for WPS to put Mr J, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would most likely 
have opted to join the BSPS2 if WPS had given suitable advice. 
WPS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
WPS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what WPS 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in 
the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr J 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WPS should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts WPSs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, WPS may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require WPS Financial Group 
Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
WPS Financial Group Limited pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on WPS Financial Group 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman