DRN-3440625
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way his transactions appeared on his mobile banking app and the 
customer service he received from Santander UK Plc in relation to this. 
Mr E has also complained about the way Santander handled his complaint. I issued a 
decision on 20 April 2022 explaining why I would not be considering that part of the matter. 
What happened
Mr E made a number of payments to retailers on his Santander debit card on 25 August 
2021. When he checked on his mobile banking app later that day, not all of the payments 
were showing. 
The balance showed as £75.55, or £57.35 including pending debit card transactions. This 
suggested there was a total of £18.20 in pending debit card transactions, but the list of 
pending transactions on the app only showed £8.90. So it seemed there were £9.30 in 
transactions unaccounted for. It later turned out that the missing transactions were £2.40 at 
a PayPoint, and £6.90 at a caf.
Mr E rang Santander about this and although it was identified on the phone call what the 
missing transactions were, Mr E didnt find the explanation he was given to be satisfactory. 
He said the member of staff couldnt explain the discrepancy. Mr E made a complaint. This 
was responded to the following day, by which time the PayPoint and caf transactions had 
shown on Mr Es account. Mr E was unhappy with the response to the complaint and 
referred the matter to this service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She noted that the bank had given a 
number of possible explanations as to why the transactions did not appear immediately, and 
that it could be dependent on the actions of external parties such as Visa, Mastercard or the 
merchant the transaction was made with. She went on to say that it didnt appear Santander 
could guarantee that payments would appear as soon as they were made, and that it wasnt 
required under current banking standards to provide this kind of instantly available 
information. She concluded that Mr Es complaint should not be upheld.
Mr E didnt agree and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the two missing transactions didnt appear on Mr Es mobile banking 
app until some time after they had been made. Mr E took screenshots which show this to 
have been the case. The screenshots also show that the missing transactions had been 
registered in some way, as they had been removed from his available balance.
I agree with Mr E that Santander was unable to explain what had happened, and why the 
two missing transactions didnt show up immediately on his mobile banking app. I dont think 
the explanations he was given subsequently, and the banks submissions to this service, are 
especially enlightening either. I get the impression Santander doesnt really know what 
happened even now. But that doesnt necessarily mean that it has treated Mr E unfairly, or 
provided him with poor customer service.
The systems which allow consumers to make payments using a card are complicated, 
especially behind the scenes. There are a lot of different companies involved. There is the 
card issuer (Santander in Mr Es case), the retailer, the retailers bank and the card network 
(Visa) for a start. Often there are other companies involved as well in processing the 
transactions. And all of the movement of data involved in the authorisation and processing of 
these transactions will be dependent on internet/network connections between the various 
participants. 
In short, there are a lot of points in the chain where something could go wrong and not all of 
them would be Santanders responsibility. So I am not necessarily surprised that the bank 
hasnt been able to explain specifically what has happened here. It is also not clear that the 
delay was caused by Santander.
I understand Mr Es underlying point, which is that you would generally expect to see a card 
payment showing at least as a pending transaction, more or less as soon as you make it. 
But as our investigator noted, theres no specific obligation for a bank to make this 
information instantly available. Santander doesnt promise this in its terms and conditions 
either. And I dont think its unreasonable in any event if there is a short delay. It follows that I 
dont think Santander has done anything wrong here, even if it turned out the delay was 
caused by an issue at its end.
In my view, the impact of the problem has also been insignificant. Mr Es available balance 
was showing correctly so there was no risk of him accidentally spending more money, or 
trying to spend more money, than was available in his account. And I think it was apparent 
from his phone call to the bank that he knew what transactions he had made that day on his 
card, and that Santander was also able to identify the transactions, though it couldnt explain 
why they werent showing in the app. 
I cant see that Mr E was disadvantaged by the relatively short delay before the details of the 
transactions became available in his app, or that he was caused unavoidable inconvenience. 
So even if I concluded the bank had made a mistake here, I wouldnt be ordering it to pay 
him compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman