DRN-2652528
The complaint
Miss P complains that following a car accident, Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
refused to pay her claim under her motor insurance policy for the injuries she suffered.
All references to Advantage will include its agents.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss P complained to Advantage about it declining a personal injury claim 
she made following a car accident. Miss P accepted liability for the accident that caused 
injuries to her head and neck which required hospital treatment. 
Advantage rejected Miss Ps complaint. It said that Miss P was unable to claim for personal 
injuries in the event of a fault accident as there was no third party to claim from.
Miss P remained unhappy so referred her complaint to our service. She said that whilst she 
agreed that the accident was her fault, she considered she could claim for her injuries under 
section four of the policy. She noted this section didnt say shed be prevented from claiming 
for her injuries even in the event of her accepting liability.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that the claim had been declined 
fairly but didnt think Advantage had explained the reasons clearly to Miss P. He noted that 
under the terms of the policy Miss P could claim £1,000 for certain injuries even where she 
was at fault. But after reviewing the terms of the policy, he was satisfied that Miss Ps injuries 
werent covered under section four of the policy. So our investigator concluded that 
Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably when it declined her claim. 
Miss P disagreed. She maintained that the terms allowed her to make a claim particularly as 
the accident wasnt caused by her deliberately. So she asked for an ombudsmans decision 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I understand that Miss P has raised a number of points during 
her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point she's raised, Ive 
considered everything Miss P has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case.
Looking at the policy I can see under section four of the policy terms and conditions  
Personal accident  it says that a claim can be made for certain injuries sustained by the 
policyholder. Notably, under this section it says that the insurer will pay the injured person up 
to £1,000 if the insured is accidentally injured while travelling in their car and within 90 days 
of the injury where it was the sole cause of:
Death 
Permanent loss of sight in one or both eyes
Total physical loss of a limb at or above the ankle or wrist.
Miss P did unfortunately sustain injuries to her head and neck which required medical 
treatment. Whilst I dont want to underestimate the seriousness of the injuries she suffered, I 
cant reasonably conclude that her injuries met the criteria set out in section four of the terms 
and conditions which included death, permanent loss of sight or a total physical loss of a 
limb. I agree this section doesnt appear to take into account who is at fault. But this section 
only applies to specific injuries none of which Miss P suffered from.
Miss P says that because the accident wasnt deliberate, section three of her policy  
Legal responsibility to others (Third Parties)  shouldnt apply. Amongst other things, this 
section states that the following isnt covered: Any death, injury, illness, damage or loss 
arising from a deliberate act by you or any Driver insured to drive your Car, except as 
required under the Road Traffic Act.
This was the section that was quoted to Miss P by the insurer in its final response. However, 
this section relates to third party claims and costs. I dont think this section is relevant to the 
claim Miss P is trying to make for her injuries. But given this was quoted to her by the insurer 
in its final response letter, I can understand why this caused her some confusion. I simply 
think the claim shes making doesnt fall within the personal injury section of her policy 
(section four) and she has no third party to claim from as the accident was her fault.
Miss P says the policy doesnt specifically say that if the policyholder is at fault, they cant 
make a claim. But the normal way in which a party would make a claim under a car 
insurance policy, is by claiming from the party who was at fault (via their insurer). In this 
case, the party at fault was Miss P so there isnt anyone she can claim from. And whilst her 
policy does provide some cover for the policyholder for personal injuries regardless of fault, 
the injuries she suffered arent ones that are covered by her policy.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman