DRN-2191085
The complaint
Mr Bs complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not pay a number of £5 referral bonuses 
(the bonuses) for each customer he referred to them under a referral scheme called Give 5, 
Get 5 (the scheme).
What happened
Mr B opened an account with Monzo on 27 July 2019 at which time the scheme was in 
operation. In order for Mr B to receive the bonus they were four steps which need 
completing;
1. Mr B had to send a referral link to someone (the referee) who did not have a Monzo 
account.
2. The referee would need to enter their email address in the web page opened from the 
referral link.
3. The referee opened an account with Monzo using the same email address they used in 
step 2.
4. The referee put money in the account, and made a purchase using their card or Apple 
Pay/Google Pay.
Monzo say Mr B made 5,231 referrals under the scheme of which 2,246 didnt qualify for the 
bonus because the referee hadnt completed all of the steps required. 
Monzo explained that their referral bonus system was entirely automated, and they were 
confident that Mr B had been paid for all those referrals which had completed the four steps 
above. Furthermore, and in support of that they said that they had not had any reports or 
instances of errors on the system.
Mr B was unhappy with Monzos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Monzo hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The four steps above are not in issue. Monzo told this service that they changed the scheme 
on the 5th September. Monzos terms and conditions allowed them to do that at any time and 
without giving their customers notice. Again, this is not in issue.
Mr B has provided a screen shot of a message from Monzo which states;
Referrals are changing. From 6th September, were stopping cash referrals for 
Monzo. Nudge any people youve referred to open an account, or you risk losing out 
on that reward! Youll still get £5 for anyone whos already used the referral link and 
entered their email by 5th September. But if they start the process after, we wont be 
giving out any rewards.
The links Mr B sent to the referees were valid for 12 months and Monzo have confirmed that 
if the referees completed all their steps by the time the link expired Mr B will receive the 
bonus for that referral.
Its Mr Bs case that any referrals made prior to 6 September ought to result in him receiving 
the bonus. He relies on the screen shot above and a chat he had with Monzo on 15 
January 2020. However, I dont interpret the screenshot in the same way Mr B does. 
It seems to me that the correct interpretation is that Monzo were telling customers to 
encourage their referees to open an account prior to the 6 September. If the account 
opening process started after 6 September then the bonus wouldnt be paid. But that change 
does not affect step, 4 being that the referee would need to put money into the account and 
make a purchase. And that step could be completed up to 12 months after the referee 
completed step 2.
I have also read the chat exchange in January, particularly from the 14 January to 15 
January. The agent explained; 
Anyone who used the link, entered their email and started the process of opening an 
account
before 5 September 2019 will still get £5. But if you started afterwards you won't get 
the referral
fee.
There was some further discussion later in the day with a different agent and then more 
discussion the following day with yet another agent. Mr B asked the question;
So just to confirm, the below number that have signed are fully signed up and using 
their account right? Any missing referrals would have signed up post September 5th 
is that correct?
When Mr B referred to the below number he was referring to a number which appeared on 
the app he was using at that time. The agent confirmed that what Mr B had said was indeed 
correct. But Monzo later corrected that, explaining that the number displayed on the app was 
in fact the number of referees who had signed up in total, and it did not distinguish between 
those signed up before or after the 6 September. 
I can see the lack of clarity here, but when you take the entire conversation as a whole, I 
think the message was clear that it was going to be necessary for the referee to have 
completed step 3 before 6 September not just step 2. So, I do not agree with Mr Bs 
interpretation. 
A further consideration for me is whether Mr B received the correct amount of bonus. Monzo 
have said that the system is fully automated and that there have been no reported errors 
with it. Mr B had received almost three thousand referral bonuses and I have seen some 
evidence of this in his statements. He received almost £15,000 in £5 bonuses, so I think that 
demonstrates the automated system was working. Based on this and the absence of any reported faults, I think on a balance of probabilities 
Monzos automated system did in fact work without error and therefore Mr B will have 
received the correct number of bonuses. Monzo has invited Mr B to provide details of any 
referral he feels has met all of the steps above but for which he has not been paid and said 
they would look into those cases. I think that is fair and reasonable.
So, although Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Monzo has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman