DRN-3427619
The complaint
Mr H complains about Rockpool Investments LLPs financial promotion of secured loan 
notes. He says he invested money in reliance on information from Rockpool which was 
inaccurate and misleading, and this led to a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H is the sole member trustee of a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) pension. 
In October 2015, an independent financial adviser (IFA) sent him details of a loan note 
investment opportunity available through Rockpool. Mr H invested £35,000 in his pension in 
secured loan notes in a company which owned a long lease on premises where it operated a 
data centre. 
In September 2018, the company went into administration. Administrators were appointed 
and tried to find a buyer for the premises but in April 2020 the administrator told Rockpool 
that it was unable to find a buyer and the administration process had come to an end. The 
freeholder forfeited the lease. So the investment had no value.
Mr H complained that his SSAS had lost the investment of £30,000 together with around 
£10,500 unpaid interest from 2017 to 2020, making a total of around £45,500. He said there 
were multiple failings by Rockpool including misrepresentation, breach of contract, breach of 
duty and breach of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. Rockpool didnt uphold the 
complaint so Mr H referred it to this service.
Our investigator said Mr H had been told about the investment by an IFA but it was arranged 
through Rockpool, so he considered whether Rockpool had done enough to make him 
aware of the risk involved with this type of investment. He said the risks were clearly set out 
in the documents and were brought to Mr Hs attention. And he said Mr H was a high net 
worth investor with experience in this area. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says the result of following 
the investigators reasoning is that an FCA regulated firm can say and do what it likes 
provided it includes a risk warning and exclusion of liability, and this would not lead to good 
outcomes for investors. Hes also disappointed that the investigator didnt address every 
aspect of his complaint. 
In making his complaint Mr H has provided detailed comments on all the errors he says 
Rockpool made. I wont list them all in detail but they include the following:
Misrepresentation  the valuations were portrayed as the amount that could be 
realised on sale but didnt mention that there were very limited buyers available for a 
sale and didnt say the second valuation was only informal. 
Breach of contract  Rockpool failed to act with due care and skill; didnt disclose the 
true valuation; failed to carry out due diligence, ignoring the less positive aspects; 
failed to disclose conflicts of interests and failed to ensure information was clear, fair 
and not misleading (as set out in its terms and conditions).
Breach of FCA obligations, including that information should be clear, fair and not 
misleading; and its obligations to conduct its business with integrity and with due 
care, skill and diligence; pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly; and pay due regard to the information needs of its clients.
Some of the actions Mr H is unhappy with relate to what happened when the company went 
into administration. Ive explained to Mr H that were unable to consider some of the later 
events and my decision is limited to the actions taken by Rockpool in relation to arranging 
the investment. And that due to the informal nature of our service, we wont always address 
every point that has been made, but will focus on whats at the heart of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is to look at Rockpools terms and conditions. Rockpool will provide 
access to investment opportunities. The terms say Rockpool will provide its service with due 
care, skill and diligence; and will ensure that its communications are clear, fair and not 
misleading. So Ive considered how Rockpool provided its service to Mr H and whether it met 
these requirements as well as any relevant FCA requirements.
The terms and conditions also say Rockpool does not provide advice or recommendations, 
and doesnt promise any return on investment or that the value of any investment will be 
maintained - It is possible that you could lose your entire investment, and you should ensure 
that you have sufficient assets and liquidity to bear this risk prior to making any investment.
Mr H was aware of the nature of the investment he was making, which was a loan to a 
relatively new business, and that the security was over a leasehold interest in a special 
purpose building. The information Rockpool provided gave an outline of the investment and 
the further information available to investors. As Rockpool didnt give advice, the key point is 
whether the information it provided was clear and allowed Mr H to make an informed 
decision.
Rockpool referred to a professional valuation, which was certified to have been carried out in 
accordance with the standards set out in the RICS Valuation  Professional Standards (the 
Red Book). The fact that the property couldnt be sold some years later doesnt mean that 
valuation was meaningless. Im satisfied the information given about the valuation and level 
of security was accurate at the time. The valuations were provided to investors on request, 
so would have been available to Mr H. 
Mr H complains that Rockpool didnt make it clear the second valuation was an informal one. 
The second valuation was described as an extension to the first; in other words, an update 
to that report rather than a full report. So I think it would have been clear  particularly to 
someone with Mr Hs professional experience  what the nature of the report was. I dont 
think he was misled as to the nature of the report.
Mr H has suggested that the surveyor's valuation wasnt sufficient, because it should have  
been based on an enforcement scenario. However, the "Red Book guidance doesnt require 
this. I think it was reasonable for Rockpool to use the valuation in these circumstances.
The information provided included an independent market report. Mr H says he didnt 
receive that document at the time. But he was made aware of it and could have requested a 
copy. The report itself indicated that there was likely to be strong growth in the market, with 
increasing demand.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied the information Rockpool provided was 
sufficiently clear and was not misleading. I dont think it misrepresented the nature of the investment and the risks involved. Rockpool set out the key aspects of the investment, made 
investors aware of the third party reports that were available, and highlighted relevant risks. 
The information included, amongst other things, warnings that:
no personal recommendation was made;
if Mr H was in any doubt, he should seek a personal recommendation from someone 
specialising in this type of investment;
the value might fall and he could lose all of the capital invested.
Ive also taken into account that to obtain access to the investment opportunities, Mr H had 
to sign up to membership of Rockpools network, which required him to certify that he was a 
sophisticated high net-worth investor. The terms include statements that Mr H understood 
this meant 
a) I can receive financial promotions that may not have been approved by a person 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority;
b) the content of such financial promotions may not conform to rules issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority;
c) by signing this statement I may lose significant rights
I accept that I can lose the money that I invest by making investment decisions based 
on financial promotions.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from someone who specialises in advising on
investments. I confirm that I have the necessary knowledge and experience to make my own 
decisions in relation to investments in unquoted smaller companies.
There was more risk involved in this type investment. But Mr H was someone with relevant 
expertise in this area, who signed a statement confirming that his professional role involved 
close scrutiny of this type of investment. I think the information provided was sufficiently 
clear, taking into account Mr Hs level of knowledge and expertise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September  2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman