DRN-2236987
The complaint
Mrs V feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation some cosmetic 
goods and services she purchased from a salon, using a number of finance agreements with 
Etika to pay for them.
What happened
Between February 2017 and September 2018 Mrs V entered into five separate contracts for 
cosmetic goods and services. These goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid 
for through credit provided by Etika. This credit was in the form of fixed sum loan 
agreements for between £1000 and £2000. They were usually repayable over twenty-four 
monthly instalments. She signed the agreements electronically.
She accepts that some agreements are genuine, and that she got the goods and services 
she wanted for those agreements and was happy with the service. In January 2019 the 
salon closed, and she says that many goods and services she bought werent provided to 
her because of this closure. She also says the invoices provided relating to her accounts are 
forgeries and that she shouldnt have to pay anything further. So she spoke to Etika who 
acknowledged there had been breaches of contract and went through the details of each 
loan and explained what it considered to be the net positions on these loans. The net 
position on some loans was that Etika owed her money and on others that Mrs V still had an 
outstanding debt to pay. Mrs V feels should she pay nothing further. So she complained to 
this service.
Our investigator felt that the net positions suggested by Etika on each loan were fair and that 
Mrs V should pay the significantly reduced outstanding overall amount bearing in mind the 
goods and services she has received. But Mrs V doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs V raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs V has a claim for material misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against the 
credit provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. Etika has set out under each 
loan what it thinks is the situation in light of the acknowledged breach of contract caused by 
the salon closing.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. Etika accepts 
that a breach of contract happened with the closing of the salon so I need to consider how 
this matter should be resolved fairly between the parties.
I think it worth making clear here that this complaint is about Etika and how it has treated 
Mrs V. For the reasons given it has obligations here, and through the avenues Ive 
described, I can hold it responsible for certain issues with the salon in this case. However it 
must be remembered that it is an entirely separate legal entity to the salon. Its obligations in 
this relationship in this case are not limitless. And it should be remembered that the primary 
responsibility for what the salon did or didnt do sits with the salon. The key question for me 
in making this decision is whether or not Etika has treated Mrs V fairly or not. It is not what 
the salon did or didnt do-as the salon isnt in my jurisdiction and no longer exists as a legal 
entity. Just because Mrs V feels the salon treated her unfairly it doesnt necessarily follow 
that Etika treated her unfairly. I hope Ive made this key issue clear.
Mrs V accepts she had a relationship with the salon and attended its premises regularly for a 
variety of goods and services. She accepts that she had agreements with Etika which she 
used to pay for the cosmetic goods and services purchased from the salon, and she says 
shes happy to pay for what she got. But she argues strongly that the invoices, particularly 
regarding the invoicing company (salon) name changes, indicate that there was something 
significantly wrong. She feels the invoices are forgeries.
Its clear that the salon has changed its name in the past. And clearly there are some minor 
inconsistencies in the invoices. However it must be remembered here the nature of the 
relationship in this DCS relationship with Etika. It should also be remembered that this 
decision is about Etika and no other party. And it is clear to me that the amounts payable 
under these invoices are consistent with the amounts borrowed from Etika and also these 
invoices are consistent with when those loans were agreed. 
There is also evidence relating to the specific goods and services which Mrs V received 
under those invoices/loan agreements. So although I note Mrs Vs comments regarding the 
invoices Im not persuaded that they are unreliable for the purposes of my considering what 
is fair for Etika to be responsible for and what Mrs V needs to pay for (or not pay for).
I am not going into vast detail with regard to each of the circumstances of each loan 
agreement as both Etika in its final response letter (July 2019) and our Investigator in their 
view letter on the matter (March 2020) set out in detail the positions of each of the loans. I 
have considered these and the underlying evidence in detail. 
Essentially the approach taken by Etika is to consider the goods and services provided as a 
whole and to give them equal value under the total cost of the contract. This has been done 
because the salon often provided discounts and indeed some elements of what was 
provided was provided notionally for free as part of the whole contract. Clearly these free or 
heavily discounted items do have both some intrinsic value and value in conjunction with 
other goods or services and wouldnt have been provided free individually. These discounts 
and free items were provided as part of larger agreements. So in the interests of fairness 
and consistency I think this approach of dividing the cost of the contract equally between the 
goods and services to be provided to establish an average cost per unit is fair.
Etika has applied this approach to the goods and services that Mrs V received under the 
agreement. And where Mrs V didnt receive all of the goods and services Etika has offered to 
reduce the outstanding amount that Mrs V should pay on that loan by the number of elements not provided multiplied by the average cost of each element under that contract. 
This has led to the following net positions:
Loan 1 (taken in February 2017): Etika accepts that Mrs V didnt get all the goods 
and services under this contract and thus Etika says itll credit her account 
accordingly. This has led to a net situation where Mrs V has over-payed the amount 
she owes. So Etika says it will refund her the overpayment and add 8% interest to 
this refund. I think this is a fair position considering the circumstances.
Loan 2 (taken in July 2017): Etika says Mrs V received all of the goods and services 
she was due to receive in the contract in this case. Accordingly Etika hasnt applied a 
credit to her account and says she was liable to pay the entire borrowed amount. 
Based on everything here and in the absence of any persuasive evidence to the 
contrary I think this is a fair position to take.
Loan 3 (taken September 2017): Etika says here that Mrs V did not receive four 
elements of the contract. So it applied a credit to this loan account representing the 
elements of the contract not provided to Mrs V in line with the approach Ive 
described. I think this is a fair position to take on this loan.
Loan 4 (taken in November 2017): In this case Etika found six elements of the 
contract were not provided. So it credited the appropriate amount to this loan account 
which resulted in Etika owing Mrs V money. So it offered to refund this overpayment 
by Mrs V with 8% interest applied. I consider this to be fair in the circumstances.
Loan 5 (taken in September 2018): In this case Etika found nineteen elements had 
not been provided. So it applied a credit to this loan account representing the 
elements of the contract not provided to Mrs V in line with the approach Ive 
described. I think this is a fair position to take on this loan.
Taking everything together and bearing in mind the evidence available I think Etikas 
approach to these loans in view of the accepted breach of contract by the salon is fair.
Mrs V argues that applying a cost to items which were badged as being free or were 
discounted to nominated values which are lower than the costs Etika has applied to them is 
unfair. However it is clear that items provided either discounted to no cost or at a reduced 
cost as part of a larger agreement (with significant cost) do have some individual value both 
intrinsically and in conjunction with the other goods and services. 
And it is also clear that other methodologies to redress such matters could lead to 
significantly more unfairness in the round than this methodology. So in the interests of 
fairness to consumers I consider this approach to be fair. Furthermore I think it fair that any 
outstanding debt for Mrs V is based on the premise that she pays for the goods and services 
she did receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. 
Mrs V says Etika didnt do enough with regard to the salon and should have known it was a 
scam. But this service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that this salon was a scam. And 
after all it is clear that goods and services were provided over an extended period of time by 
the salon to customers including Mrs V.
In short, Ive considered everything that Mrs V has said. I appreciate how Mrs V feels about 
the whole situation and I can understand the situation she finds herself in now is decidedly 
different to that she set out to be in when she first agreed terms with the Etika. But I must 
restate that Etika and the salon arent the same thing. And just because she feels the salon 
treated her unfairly doesnt necessarily mean Etika did also.
I dont think what Etika has done with regard to the Section 75 claim has meant that Mrs V 
has been treated unfairly by it. I think Etikas decision to acknowledge the breaches of contract and credit four of her five loans is fair. Regarding the other loan where Etika has 
said it isnt crediting the account because Mrs V received all those goods and services, I 
think Etika has treated her here fairly as well. 
So overall I think the way Etika has treated Mrs V in relation to these breaches of contract is 
fair. Accordingly, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Etika Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman