DRN-2924268
The complaint
Mrs P complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to give her a loan to fund the purchase of a fixed term 
revolving agreement for timeshare weeks (the product) and BPF was wrong to decline 
claims she made arising out of the transaction.
The product agreement is in the joint names of Mrs P and her husband but the loan 
agreement is in Mrs Ps sole name. This means Mrs P is the complainant who is eligible to 
bring a complaint to our service so Ive referred to her alone in this decision.
Mrs P is represented by a firm of solicitors but to keep things simple I will refer (generally) to 
everything thats been said on her behalf as if Mrs P said it herself.
What happened
Mrs P purchased the product in October 2008 funded in full by a loan from BPF. It cost 
£10,694 and Mrs P repaid the outstanding loan balance in September 2009. Mrs P says 
misrepresentations were made, she was treated unfairly during the sale process and no 
affordability checks were done. She wants BPF to give her a refund of the total cost.
BPF thinks it is too late, under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), for Mrs P to bring claims under
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). BPF also considers Mrs P is
out of time to refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under our rules.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. 
She was satisfied that we can consider Mrs Ps complaint because (in summary): -
Mrs P complains that BPF failed to fulfil its obligations because she hasnt had satisfactory 
compensation for her claims:
our rules say we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than six 
years after the event complained of or (if later) three years from the date on which 
the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that 
she had cause for complaint - unless the failure to comply with the time limits was as 
a result of exceptional circumstances;
when assessing and declining a claim under the CCA, BPF is exercising its rights 
and duties under a regulated credit agreement and the event complained of here is 
BPFs decision in early 2020 to decline Mrs Ps claim about the product sale,
Mrs P brought her complaint to us a few weeks later - within the six-year time limit set 
out in our rules - and we can look into it.
The investigator went on to consider the merits and said: -
under section 75 BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so, if the time 
for bringing a claim against the supplier has expired under the LA, this would be the 
same for any like claim against BPF - which is something BPF could reasonably 
take into account;
Mrs P raises allegations of misrepresentation, she has six years under the LA to 
bring her claim and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and 
contract;
misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has 
suffered damage and any damage would have occurred here when Mrs P 
experienced a financial loss as a result of purchasing the product (in that, Mrs P says 
the purchase caused financial loss due to the suppliers misrepresentations and she 
wouldnt have bought the product except for those misrepresentations);
this means the point of loss for Mrs P was when she entered into the transaction to 
buy the product in October 2008 (and accepted the cost and any potential benefit) so 
Mrs P needed to raise her section 75 claim no later than October 2014 but she didnt 
complain to BPF until December 2019;
Mrs P may not have known that she could raise concerns about misrepresentation 
before that but the relevant time limit starts to run from the date of loss, which may 
fall earlier than the date she realised that something might have gone wrong;
under section 140A of the CCA a court may make an order under section 140B if it is 
determined that the relationship between the creditor and debtor arising out of the 
agreement is unfair to the debtor - only a court has the power to decide this but 
section 140A is relevant law that we need to take into consideration;
the LA applies to a section 140A claim, Mrs P had six years to bring such a claim and 
she would have needed to do so no later than September 2015 but she didnt 
complaint to BPF until several years later meaning this claim is more than likely time 
barred;
Mrs P hasnt provided enough evidence to reasonably conclude that it was 
irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan and the borrowing was unaffordable for him.
The investigator thought Mrs Ps claims had more than likely exceeded the relevant time
limits. And, although this for the courts to decide, it wasnt unreasonable for BPF to take this
into account. She wasnt persuaded that BPFs decision to decline Mrs Ps claims was unfair
or unreasonable in the circumstances and she didnt recommend the complaint should be
upheld.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. her representatives 
have made fairly detailed submissions which Ive read carefully. I have summarised these 
below for ease of reference: -
high pressure sales tactics were used  amongst other things, Mrs P attended a 
sales event which lasted six hours, she wasnt allowed to leave and had to sign 
complex contractual documentation without the chance to review it properly;
no affordability checks were undertaken and the lending was irresponsible and 
unaffordable;
the merchant sold the product as a floating weeks timeshare and this was in breach of the EU Timeshare Directive and Mrs P cold only reasonably have been made 
aware of this when she sought professional help in 2019.
misrepresentations, that were false (and known to be false) were made with the 
intention of inducing Mrs P to enter these agreements, she relied on what was said 
and experienced loss as a result, she could not have known that the 
misrepresentations were fraudulent - and what remedy was available - until she 
instructed her representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not minded to
require BPF to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence
and the wider circumstances.
I want to assure Mrs P, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But,
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a
fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF
says it doesnt, because Mrs P is complaining about events that took place in 2008 and it 
was more than six years before she brought her complaint to us.
The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook.
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mrs P is
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because she feels BPF failed to 
fulfil its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims she made under sections 75 and 
140A arising out of her purchase of the product.
Jurisdiction and Mrs Ps section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity.
I find the event (as referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mrs P is complaining hereabout is BPFs rejection of the claim that she made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is
when BPF declined her complaint in early 2020. Mrs P brought this complaint to our
service not long after that and Im satisfied hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of
Mrs Ps complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it.
Jurisdiction and section 140A
Mrs P also considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier here resulted in an 
unfair relationship between her and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A 
of the CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within 
our jurisdiction.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of (for the
purposes of section 140A) took place at the point of sale in July 2010. I cant reasonably
conclude that this part of Mrs Ps complaint was brought to us within the six-year period set
out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So, Ive gone on to consider the
second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mrs P knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he
had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).
Mrs Ps representatives say she first became aware that she had cause for complaint in 
2019 when she sought professional advice. From the evidence Ive got, taking into account 
the acts and omissions that Mrs P has complained about, I think she should reasonably have 
known that something might have gone wrong as a result of the suppliers acts and/or 
omissions before that. But I accept this is not the same as Mrs P knowing that she had 
cause for complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mrs P may have known that something might 
have gone wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to assume that she would 
have realised that this might have made the relationship between her and BPF unfair  or 
that she had grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mrs P would have needed to know there was a problem that
caused her to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that
Mrs P knew (or ought to have known) that she had cause for complaint against BPF before
2019. Im satisfied she brought her complaint to us within three years of that and I find this
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction.
Merits of the complaint
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs P
brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA and Im
considering whether BPF has provided a fair and reasonable response to those claims in
this decision.
Our investigator says any right that Mrs P had to bring these claims against BPF is probably
out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I think its something that BPF could
reasonably take into account when it decided to decline Mrs Ps claims. I should make it 
clear however that I am not deciding here if any right that Mrs P may have to bring these 
claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the supplier. In this complaint, Mrs P claims that misrepresentations were made and I 
think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant.Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of action accrued here
will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged under section 75
became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered.
Im satisfied any relevant damage was incurred when Mrs P purchased the product and took
out the finance - in October 2008. Amongst other things, this was when she paid for the 
benefits which she says were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mrs P would have 
needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date she entered into the 
transaction to purchase the product. Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since 
that date before Mrs P contacted BPF - in December 2019. It looks as if the period within 
which she had to bring an action under section 75 had run out by that point and I cant 
reasonably find it was wrong of BPF to decline Mrs Ps section 75 claim.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising out of
the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable is six years from the date the debtor-creditor
relationship ended which is in September 2009. 
On the related agreement running on, all of the case law talks about the relationship ending 
when the borrowing is repaid (Patel at para 65-66, Smith at 66-70). And s.140A talks about 
an order in connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between 
the creditor and the debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any 
related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following. So its 
the relationship between creditor and debtor thats in issue and that has to be through the 
working of a credit agreement, so once thats repaid the relationship must end.
As such I am satisfied that the loan was repaid in 2009 and so that is the date the time limit 
began running which means any claim would have had to have been made by September 
2015. think any right Mrs P had to bring a claim under section 140A had likely expired by 
that stage. And Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline this claim.
12 Year Extension Under S 8
Mrs P has argued that her claim is supported by the judgement in Patel v Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB). She says that her claim is based on a specialty and that the effect of 
section 8 of the Limitation Act is that the limitation period is twelve years from the end of the 
relationship between the parties. I do not consider that the 12 year extension for speciality 
case applies to Mrs Ps claim. Mrs P says the relationship was ongoing until 2019 when the 
timeshare was relinquished and that was the beginning of the limitation period. Furthermore, 
in Nolan v Wright [2009] EWHC 305 (Ch) the judge said:
As such, a 12 year limitation period applies unless the claim expressly extends to the 
repayment of money previously paid under the credit bargain, in which event the application 
will be governed by section 9 and subject to a 6 year limitation period accordingly.  
In my view, it is clear that Mrs Ps purpose in bringing this complaint is to try to recover from 
BPF money paid under the loan agreement  along with other sums. It is not, for example, to have the terms of an ongoing loan agreement changed. The letter of 2 December 2019 set 
out the relief sought by Mrs P.
The relationship with the merchant continued until 2019, but there was no ongoing 
relationship with BPF. That ended when the loan was settled in September 2009. I therefore 
agree with the investigator that the limitation period for this part of the claim is six years and 
that it started in October 2008. It is likely that a court would conclude that an action brought 
under section 140A would be out of time. Again, BPFs response was therefore fair and 
reasonable. 
Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened when Mrs P
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant
documentation) I think there was an obligation to give Mrs P sufficient appropriate and timely
information to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan.
But, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose - or advice was provided - that could give rise to
a claim to which this section could apply.
Unaffordable lending
Mrs P says proper credit checks were not carried out and it was irresponsible of BPF to
provide this loan. Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to reasonably
conclude that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs P. And I cant see that Mrs P has 
provided much by way of further evidence about this after the investigator sent her view. But, 
even if I were to accept that BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, I 
would need to be satisfied that the lending was actually unaffordable for Mrs P (and she lost 
out as a result) in order to uphold this part of her complaint.
In considering this, I can only take into account the standards that applied at the relevant
time. I havent got much information about Mrs Ps circumstances then. From the evidence I
have seen, Im not persuaded there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to conclude
that the loan was unaffordable for Mrs P. And Im unable to uphold this aspect of his
complaint.
EU Directive
I dont see how this impacts the time limits imposed by the LA. If the underlying agreement 
was null and void then that might be an argument about unfairness, but that doesnt mean 
limitation changes. However, I am not commenting on the validity or otherwise of the 
agreement. Quite simply this issue does not alter the effect of the rules within in the LA and 
the claim remains out of time.
Conclusions
As the investigator explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs P
may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see
from the information available, any relevant claim has most likely exceeded the time limits
set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account and (for the reasons set
out) Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold Mrs Ps
complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mrs P unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant
properly require BPF to compensate her or do anything else.My final decision
My final decision is that this service is able to consider Mrs Ps complaint and, having done 
so, I do not uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman