DRN-4116421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim they made on their 
home insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L held a home insurance policy with AXA. When their home suffered an escape 
of water, they made a claim to AXA. AXA accepted the claim.
But Mr and Mrs L complain about how AXA settled it. The escape of water damaged some of 
the upstands in the kitchen. And AXA contributed 50% toward the undamaged upstands too.
But it didnt contribute toward the undamaged worktops. It said it considered these a 
separate part.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think this was fair. They thought it should be considered a matching set 
because the worktops were designed to match the upstands, so they both needed to look 
the same.
AXA didnt change its stance, so Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us. One of our 
investigators didnt think AXA needed do anything more.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023. It said that based on what Id seen, I was 
thinking of upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. That decision said:
Mr and Mrs Ls policy with AXA says The insurer will treat any individual items of a 
matching set or suite of furniture, sanitary ware or other bathroom fittings as a single 
item. The insurer will pay you for individual damaged items but not for undamaged 
companion pieces. If the individual damaged items cannot be repaired or a 
replacement found the insurer will also pay up to 50% towards the undamaged part 
of the suite of furniture, sanitary ware or bathroom fittings.
From this, its clear the policy provides a contribution of 50% to undamaged parts of  
matching set where a repair or replacement of the damaged part cant be done. And 
in this case, the upstands were no longer available, so an alternative replacement 
needed to be found.
AXA acted in line with the policy when contributing 50% of the cost of the upstands.
But AXA considers the worktops to be a separate part and not a matching set.
Im not persuaded thats fair. The worktops in most kitchens are designed to either 
match or contrast with the upstands  with the vast majority matching.
Mr and Mrs L purchased the kitchen as one design, and it was clearly intended that 
the worktops match the upstands. So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do 
would be to consider the worktops as part of the matching set and contribute 50% of 
the cost to replace them.
Not having the claim paid as they thought and having to find more money themselves 
to pay for the worktops would have been distressing. And the chasing of AXA to try 
and get it to change its mind would have been inconvenient too. For that, AXA should 
pay Mr and Mrs L a total of £100 compensation.
AXA accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
Mr and Mrs L made further comment. In summary they said theyve not yet received any 
settlement on this claim (theyve not been paid for the part AXA originally agreed to pay), 
they feel the fitting costs should be made explicit and they dont think the £100 
compensation is reflective of the distress and inconvenience they experienced. They also 
didnt think there was anything to discourage AXA from acting this way with other customers. 
They also wanted an apology from AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision.
I will however make comment on Mr and Mrs Ls further points.
In relation to the settlement. The complaint brought to us was that AXA wouldnt contribute to 
the worktops and would only contribute to the upstands. My decision is that AXA need to 
contribute to the worktops. So, this is in addition to its original offer. So, if no settlement had 
been paid, when AXA does pay Mr and Mrs L, it should include both the worktops and the 
upstands.
In relation to the costs, I understand Mr and Mrs L think these should be made explicitly 
clear. But I disagree and dont think its necessary to move things forward.
And I understand Mr and Mrs L arent happy with the compensation. But Im satisfied its 
sufficient in the circumstances. Our role isnt to punish AXA. It is to make sure it puts Mr and 
Mrs L back in the position they should have been had no error been made. My decision 
makes it clear that I thought AXA were acting unfairly here.
I understand Mr and Mrs L want an apology form AXA too. But Im not going to require that. 
AXA had its opportunity to apologise throughout the life of this claim and complaint and 
chose not to. Thats a decision its entitled to take. But asking it to apologise now, is a 
somewhat empty gesture. So, for that reason, its not something Im going to ask it to do. In 
any event, the compensation Im recommending is to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience AXAs actions caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:Pay Mr and Mrs L 50% of the cost of the replacement undamaged worktops. 8% 
interest should also be added to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the 
date AXA offered to settle the initial part of the claim for the upstands, to the date it 
makes this payment.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman