DRN-4243662
The complaint
Mr S complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, didnt refund him for a 
payment he disputes.
What happened
Mr S disputes a bank transfer of £3,727.93 that was made from his Chase account in 
February this year. He says he didnt make the transfer and doesnt know who the payee is. 
Mr S complained to Chase after it didnt agree that the transaction was unauthorised. Chase 
stood by its position, so Mr S asked this service for an independent review of his complaint.
Mr S submissions include:
On the 5th or 6th of February, Mr S noticed a problem with his mobile phone, which he 
uses to access his account via mobile banking. Mr S says it seemed like his phone reset 
itself, deleting several apps. He spent a few days trying to reinstall the Chase app, 
verifying his ID in line with Chases requirements, before successfully gaining access 
again on 11 February.
At this point he noticed a transfer that he didnt recognise. He thinks his phone may have 
been hacked by a third party. 
Mr S told Chase that he has no idea how someone was able to carry out this transaction 
as hes never shared any log in information, nor has he recorded these details anywhere. 
He adds that he hasnt received any suspicious communications and has always been in 
possession of his card and phone. 
Mr S holds other accounts with Chase and there were no transactions that he doesnt 
recognise made from these accounts around the same time.
Mr S says that Chase is liable for allowing the payment, especially given the value of it 
wasnt typical of his banking activity. Mr S adds that Chases refusal to refund him has 
caused him stress and impacted his health.
Our investigator concluded that Chase had acted fairly as she couldnt see how a third party 
couldve carried out this payment without Mr S authorisation. The investigator also couldnt 
see how Mr S mobile phone and log in details couldve been compromised. Mr S doesnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chase can generally only hold Mr S responsible for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests it was more likely than not that he authorised them. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think its most likely that Mr S, or someone he authorised, carried out this transaction  Ill 
explain why.
Mr S thinks his phone was hacked by a third party, who he thinks is also responsible for the 
disputed payment. However, the information and records Chase has sent us make me think 
this is unlikely.
Chases records show that Mr S device had been removed from mobile banking on 
7 February, which coincides with what Mr S says about losing access to the mobile banking 
app. The last log in before the device was removed was around the same time the disputed 
payment took place. Chase says the disputed payment was authenticated using Mr S 
passcode and Im satisfied that its records demonstrate this. Based on Mr S submissions, I 
cant see how anyone other than Mr S himself wouldve known or had access to his 
passcode. 
Moreover, Chases records indicate that the same device was used for the disputed payment 
and the online banking access that took place after Mr S says he regained access to the 
app. So, as the only person with access to Mr S phone and passcode, Im of the view that 
its most likely that he authorised this payment. 
The details of the payment itself suggests its unlikely that an unknown third party carried out 
the payment without Mr S consent. The value of the payment is for a distinctly specific 
amount, and I understand a balance of around £260 remained in Mr S account. Mr S also 
held other accounts with Chase at the time, all of which could be accessed via his mobile 
banking. No funds were taken from these other accounts either.
So, if as Mr S says, someone hacked into his phone and had unauthorised access to his 
mobile banking, it seems likely to me that the third party would take steps to take as much as 
possible, rather than leave funds available in Mr S accounts. Given this didnt happen, Im 
not persuaded that the disputed payment was unauthorised. Moreover, Mr S confirmed that 
he hasnt clicked on any suspicious links, hes received no suspicious contact via his phone, 
nor has he visited any suspicious websites. Mr S confirms hes always been in possession of 
his phone too. 
Its also unlikely that an unauthorised individual was able to carry out this transaction without 
having access to Mr S phone, his passcode and the Chase app. Nor have I seen anything 
that suggests this information was gleaned from him another way. So I cant see that theres 
a point at which his phone was compromised  which makes it difficult for me to fairly 
conclude that Mr S phone was indeed hacked as he says it was.
Mr S says Chase shouldve noticed that the payment wasnt typical of his banking activity 
and stopped it from being processed. I dont agree. Although the amount may have been 
unusual for Mr S, Im persuaded the activity wasnt unusual enough for Chase to have 
intervened. And, as I said earlier, it seems Mr S authorised the payment using his passcode 
 which is only known to him. Ive also seen nothing that makes me think there was cause 
for Chase to investigate this payment further before it was processed. So I wouldnt expect 
Chase to have stopped this payment or carry out extra checks. 
Overall, it seems more likely to me that Mr S authorised the payment he now disputes. I 
acknowledge his concerns that his phone was hacked, but the information Ive seen doesnt 
persuade me that this is what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman