DRN-2137941
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt notify him of the consequence of
cancelling a direct debit on his 123 account.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining what happened and my 
provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr T took out a Santander 123 account in May 2013.
He was eligible for the account as he was over 18 years of age and a UK resident. And he
was eligible for a higher interest rate and cashback because he had two direct debits going
out of the account, he paid in at least £500 a month, he maintained a balance of over £1000
and he paid the monthly fee.
In 2016 he cancelled one of the direct debits and so became no longer eligible for the higher
interest rate and cashback.
Mr T says that Santander should have told him at the time that he would no longer be
eligible for the higher interest rate and cashback and that he lost out because it didnt do so.
Our investigator looked into this and decided to uphold his complaint. Santander disagrees
and so, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle
complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to
help me decide Mr Ts complaint.
I dont think Santander did anything wrong or failed to do anything it should have done, and
Ill explain why.
The Santander 123 account is a particular type of account, in that it provides a higher level
of interest and cashback to the consumer provided the consumer complies with the specific
requirements listed above. Mr T invested a substantial sum of money into the account, so I
think its more likely than not that he looked carefully at the requirements when he opened it.
And he complied with the requirements including opening two direct debits on the account.
He also held another Santander 123 account with a substantial sum in it.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr T was told by Santander at the time the account
was opened how the account worked and what he needed to do to be eligible for the higher
interest rate and cashback, and he understood this.
Mr T says that it was he that decided to close one of the direct debits and asked Santander
to do so. Ive seen Mr Ts account statements after he did this, and they clearly show that he
was receiving no interest or cashback on the account. And to be clear, he was still eligible
for the account as he was over 18 and living in the UK, it was only the higher interest rate
and cashback he was no longer eligible for.
So, in my view, as Mr T knew the terms and conditions of the account, and he could see that
he wasnt receiving interest or cashback on his statements and it was for him to either close
the account or open a replacement direct debit.
Our investigator referred to BCOBS, the banking code of practice, and its requirement on
banks to inform a consumer if it changes an accounts terms and conditions. But in my view,
Santander didnt change the terms and conditions of the account, those terms and
conditions remained the same. So, Santander wasnt required by the code to do any special
notification is this situation.
So, in my view, Santander didnt do anything wrong or fail to do anything it should have done
when Mr T closed one of his direct debits in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr T did not respond to the provisional decision.
So, my conclusions remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman