DRN-2979016
The complaint
S, a limited company, has complained Cater Allen Limited, trading as Cater Allen Bank, 
wont refund transactions that werent authorised.
Mr S, the director of S, has represented them in this complaint.
What happened
In October 2019, Cater Allen phoned Mr S to warn about unusual transactions on Ss 
account. It turned out that Mr Ss son had downloaded a game from iTunes. Mr S contacted 
Apple who confirmed they would refund those disputed payments. Mr S confirmed this to 
Cater Allen in a subsequent conversation.
At the time of the initial conversation with Cater Allen, Mr S asked them to block future 
payments with iTunes but Cater Allen said they couldnt do this. Mr S then had a 
conversation with Apple about how to cancel any future payments.
Mr S then discovered numerous other transactions amounting to over £3,000 had been 
made to iTunes after 23 October. He asked Cater Allen to refund these as S had not 
authorised these transactions. Mr S was concerned Ss account had been hacked as he 
didnt believe his son  whod downloaded the initial game  could be responsible for 
spending so much money.
Cater Allen wouldnt refund S. They believed the transactions had been authorised as Mr S 
had taken no steps to cancel the link between Ss debit card and the iTunes account.
Mr S brought Ss complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened based on the evidence from both Mr S and 
Cater Allen. He also noted what the Payment Services Regulations stated about apparent 
authority. Overall he felt Mr S had taken no steps to stop Ss card being used. He agreed 
Cater Allen had been right in rejecting Ss claim for a refund.
Mr S asked an ombudsman to consider Ss complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 15 July 2021.
I didnt believe the evidence pointed to S having authorised the transactions. However I did 
believe their actions had contributed in part to what had happened. I asked Cater Allen to 
reimburse two-thirds of the disputed transactions.
Mr S accepted this outcome on Ss behalf. He did point out that our calculations were 
incorrect. Id stated transactions amounting to £2,412.39 but more than £3,000 had been 
spent on iTunes from the start of the second set of disputed transactions authorised on 
24 October 2019 onwards.
Cater Allen had no further comments or evidence to provide.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did on my provisional decision, 
taking into account Mr Ss comments. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Cater Allen and 
Mr S on Ss behalf. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 12 April 2021 but 
feel no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those 
aspects which drive the decision Im making.
Were the transactions authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Ss complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or 
authorise payments themselves. 
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of S can be treated as acting 
with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and S needs to 
have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by Cater 
Allen. In other words, Ss genuine card was used to make them with the required checks 
carried out.
Turning to consent, I think all the evidence suggests Mr Ss son was using his new game 
and making in-app purchases. I dont really buy the idea that Ss account was hacked. All 
the transactions took place in the time Mr Ss son would have been home from school. 
Mr Ss son may well know he shouldnt be racking up transactions but experience of this and 
similar cases show that the pricing is not always as transparent as one would expect.
Our investigator suggested S was providing apparent authority to Mr Ss son to make the 
iTunes transactions. However hes also stated that apparent authority can be withdrawn or 
annulled by the payment service user (S in this context). On balance, I believe S had 
withdrawn any apparent authority. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr S made it clear to both Cater Allen and Apple that transactions undertaken on 18 
and 19 October had not been authorised by S so why would S have authorised the 
later set of even more expensive transactions?
Apple refunded transactions on 18 and 19 October confirming they accepted Mr Ss explanation that transactions had not been authorised.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say S authorised these transactions. But 
this doesnt end here. There are further considerations for me to apply to this case. 
Specifically whether S contributed to what happened?
Firstly Ill consider whether Cater Allen could have done more to stop the disputed 
transactions and protect Ss account.
Could Cater Allen have done more?
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PSRs and the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the 
bank shouldve identified any unusual or out of character transactions that could involve 
fraud or financial abuse. There is industry guidance on this in the 2017 BSI Code of Practice 
on Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. 
Cater Allen was on notice of disputed transactions from Ss account to iTunes. Mr S had 
complained before and had notified them S was receiving a refund. So, when the 
transactions began again just a few days later, I would have expected Cater Allen to have 
intervened.
Not only that but I cant see there was any pattern of iTunes transactions. Yes there was a 
monthly transaction for 79p but no history of the type of transactions that happened that 
month. And Id add that S is a limited company so this should have led to questions being 
raised about the transactions that were processed.
From what I can see I believe this did happen. A further block was placed on Ss card on 
26 October. Mr S spoke to Cater Allen that day and asked for the block to be released. 
However Im not sure Mr S was aware at that stage of the numerous iTunes transactions 
being processed.
So overall and on balance, I think its fair and reasonable to say Cater Allen ought to have 
done more. They could have made it explicit to Mr S that a block related to further iTunes 
transactions. I think it likely  knowing what Mr S subsequently did  that he would have 
confirmed on the spot those hadnt been authorised.
Contributory negligence
The next question I must consider is whether S should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. Of course, I take into account Cater Allens responsibilities, but I 
must also consider whether S acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances in 
the case and whether their actions contributed to the loss  and I think they did.
Mr S had spoken to Apple previously. He doesnt dispute being given information about how 
to delink Ss card from the iTunes account. I appreciate he didnt expect his son to be able to 
run up the number and value of transactions that occurred. But I think he could also have 
taken steps to prevent Ss loss. That would also include monitoring Ss account with Cater 
Allen as hed have been alerted earlier to the transactions that were subsequently disputed.
Putting things right
The overriding aspect is that the transactions werent authorised but I think its fair and 
reasonable in this case for S to bear one third of the financial losses for the reasons set out above.
What that means is that Cater Allen must reimburse two thirds of the amount S lost on 
disputed transactions. On re-calculation I believe this figure stands at £3,030.91. I will also 
be asking Cater Allen to refund any interest this money would have attracted had it stayed in 
S's account.
Mr S has also told us that two other accounts he operates  a bank account and an online 
payment scheme  both undertake additional checks to monitor suspicious activity. Its not 
my role to tell Cater Allen what systems and processes to adopt. Thats the domain of the 
regulator and existing good practice. But, in fact, as I highlight above they could have done 
more in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Cater Allen Limited, trading as 
Cater Allen Bank, to:
Refund two-thirds of the £3,030.91 S lost on iTunes transactions authorised on and 
after 24 October 2019; and
Add 8% simple interest to the refund for the value of those transactions from the date 
they debited Ss account until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman