DRN-3216390
The complaint
Mrs H complained because TSB Bank Plc refused to refund her for a transaction which she 
said she didnt make.
What happened
On 14 January 2020, Mrs H rang TSB to dispute a pending transaction which shed noticed 
on her account. TSB said that pending transactions cant be stopped until the payments 
have been claimed, so it investigated after the £97.45 debit had gone through on 16 
January. 
TSB didnt agree to refund Mrs H for the disputed transaction, and Mrs H complained. In its 
final response, TSB explained that it had spoken to the online merchant, which confirmed 
that it had a full match for Mrs Hs details, including her name, address and phone number. 
The merchant had also said it had sent the slimming pills ordered by a tracked delivery 
service and had evidence showing the order had been successfully delivered to Mrs Hs 
address. The merchant offered to provide this to Mrs H, and TSB gave her the merchants 
phone number so she could ring them about the tracking.
TSB also commented on Mrs Hs belief that, because shed had several previous fraud 
claims, that proved that this claim was genuine. But TSB said that wasnt the case, and 
every fraud claim was assessed individually. It also pointed out that all the fraud claims shed 
raised had been on different cards. So there wasnt a link to any previously compromised 
card.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said she hadnt received the 
goods, and wouldnt have ordered slimming pills because shes diabetic. She said that the 
lost £97.45 had meant she couldnt pay for gas, electric, and food. She was unhappy that 
TSB took the merchants word for what had happened, instead of hers.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint, and thought TSB should refund the disputed 
payment. 
TSB didnt agree. It said that there was strong evidence that Mrs H had made the order. The 
merchant had had all Mrs Hs correct details. And TSB pointed out that Mrs Hs card which 
had been used for the transaction had only been replaced on 16 December 2019, and Mrs H 
hadnt said her card had been left unattended. It asked whether anyone else in Mrs Hs 
household might have carried out the transaction. TSB asked for an ombudsman decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations about disputed transactions
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations for this disputed transaction are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, TSB) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Id seen the computer 
evidence that the transaction was authenticated, using the card which was issued to Mrs H 
on 16 December 2019. So the disputed payment was authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Where payments are distance contracts, as this transaction was, there are additional rules. 
These say that customers arent liable for any payments they didnt authorise  unless they 
are particular types of payment, called excepted contracts.  
So the next step in considering Mrs Hs complaint was to look at whether or not she 
authorised the payment.
Who authorised the disputed payment?
As the disputed transaction was authenticated using Mrs Hs recently issued card, there 
were limited options. 
There was no record that Mrs H had reported to TSB that her card had been lost or stolen. I 
listened to the phone call between Mrs H and our investigator. In it, Mrs H said that she lives 
with her adult son.  She initially said shed been at home on the date of the transaction, but 
then said shed been staying with a daughter. Mrs H said that at first, she thought the 
disputed transaction had been carried out by her ex-husband, but hed left some years 
earlier and wasnt at her home in late 2019. 
She also said that shed spoken to all her children about the disputed payment. Her oldest 
daughter had a colleague whod had a similar transaction. Mrs H had spoken to this person, 
who had told her that her bank hadnt refunded her because shed received a product. Mrs H 
said she didnt receive any goods. 
I listened to the phone call between TSBs fraud department and the merchant. In that call, 
the merchant said the transaction was a trial offer, which Mrs H had carried out on 28 
December, and under the terms and conditions she had 14 days to return the goods if she 
didnt want them. If she didnt return them, the debit would then be made  and this took 
place on 16 January. The merchant also told TSB that it possessed proof that the tracked 
goods had been delivered. 
TSB told Mrs H that the merchant had proof of confirmed tracked delivery  and gave her a 
phone number to follow this up. If Mrs H hadnt authorised the transaction and hadnt 
received the goods, Id have expected her to have phoned the number promptly, to find out 
what the merchant really had  and to dispute that. Ive seen nothing to show that she 
followed this up.
I also noted that as well as Mrs Hs correct new card details, the merchant had her correct 
name, address, and phone number. If Mrs H, or someone close to her, hadnt authorised the 
transaction, its hard to see how the merchant would have obtained these details.If the transaction was fraudulent, there were some things which dont add up. A third party 
fraudster wouldnt be likely to order goods to be sent to Mrs Hs home. And a fraudster 
wouldnt stop at one transaction. I appreciated that immediately after the disputed 
transaction, the account balance was low, but money was paid in later in January and in 
mid-February. 
I recognised that Mrs H also told the investigator that shed had a similar disputed 
transaction a month or so before, which TSB had refunded. She said that at that point shed 
asked TSB to notify her of any large payments. In its final response, TSB said that it had 
tried to ring Mrs H at the time of the transaction, but the number had been engaged and 
there was no facility to leave a message. It said it had gone on to contact the merchant. I 
accepted that Mrs H would have liked to speak to TSB at that point, but in practice I didnt 
consider it would have made any difference to the outcome. TSB would still have contacted 
the merchant as well. And I thought it was still likely to have reached the same conclusion in 
view of the evidence.
The key issue here was that Mrs Hs genuine card was used, and there was no clear way in 
which a fraudster could have got hold of her recently-issued card. And the pattern of the 
transaction didnt match that of a fraudster, because the goods were sent to Mrs Hs home, 
and there were no later attempted debits. 
So I considered it was more likely than not that Mrs H carried out the transaction herself. Its 
possible that Mrs H forgot shed authorised it, or that she allowed someone such as a family 
member to carry out the transaction. I couldnt tell for certain what happened, but in any of 
these situations, Mrs H would still be responsible for the authorisation. This means that my 
provisional decision was that I dont intend to order TSB to refund Mrs H.
responses to my provisional decision
TSB said it had nothing to add.
Mrs H said she wasnt happy with the outcome and wanted TSB to take responsibility for its 
part in the slimming pills. She sent a detailed letter with multiple points including:
- Although her ex-husband had moved out of the property, he still had a key;
- She wouldnt have bought slimming pills because she was diabetic, and also if shed 
bought a trial product shed have read the information first;
- Shed never been sent evidence proving shed ordered the products; there was no 
evidence that the company had phoned her; and no evidence the pills had been sent 
to her;
- She didnt know how the company had got her bank details;
- She wouldnt have signed up for a free trial because it was Christmas time; 
- Shed asked about the company on social media, where people had told her theyd 
never heard of the company, or they were a waste of space or the pills were fake;
- She said that TSBs 100% fraud refund guarantee was false advertising.
Mrs H also said that since splitting up with her husband, she used a different name. But 
when the investigator asked if shed like us to use her other name, Mrs H didnt reply. So Ive 
continued to refer to her as Mrs H in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and in particular Mrs Hs points. 
Mrs H has raised multiple points in her submissions to the service. Ive understood and 
looked into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Hs comments. But they dont address the main points which 
lead me to think that it was more likely than not that it was Mrs H herself who authorised the 
transaction. Ive set these out above. They include the fact that the merchant had Mrs Hs 
correct name, address, and phone number. And whoever authorised the transaction had Mrs 
Hs genuine card  and the goods were sent to Mrs Hs home address. I cant see how a 
fraudster would have obtained Mrs Hs  genuine details in the circumstances she described 
 nor why a fraudster would have given Mrs Hs address for the goods to be sent to. A 
fraudster would use the card to obtain goods for their own benefit.
In her reply to the provisional decision, Mrs H told us that although her ex-husband had 
moved out of the property, he still had a key. This is different from what shed said before, 
but even if her ex-husband had secretly obtained her card and returned it without her 
knowledge, it seems unlikely hed order goods which didnt benefit him and were sent to Mrs 
Hs address. And if he did, this would count as Mrs H not keeping her account details secure, 
and shed still be liable.
Ive considered Mrs Hs argument that she was diabetic and the slimming pills wouldnt have 
been good for her. But I consider its possible that Mrs H didnt realise this until the products 
arrived.
Mrs H hasnt previously specifically complained to TSB that it hadnt honoured its 100% 
fraud refund guarantee. So, strictly speaking, I cant consider that, without TSB answering it 
first. But Id point out that when TSB investigated, it concluded that the transaction which Mrs 
H disputed hadnt been a fraud by an unknown third party. As it didnt consider a fraudster 
had authorised the transaction, I consider it was fair that it didnt refund her under its fraud 
guarantee.
Having reconsidered all the evidence, including Mrs Hs submission after the provisional 
decision, I still consider its more likely than not that the disputed transaction was carried out 
by Mrs H herself, or a close family member with her permission. In either case, TSB doesnt 
have to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman