DRN-1883171
 
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC provided an inaccurate settlement figure for his 
personal loan. He has said when he tried to repay his debt online the settlement figure didnt 
take into account his recent direct debit payment.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The loan settlement figure generated on 13 September 2019 was valid for a period. 
Lloyds has said the settlement figure was valid for 30 days and became invalid on 14 
October 2019.Mr J has acknowledged that he knew the settlement figure would 
elapse but said he thought it was a later date. 
Mr J didnt repay the debt before that settlement figure expired and I think Lloyds was 
within its right not to honour that settlement figure after it timed out.
I understand Mr Js point about the settlement figure being incorrect when he tried to 
repay the debt around 9pm on 13 October 2019 but he didnt contact Lloyds on the 
same day to query the figure, I appreciate he says he felt it was late but from what I 
can see on Lloyds website, it had staff available for queries at that time of the day. 
So, I think Mr J could have chased up his query and potentially corrected the error on 
13 October 2019 before the settlement timed out.
As Mr J didnt do this, the settlement figure expired, and further interest was added to 
the outstanding amount. While theres no clear explanation about why the online 
system had not taken into account the recent direct debit payment, I think Mr J had 
enough time to query the error, he had 30 days from when the settlement figure was 
initially generated and 27 days from when the direct debit payment was taken.
I dont think the settlement figure that showed online when Mr J tried to repay the 
loan in full on 13 October 2019 is enough on its own for me to say that Lloyds has 
been unfair to Mr J. So, I wont be asking it to refund the difference between the 
settlement figure in September 2019 and the settlement figure Mr J paid. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman