DRN-1026177
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Lloyds Bank plc passing his data to a third party. 
What happened
In early June 2019 a third party telephoned Mr D. Mr D says the phone call woke him up. 
Mr D emailed the third party to complain and the third party explained that it was a market 
research company which conducts feedback interviews for Lloyds. They said Lloyds typically 
shares with them details of customers whove recently been in contact with Lloyds so that 
they can get feedback and help Lloyds to improve the services they provide.
Mr D complained to Lloyds, saying that he didnt think he had ever consented to being 
contacted by third parties in respect of his relationship with Lloyds. He objected to Lloyds 
having shared his personal information and said it breached data protection legislation. 
Lloyds said they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They referred Mr D to their Privacy 
Statement and said this specifically states that market research companies might get in 
touch. Lloyds said that by signing the application for his credit card, Mr D had agreed to his 
personal information being used in the ways described in the Privacy Statement.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He thought Lloyds had acted in line with 
their Privacy Statement. So he didnt think Lloyds had made an error and didnt think Lloyds 
needed to do anything more for Mr D.
Mr D wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
case. He said he hadnt consented to marketing communications when the account was 
opened. And he said that even if he had, the introduction of the General Data Protection 
Regulations (GDPR) in 2018 would have meant Lloyds needed to get his renewed consent. 
He says they didnt do this. 
Our investigator replied that he didnt think Lloyds needed to obtain renewed consent under 
the GDPR. Mr D didnt agree with this and the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr D believes there was a breach of legislation in respect of his personal 
information. He can raise this with the Information Commissioners Office if he wants to ask 
for a ruling on this. I dont consider it necessary for me to reach a determination on this point. 
I say this because even if I accepted there was a breach, I dont consider the trouble Mr D 
says he experienced warrants compensation.
Ive considered the facts of this case in full and I can see Mr D wants to be compensated for 
being woken by an unwanted telephone call in the late afternoon. I can understand this was 
a small inconvenience to him but I cant see this would have caused Mr D anything more 
than very minor upset. So, for my purposes, I dont think it matters whether or not there was a data breach. Even if there was, I wouldnt consider it fair or reasonable to ask Lloyds to 
compensate Mr D for such a minor inconvenience. That would effectively be a fine, which I 
dont have any power to levy.
I can see that the third party told Mr D that they would ensure they did not contact him again 
and would liaise with Lloyds to ensure his details were removed entirely from their systems. I 
expect Lloyds has already done so, but in light of Mr Ds comments the bank might want to 
ensure they have updated Mr Ds contact preferences so that his details arent shared with 
any other market research companies.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman