DRN-3665674
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent 
him money on high cost loans which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided three loans to Mr W. In respect of the first two loans, Everyday agreed 
that they had been irresponsibly lent and it proposed a settlement which Mr W accepted, and 
the settlement was paid. I regard that matter as settled.
In respect of the third loan, that was provided on 27 January 2020. It was for £3,000 
repayable over 36 months at a monthly rate of £297. Mr W got into problems over the 
repayments and has entered into a repayment plan with Everyday, which he is paying 
through a debt advice charity. He complained to Everyday about the loan, saying it was 
unaffordable to him.
Everyday said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks, including verifying his income, 
reviewing his latest bank statement, and carrying out a credit check. It assessed his living 
expenses using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It assessed that the loan was 
affordable, as he had a reasonable amount of disposable income to pay the repayments.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that the results of the checks 
Everyday carried out showed Mr Ws total monthly credit repayments represented a 
significant proportion of his income. In those circumstances, she said there was a significant 
risk that Mr W wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without having to
borrow again. 
Everyday disagreed, pointing out that Mr Ws credit commitments only represented 16% of 
his income, which it did not consider to be a significant proportion. It further assessed that he 
would have had a monthly disposable income of over £570 a month. It said he lived with his 
parents so his living costs were minimal.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan[s] would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The new loan repayment would have more than doubled Mr Ws credit commitments. He 
had a relatively modest income and this was the third loan he had obtained through 
Everyday. So Everyday needed to do a thorough assessment of Mr Ws financial 
circumstances. 
Mr W had four credit cards, all of which were near their limit. He also had several loans. This 
loan was partly for consolidation of previous loans, and taking that into account Everyday 
assessed that his credit commitments were around £240 a month. Whilst this figure should 
be higher to take account of a 5% payment on his credit cards and overdraft, nonetheless 
adding Everydays figure to the loan repayment, this still gives a figure of £537 which 
represented 35% of his monthly income of £1,557. Normally we would say that any figure 
above 25% is significant and a potential indicator of unaffordability.
I have gone onto consider Mr Ws monthly disposable income, since a figure of over £570 
potentially shows sufficient spare income. However if I compare these figures with the 
previous figure obtained for the first two loans, I find that Mr Ws outgoings appear to have 
significantly gone down. Firstly, for both previous applications, Mr W was assessed as paying £300 to his parents for 
his rent, but for this loan the figure was set at £0. Also, when he had a lower income, his 
calculated living expenses for the first loan were £522 and for the second loan, £500. For 
this loan it was calculated at £449. So for no good reason that I can see, Mr Ws monthly 
living expenses had gone down by £350 for this loan. Ive taken into account that Mr W may 
have minimised his rental payment to Everyday, but nevertheless it had all the information 
there from previous loans.
Ive also considered that Mr W had an overdraft of £1,375 which appeared to be increasing. 
Everyday had the bank statement available and it certainly appears that Mr Ws income was 
fully committed. 
I would also note that Everyday agreed that both the previous loans were irresponsibly lent. 
Its difficult therefore to make the case that the third loan wasnt irresponsibly lent when 
Mr Ws circumstances hadnt changed.
So, considering Mr Ws high credit to income ratio and doubts over the amount of disposable 
monthly income and the outcome of its review of his two previous loans I dont think that 
Everyday made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
Putting things right
Mr W has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mr W as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr W has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr W
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday to provide the remedy set out under Putting 
things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman