DRN-3948430
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
What happened
Mrs L met one of Zurichs advisers in 1993, when she was 26 years old and earning £16,900 
per year as a teacher. Mrs L had been a member of her employers occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) since she was 22. The adviser recorded Mrs L was married, intended to 
retire at 55 years old and her attitude to risk was a 3 on a scale of 1 (very cautious) to 
4 (speculative). The adviser recommended that Mrs L contribute £42.61 (gross) per month to 
an FSAVC from 1 December 1993. Mrs L met one of Zurichs advisers again in 1998. Zurich  
recorded she still wanted to retire at 55 and had a 3 out of 4 attitude to risk. Mrs L was 
advised to contribute £58.22 (gross) per month to her FSAVC. 
In 2021, Mrs L complained to Zurich about the advice she was given to contribute to her 
FSAVC. Zurich agreed her FSAVC plan was mis-sold. And if it hadnt been mis-sold, Zurich 
thought Mrs L would likely have contributed to her employers in-house Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) scheme. Zurich didnt think Mrs L wouldve chosen to buy added years 
because, in 1993 and 1998, she wanted to retire early  the normal retirement age for her 
OPS was 60.It said retiring early wouldve made buying added years appear to be a less 
attractive proposition for Mrs L. To put things right, Zurich undertook a redress calculation in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance and then offered Mrs L £5,571.58 
compensation. 
Mrs L said if shed been properly advised, she would have chosen to buy two added years in 
her employers OPS. Mrs L said it would have only cost her around £16 a month to buy 
added years  about half of what she was contributing to her FSAVC. Mrs L said her FSAVC 
contributions were also indexed to increase contributions every year, which she believes 
supports that she would have been prepared to buy added years where the cost would rise 
in line with Mrs Ls salary. Mrs L added that in 1993, she was earning an above-average 
salary for her profession and progressing quickly in her career, so she was unlikely to retire 
early. Mrs L referred her complaint to our Service to review. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mrs Ls complaint and thought Zurichs compensation 
offer was fair. Our Investigator said, in summary, they didnt think Mrs L wouldve bought 
added years because she wanted to retire early. And our Investigator thought it was likely 
Mrs L wouldve thought contributions to her employers AVC scheme provided better value 
for money than buying added years. Mrs L didnt agree, reiterating the reasons why she 
wouldve bought added years. Mrs L said she couldve bought added years and made 
additional contributions to an AVC or FSAVC to maximise her retirement benefits. So, this 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs Ls FSAVC was mis-sold. So, the only issue for me to decide is 
how Zurich should put things right. 
At the time of advice, Mrs L would have needed to buy two added years to get the maximum 
benefit from the OPS  if she retired at 60, the usual age for her employers pension 
scheme. And its likely the cost of buying added years would have been considerably less at 
the start than she was contributing to her FSAVC, if shed chosen to buy added years and 
retire at 60. However, the paperwork from 1993 and 1998 very clearly says Mrs L intended 
to retire at 55 years old. These notes are handwritten, which I think suggests they were 
written following a discussion with Mrs L. I know Mrs L has since said she was unlikely to 
retire early, given her promising career trajectory. But the contemporaneous evidence from 
1993 and 1998 is that she intended to retire early. So, if Mrs L had wanted to buy added 
years over a shorter period, in order to retire at 55, this would have made the cost of buying 
added years more expensive than Mrs L has suggested as she would have needed to pay 
for them over a shorter period
Most people would be better off making contributions to their employers in-house AVC 
scheme instead of an FSAVC as the AVC schemes tended to have lower charges than 
FSAVCs. I accept its possible, as Mrs L has said, that she would have been better off now if 
shed bought added years instead of contributing to an AVC. This is because investment 
returns at the time of the advice given in 1993 and 1998 have not performed as predicted. 
But that wasnt anticipated at the time  and I cant use hindsight when making my decision.  
At the time the advice was given, the realistic assumptions of future investment returns 
would probably have shown that the projected benefits from making contributions to her 
employers AVC scheme would be greater than the projected added years benefits.  So, I 
think its unlikely Mrs L would have considered added years to be the cost-effective option 
compared to the projected benefits available from investing in the in-house AVC scheme. 
This is why, on balance, I think Mrs L wouldve likely chosen to contribute to her employers 
in-house AVC scheme. 
Further, there is no evidence from the time of the sale that Mrs L was unwilling to take any 
investment risks. The paperwork completed in 1993 and 1998 show Mrs Ls attitude to risk 
was 3 on  a scale of 1-4, with 1 being very cautious and 4 being speculative. So, I think its 
fair to say the paperwork recorded Mrs M had a medium attitude to risk. The paperwork 
shows Mrs L wasnt unwilling or unable to take any investment risk  I think her recorded 
medium attitude to risk and her general circumstances suggest she had capacity to take 
some investment risk. So, I think contributing to her employers in-house AVC scheme would 
have been suitable for Mrs L at the time. And as Ive said above, it is only with the benefit of 
hindsight that we know the investment returns achieved have been much lower than 
expected.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its more likely than not Mrs L would have 
contributed to her employers AVC scheme instead of buying added years. So, I think 
Zurichs offer of compensation, which appears to be in line with the FSAVC review, is fair. 
However, if Mrs L accepts my decision the calculation will need to be rerun to bring it up to 
date. 
Putting things right
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Ive not upheld this complaint because I think Zurich 
Assurance Ltd made a fair offer to put things right before this complaint was referred to our 
Service to consider. However, when putting things right, Zurich Assurance Ltd should follow 
the methodology Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman