DRN-2016074
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they
made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their home insurance policy through a broker. In May 2019, Mrs M
lost an earring and called Fairmead to make a claim.
Fairmead turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said Mr and Mrs M hadnt taken out
personal possessions cover  an optional add-on - when they took out their policy.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Fairmeads decision. They said their broker had told them
they didnt need to specify items worth less than £1500 on their policy. As the earrings were
worth less than £1500, Mr and Mrs M hadnt specified them. But they had specified another
piece of jewellery that was worth more than £1500 and this was listed on their schedule.
They felt their policy was unclear. So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She considered the
policy terms. She thought the only section of the policy that would cover the circumstances
of the loss was the personal possessions section. So she looked at Mr and Mrs Ms policy
schedule to check what cover they had. She felt the schedule suggested that Mr and Mrs M
had taken personal possessions cover.
The investigator felt the policy schedule was unclear. And she thought it was reasonable for
Mr and Mrs M to think they were covered for the earrings. So she recommended that
Fairmead should deal with Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the personal possessions section of
the policy.
Fairmead disagreed. It said the schedule clearly stated that Mr and Mrs M had only specified
and covered one item under the personal possessions section of the policy. It said that Mr
and Mrs M had chosen to only specify this item and so wouldve known that no other items
were covered. It didnt feel the schedule was ambiguous. And it said that if Mr and Mrs M
werent happy with how the policy had been sold to them, theyd need to complain to their
broker.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I said:
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint here isnt about how the policy was sold to them. Its about
whether the policy documents were clear and unambiguous. The broker sent out those
documents on Fairmeads behalf. But Fairmead was responsible for the contents and how
the information was worded.
Ive carefully considered both the policy terms and the documents that Mr and Mrs M were
sent when their policy renewed in 2018. I agree with our investigator that the only section of
the policy which covers accidental loss of earrings (or other high risk property like jewellery)
is the personal possessions section. So I think this is the only section Mr and Mrs Ms claim
would fall under.
The personal possessions section is set out in the policy terms and it says: Please note that
this section only applies if it is shown on your Schedule of Insurance.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ms Schedule of Insurance. First, Ive considered the
Cover Details. Mr and Mrs Ms schedule sets out the sections of the Home Insurance policy
that apply: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 (my emphasis), 12, 13, 14 & 15.
Section 11 is the personal possessions section of the policy. This suggests Mr and Mrs M
have chosen to include personal possessions cover on their policy. I dont think its at all
clear this was limited to their specified higher value item. I think it wouldve been reasonable
for them to refer to both the Schedule of Insurance and their policy booklet and consider they
were covered by the personal possessions section of the policy. After all, it was shown on
their Schedule of Insurance.
On the second page of the insurance schedule is a box headed Specified Personal
Property. This includes the high value piece of jewellery Mr and Mrs M specifically chose to
cover and the amount it was specified for. This amount was significantly over £1500.
Theres nothing in that box to indicate this was the only item covered by the personal
possessions section of the policy. I accept Fairmead intended this to show that only the
specified item was covered by this section. But looking at the schedule as a whole, Im not
currently persuaded this is sufficiently clear or that it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs M.
Ive thought carefully about everything. Mr and Mrs M have been consistent in telling us that
they were led to think they didnt need to specify anything worth less than £1500. The policy
wording says personal possessions cover applies if its shown on the schedule of insurance.
In this case, it was. I dont think Fairmead made it at all clear on the schedule that Mr and
Mrs Ms personal possessions cover was limited to the one item theyd specified.
The policy terms say single items or sets will be covered up to £1500 with no indication that
these would need to be specified. Mr and Mrs M needed more cover for their higher value
item, so they did choose to specify it. This tallies up with what theyve told us and I find what
theyve said persuasive. I think if the policy schedule and terms had been clearer, theyd
have made sure they had full personal possessions cover.
I say this because Ive borne in mind what Mr and Mrs M did at the next renewal in August
2019. When they learned they didnt have full personal possessions cover, this was added to
their policy. So I think its most likely theyd have taken up this option at the last renewal if
the documents had made it clear enough that they didnt have the cover they wanted.
All in all, I dont currently think the policy documents were sufficiently clear. Wheres theres
ambiguity in the policy wording or documents, I will generally interpret the terms in the
policyholders favour. Thats because they werent the party that wrote the terms and theyve
been disadvantaged by the lack of clarity. So in the particular circumstances of this case, I
think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to think they did have full personal possessions
cover and to expect their claim to be met.
Overall, I currently plan to uphold this complaint because I think the policy terms werent
clear enough. This wrongly led Mr and Mrs M to think they had the cover they needed. So I
currently think Fairmead needs to deal with the claim.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to consider by 26 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.
Fairmead said it intended to get some further information by 3 July 2020. Our investigator let 
Fairmead know if it didnt respond by 4 July 2020, the complaint would be passed back to me to decide. She asked Fairmead to let her know if it needed any additional time. As it 
didnt get back in touch, Ive gone on to reconsider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional findings and Fairmead didnt respond to the 
points I made, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to consider Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the
personal possessions section of the policy, subject to the remaining policy terms and
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman