DRN-3278623
The complaint
Mr D complains that IG Market Limited gave incorrect information on their trading analytics 
tool which caused him to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
Mr D held a Contracts for Difference (CFD) and spreadbetting trading account with IG 
Markets Limited. He says he used IGs trading analytics tool to provide him information on 
his profit and loss on both accounts. He says it displayed incorrect data, showing his account 
to be in profit when in it was at a loss. In one account, it showed a profit of almost £6,000 
when the account ledger showed losses of almost £800. In the other account it showed 
losses of almost £9,000 when account ledger showed losses of almost £28,000. He relied on 
this information available in the analytics tool to make the trading decisions which followed. 
He went on to make losses of around £17,000 in two days. 
Mr D says he would not have traded if he had known the true nature of the account losses or 
that the data was incorrect. He says IG were aware of issues with the analytics tool, but he 
did not know of it. He holds IG responsible for his losses and complained to them in March 
2019. To resolve the complaint, he would like the losses hes incurred on 2nd and 3rd March 
2019 to be reimbursed.
IG issued final response in April 2019 saying they accepted the information on the analytics 
tool was incorrect, but the tool was in its Beta stage which is understood to mean their 
development stage. They say they notified all their customers of this and that Mr D should 
have compared the data with other sources as the analytics tool was an indication only.  
They say they are not responsible for any losses hes incurred as they are a result of the 
trading decisions hes taken on his execution only account. They didnt uphold his complaint, 
but they offered £400 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. The investigator here 
upheld his complaint. She wasnt satisfied that IG made clear to him he needed to cross 
reference the available information. She said they the discrepancy in the account data was 
substantial and was persuaded that it is unlikely he would have traded if the true position of 
his accounts was known to him. She recommended IG unwind all trades on the 2nd and 3rd 
March 2019 as well as honour the £400 compensation theyd previously offered in light of 
the impact this has had on him.
Mr D accepted the investigators view but IG didnt agree, so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint and for the same reasons as the investigator. 
I will explain further.
I think its important first to outline what my role as an Ombudsman is. It is to impartially 
investigate the specific complaint brought against IG to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion based on the evidence provided. I am not looking to punish a business where 
there has been any wrongdoing or to tell a business how to operate. Any concerns about the 
way a busines operates should be taken to the Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates 
the UKs financial industry. 
In their final response, IG accepted there was a problem with their profit and loss analytics 
not updating to the latest information. Ive considered what this has meant for Mr D and the 
impact this has had on him.
From the first call Mr D made to complain to IG, he has been clear. He based his risk 
assessment on the information he saw on the profit and loss analytics at that time and made 
his trading decisions accordingly. He says he has lost money as a result of this as he would 
not have traded if the true losses on his account were known.
I understand IGs position that the losses Mr D incurred were a result of the trading decisions 
he made on his execution only accounts and so the losses were a result of those decisions, 
but, I am not satisfied that this takes all matters into consideration. I dont think its 
reasonable to make the assumption that all their customers would know what Beta meant. 
Even so, this doesnt mean they should expect customers to cross check the information 
they were being given particularly when they hadnt been told to do so. In fact, I would 
suggest he had been told the opposite with the reminder emails encouraging him to use the 
tool  and no suggestion of cross checking the information or that the information may not be 
entirely reliable. 
One particular email says:-
Remember to keep checking your performance using the trade analytics tool in My 
IG.
Use it to help:
-Gain deeper insight into your winning and losing trades
-Identify and eliminate expensive mistakes
-See your total returns, including all fees and adjustments
-Monitor how much you pay in costs and charges
Plus, well soon be adding new features to make your trades even more transparent 
 one more reason to check the tool regularly.
In another email they say:-
Gain deeper insight into your winning and losing trades
Identify and eliminate expensive trading mistakes
See your true profit and loss, including all fees and adjustments
Monitor how much you pay in costs and charges
I take on board IGs point that he could have verified the information he was given on the 
profit and loss history of his account to give him an accurate figure. But as Ive explained 
above, he wasnt told he needed to do this or given any suggestion the information wasnt 
accurate. IG have promoted this as a tool that will aid them in their decision making by giving 
them insight into their trades and their profit and losses. So, I would expect them to ensure 
the accuracy of the information they are presenting or alternatively notify consumers of the 
potential issues that they may encounter so they are not solely dependent on this source of 
information. Unfortunately, IG didnt to do this despite the substantial discrepancy that 
showed in the account. Mr D relied on the information that was given to him as accurate and based his trading 
decisions on this. Under the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for him to do so, and I 
am persuaded by his account that he wouldnt have traded if he had known the true position 
of his accounts. As such, I consider his trading losses to be a result of the incorrect 
information that was given to him on the analytics tool. 
Putting things right
Mr D confirms the majority of the impact to him as a result of the profit and loss analytics 
errors was on 2nd and 3rd March and has asked for these trades to be cancelled. Under the 
circumstances, I think this is a reasonable request to focus on these two days particularly as 
he ceased trading as soon as he realised the issues and spoke to IG swiftly to resolve these. 
So, to put things right, IG should cancel all trades placed on these two days across both his 
CFD and spread betting accounts and reimburse him.
In addition, I can see the considerable impact this situation has had on Mr Ds health as well 
as the distress and inconvenience this has caused. As such, IG should honour the £400 
compensation they previously offered him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint against IG Markets Limited and they 
should pay Mr D as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman