DRN-3628165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) declined their request to 
switch their mortgage from interest only to capital repayment, and because of that, didnt 
extend their mortgage term by 12 months.  They are also unhappy with how RBS dealt with 
their complaints. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage with RBS in 2008 for ten years. The term 
for the mortgage ended in June 2018.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs S requested to extend their mortgage on interest only terms, but RBS 
declined their request. Mr and Mrs S complained and this service issued a final decision on 
this matter in September 2019.
In January 2021, Mr S spoke to RBS and asked if their mortgage could be switched from 
interest only to capital repayment in order to extend the term. An application was completed, 
and RBS told Mr S that the application would need to be reviewed by the underwriters. RBS 
declined this application due to affordability concerns. 
Mr S said that when he was told the application was declined, RBS told him there was a 12 
month moratorium being offered. He said he expected to hear something from RBS, but 
they never contacted him.
RBS contacted Mr S in April 2021 to inform him that the mortgage was in arrears. During this 
telephone call, RBS told Mr S that the notes from the account showed that Mr S refused to 
sign a Giving Your Agreement (GYA) form and had he and Mrs S have signed it, they would 
have been granted the term extension for 12 months. 
Mr S complained to RBS about this. He said that he wasnt told he needed to sign this form 
and if he was told, he would have signed it. 
RBS sent their response to Mr and Mrs S and told him that he had already complained about 
this in 2019 when the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with this as they said the complaint he made was nothing to do with 
what happened in 2019  so they raised another complaint. RBS accepted they didnt handle 
the complaint correctly, so they offered Mr and Mrs S £75 in recognition of that. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this, so they brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. In May 2022, RBS contacted our service saying they would offer Mr 
and Mrs S a further £200 to resolve their complaint. Mr and Mrs S declined this offer.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and thought that what RBS had offered to put 
things right was fair and reasonable. He acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S wanted the 12 
month extension granted because they didnt ever refuse to sign the GYA form. The 
investigator acknowledged this but said that had Mr and Mrs S have signed the form at the 
time, the 12 months extension would have now ended. So he didnt ask RBS to do anything 
further. Mr and Mrs S told the investigator that they wanted to sign the form and would like 
the 12 month extension to start from now. 
Mr and Mrs S also told the investigator that they wanted him to investigate how RBS had 
reported the mortgage to the credit reporting agencies because RBS had cancelled their 
direct debit. The investigator explained that this part of the complaint would need to be 
looked at by RBS first and then we could investigate if after if they still didnt agree.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think that RBS had acted fairly regarding the 12 month extension and 
didnt accept their offer. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that I wont be looking into the matter regarding what RBS have recorded 
with the credit reference agencies as this hasnt been raised with RBS. If Mr and Mrs S 
remain unhappy after RBS have dealt with this aspect, they can bring that complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Switching the mortgage to capital repayment
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage with RBS in 2008. The mortgage was taken 
out for £268,999 which included fees paid. This mortgage was taken out for ten years. The 
mortgage term ended in 2018.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that RBS declined their request to switch their mortgage to 
capital repayment and extend the term. 
Mr S had a discussion with RBS in January 2021 to switch their mortgage to capital 
repayment and extend the term of the mortgage. Ive listened to both telephone calls that Mr 
S had with the adviser at RBS and its clear that Mr S completed a full mortgage application. 
The adviser took all the relevant details from Mr S and did confirm at the end of the 
telephone call that the application would be referred to RBS underwriters and they would be 
in contact with Mr and Mrs S once the application had been reviewed. 
I can see from the contact notes that RBS have provided us, that they had concerns about 
Mr and Mrs S switching their mortgage to repayment based on affordability due to Mr S 
income. They were concerned that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt be able to afford switching their 
mortgage to repayment, so it was declined.
Its not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell a lender how to lend, but we do have to 
consider whether they have made any decisions fairly and reasonably. Based on the 
information and contact notes provided by RBS and the information about their lending 
criteria, Im satisfied that they assessed Mr and Mrs S application fairly at the time.
Giving your agreement form (GYA)
Having listened to the telephone call that Mr S had with our investigator, the crux of the 
matter here is the issues surrounding the GYA form. 
When Mr and Mrs S mortgage application was declined, Mr and Mrs S said they were told 
they would be able to get a 12 month extension on their mortgage which would give them 
time to think about their situation and put things in place to repay the outstanding balance.
RBS said that they issued a GYA form to Mr and Mrs S which needed to be signed and 
returned. They said that they would have then given Mr and Mrs S a 12 month extension on 
the mortgage. 
I have seen contact notes provided by RBS that state that Mr and Mrs S refused to sign the 
GYA form.  A copy of the GYA form (which is unsigned) is dated 6 January 2021. Mr and 
Mrs S said that if RBS had indeed sent them this form, they would have signed it. They said 
they would then have got the 12 month extension on the mortgage that was discussed. I havent seen any evidence of Mr and Mrs S refusing to sign this form. Ive listened to the 
telephone call that Mr S had with the adviser at RBS when he completed the initial 
application to switch the mortgage to repayment. The adviser mentions what forms were 
going to be sent out and what Mr and Mrs S needed to do. The adviser did say a GYA form 
was going to be sent out and there was no objection from Mr S at all. So I cant say that 
there is any evidence of Mr and Mrs S saying they wouldnt sign this form. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that they want to sign this form and would like the 12 month 
extension applied from now. While I understand the point that Mr and Mrs S are making, I 
have to consider what has happened and how we would put things right for Mr and Mrs S  
putting them in the position they would have been had they of signed the form when they 
should have done. 
The discussions around the GYA form happened in January 2021. Mr and Mrs S said they 
were told that they could have more time to consider their options if this form was signed.
Had Mr and Mrs S signed this form in January 2021  which is what should have happened 
 they would have been given a 12 month extension. This extension would have ended in 
January 2022. So Mr and Mrs S have unofficially been given this time because RBS havent 
taken any further action. Essentially, they are in the same position they would have been in if 
the form had been completed. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S have said they want an official extension, but like I have 
said, I have to consider what would have happened if they signed the form when they should 
have done. Its therefore not reasonable or fair to ask RBS to extend the term by 12 months 
now if a form is completed. That would extend the term of the mortgage to September or 
October 2023 which isnt what was meant to happen. So Im not going to ask RBS to do 
anything different in this regard because either way, Mr and Mrs S have got the extension 
whether it was an official one or not. 
RBS referring to Mr and Mrs S previous complaint from 2019
RBS have accepted that they dealt with Mr and Mrs S initial complaint incorrectly and that 
what Mr and Mrs S complained about  wasnt anything to do with their complaint which was 
already considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2019.
Mr and Mrs S feel that RBS have breached Data Protection in doing so, because they have 
brought up a historical complaint which wasnt relevant.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) deal specifically with complaints about Data 
Protection so if Mr and Mrs S feel they want to take this further, then they would need to 
raise a complaint with them. 
However, what I would point out though, is that businesses usually keep data relating to their 
customers for six years. They hold this information and can review it when and if they need 
to. So while I accept that Mr and Mrs S feel RBS shouldnt have referred back to their initial 
complaint, this isnt unusual. 
RBS have apologised for the trouble and upset that this caused Mr and Mrs S and offered 
them £75 in recognition of this. RBS then offered a further £200 to Mr and Mrs S to try and 
resolve the complaint. 
From what I can see, this error didnt cause Mr and Mrs S any financial loss, but it did cause 
them some trouble and upset and I can see why they found it frustrating. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, but I think what RBS 
have offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I therefore wont 
be asking them to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the total amount of compensation the 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc have offered to pay Mr and Mrs S in connection with this matter, 
is fair and reasonable. They should pay them this money if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman