DRN-3044849
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) 
upgraded their online banking service which meant it was no longer accessible to them. Mr 
F, who is a director of A, brings the complaint on As behalf.  
What happened
Co-op are in the process of upgrading their business online banking service. Prior to 
upgrading the service, it wrote to all its business customers, including A, asking them to 
make contact if they used accessibility software. 
Co-op were aware the initial upgraded version (V11.2.8) may not be compatible with 
accessibility software. So they needed to know which customers were using accessibility 
software to ensure a continued service on the original platform and ongoing support where 
needed until the full upgrade was in place. They provided an email link for customers to use 
to let them know if they used accessibility software.
At the time, A werent using the software so didnt respond to that email. As account was 
then upgraded to version (V11.2.8) of business online banking in May 2020.
In June 2020 Mr F on behalf of A contacted Co-op via the email link previously supplied to 
see if the online banking system would work with Dragon naturally speaking software. As A 
had been migrated to the interim upgraded version, Co-op advised that it wasnt compatible 
with screen readers and wouldnt be until the final upgrade (V11.5) was released.
Mr F explained that Dragon wasnt a screen reader and that he hadnt installed it as yet and 
wouldnt until he knew if business internet banking would work with it. The adviser explained 
that Co-op hadnt tested it with Dragon but he thought it either wouldnt work or would be 
more awkward to use. Mr F explained Dragon can be hard to switch off once installed, the 
adviser said if it couldnt be switched off, he may not be able to use business online banking. 
Mr F complained about this and that the email link sent to A was no longer monitored. Co-op 
looked into it and explained the email link was only in place for customers to advise if they 
used accessibility software and confirmed it was monitored daily. 
They also said that the upgrade (V11.2.8) is a stepping stone to a full upgrade (V11.5) which 
is due be in place mid-2021. They contacted customers to find out if they were using 
accessibility software and made alternative arrangements for customers where needed. A 
had not made them aware, so the account was upgraded. 
However, they were going to work with A to provide support until the new version was 
released. In their response to As complaint Co-op hadnt commented on As concern about 
Dragon being compatible. They only said that they were looking into it and would get back in 
touch once they had more information about what they could do for A. 
A contacted Co-op in September 2020 as they hadnt received any update. Co-op explained 
there wasnt any further information to share. A asked when the APP would be available as 
this could solve the issue. Co-op advised they couldnt provide dates for when the APP or 
further upgrades would be available. But theyd be in touch with A once they had more 
information.
There wasnt any further contact made until February 2021 at which point A had installed 
Dragon and was using it with limited function.
Mr F referred As concerns to our service. Our investigator didnt think Co-op had done 
anything wrong as theyd considered the needs of their customers and made alternative 
arrangements for customers who made them aware that they used accessibility software. 
As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint was passed to me. And in 
August 2021, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having considered everything, Im 
intending to uphold the complaint in part.
When Co-op understood the initial upgrade of business online banking may not be 
compatible with accessibility software, they got in touch with their customers to understand 
who might be affected by the upcoming changes. This was to ensure they could continue to 
provide an accessible service.
Co-op have explained, for those customers who made them aware of the use of accessibility 
software they put arrangements in place to ensure they could still access relevant features of 
online business banking, such as keeping them on the original platform.
Whilst I understand A wasnt using the software at the time, when Co-op got no response in 
relation to this, it wasnt unreasonable for them to assume A werent using accessibility 
software and was ok to have the account upgraded.
A says the message didnt make it clear why Co-op needed to know if accessibility software 
was being used. However, Co-ops message said they needed this information to ensure 
minimal disruption when upgrading accounts. So, I think it was clear that without this 
information, the upgrade may not be a smooth transition.
The message also said, if we dont hear from you well assume you dont use accessibility 
software. I know that A intended to use accessibility software with business online banking 
at some point, but Co-op werent aware of this.
As Co-op werent aware of the need at the time, I cant say they were wrong to have 
upgraded As account when they did.
Concerns about Dragon being compatible with interim and upgraded version of business 
online banking.
When A enquired if Dragon naturally speaking software was compatible, Co-op explained 
the upgraded version A had at the time wasnt compatible with screen readers. They 
explored options to support A such as moving them back to the old platform, but this wasnt 
possible. A confirmed that Dragon isnt a screen reader but from the information Ive seen, 
Co-op were unable to confirm if Dragon was compatible.A has also said that Co-op were unable to confirm if their system was compatible with 
Dragon. I can understand why A expected them to know this information especially as they 
were going through an upgrade process. I wouldnt necessarily expect staff to know all 
accessibility products and their compatibility first hand, but I think this is something Co-op 
could have checked for A and should have done given the ongoing concerns that A had 
raised.
I cant see that A contacted Co-op after the telephone call it made in September 2020 to 
indicate further issues with accessibility to the business online banking. And Im aware that A 
went ahead and tested Dragon and continued to use it from January 2021.
However, A have explained they were waiting to hear back from Co-op regarding the 
introduction of the APP or details around Dragons compatibility. And between May 2020, 
when the platform was upgraded and January 2021, A hadnt purchased and installed 
Dragon through concern it would affect the use of online banking and therefore the operation 
of the business.
A further explained that Co-op delayed them installing Dragon as they said it wouldnt work 
with business online banking when it turned out not to be the case, instead there was limited 
functionality. A also said this had a knock-on effect as not being able to use Dragon on the 
laptop meant A had to employ their assistant to support for more hours than usual until they 
decided to install Dragon in January 2021 after not hearing from Co-op.
Co-op didnt get back in touch with A until February 2021  this was after our services 
involvement in the case. At which point A confirmed it was able to use Dragon with business 
online banking, albeit with limited functionality. Co-op provided some assistance so A could 
fully access what it needed at this time.
Overall, Im satisfied Co-op did notify customers of the upgrade and the need to let them 
know if accessibility software was being used. And when A got in touch, I think they were 
keen to support A where needed. However, I think Co-op could have done more to help A in 
relation to the specific questions it had asked about compatibility and its concerns in relation 
to the impact on the business.
I understand that Co-op were unable to provide specific dates for the launch of the APP and 
the further upgrades to business online banking when A last spoke to them in September 
2020. However, I think they could have kept A updated about this and provided more clarity 
around Dragons compatibility with business online banking.
A went on to install Dragon, but I can understand why they didnt do this sooner. They 
werent aware of the impact installing it could have on business online banking. And they 
needed to maintain access to it to keep the business operating.
A provided a detailed account of a conversation with an adviser from Co-op that took place 
in July 2021 that supports this. Co-op havent been able to retrieve any details of this call but 
given the level of detail Im persuaded by As version of events.
A says he was told during this call that Dragon hadnt been tested and it either wouldnt work 
or would be more awkward to use and if Dragon couldnt be switched off A may not be able 
to use internet banking. So, whilst A could have mitigated the situation by installing Dragon 
sooner, I can understand why they didnt.
In their final response letter dated 10 August 2020 Co-op said their experts were currently working through exactly what they could do for A and the impact that will have now and 
when the future updates are made. They said they would be back in touch with A as soon as 
they had more information. And theyve told our service that they were considering what they 
could do to support A and would provide support where needed.
However, Co-op left A around five months before making contact in February 2021 and up 
until that point they hadnt supported A by answering their concerns. So, whilst Co-op said 
they were willing to work with A where needed I think they couldve done more, even to let A 
know that nothing had changed. If they had, A may have made a decision earlier on to install 
Dragon or could have made more informed choices about what to do.
After As call to Co-op in September 2020, A didnt receive any form of contact or update 
until after our service prompted it in February 2021. A has said they didnt make contact with 
Co-op again as they were informed Co-op would be in touch and they thought they just had 
to wait to hear from them. And I think Co-op did give the impression theyd be back in touch.
A was faced with a difficult decision. Based on what theyd been told, installing Dragon could 
have caused problems for them using online banking. And there was a period of time that Mr 
F as the director was impeded in running the business because he hadnt installed Dragon 
due to what he had been told by Co-op. This inconvenienced the business because Mr F 
wasnt able to carry out work until additional support was received from the assistant. And I 
can see A has had to think about how they were going to cope with the situation and 
reorganise the way it works to cope with not being able to use the software.
Considering the inconvenience this has caused, Im minded to award A £150 in 
compensation.
Mr F says A had to pay their assistant for extra hours whilst Mr F wasnt using Dragon. But I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Co-op to cover those costs. Whilst I can understand why A 
decided to pay the assistant for extra hours, A made a choice to do so knowing the financial 
impact on it and A did have the option of going back to Co-op to press them further for an 
answer about the software compatibility before employing an assistant for further hours.
Wider accessibility concerns
I understand A has concerns about accessibility for others, but I have to consider the issues 
at hand for As individual complaint. Whilst I appreciate As concern around upgrading an 
account that isnt compatible for all, Co-op have confirmed the overall upgrade will be 
compatible.
Businesses have a duty to make reasonable adjustments to remove barriers to using their 
services and to treat their customers fairly. Sometimes this could involve tailoring its service 
to a consumers needs. And in the meantime, they have said they will support A where 
needed if accessibility to business online banking features are an issue and Im satisfied that 
A has that support available should it be required moving forward.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons explained above, subject to any further information I receive from either A or 
The Co-operative Bank Plc, my provisional decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc 
should pay A £150 to compensate for the inconvenience it caused.Responses to my provisional decision
Both A had Co-op had no further evidence for my consideration and have accepted my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc, should pay A £150 to compensate for 
the inconvenience it caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman