DRN-3046410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs P booked a package holiday abroad through a travel agent. 
They were due to fly to a country Ill call J and take part in a tour. The trip was due to begin 
on 23 March 2020 and Mr and Mrs P were due to return to the UK on 6 April 2020. They 
took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker, which provided them with cover 
between 6 January and 12 December 2020.
However, in late February 2020, Mr and Mrs P began to have concerns about Covid-19 and 
the potential risk it posed to them if they travelled to J. So they got in touch with Great Lakes 
to check whether theyd be covered if they travelled and became unwell, or if there were to 
be a lockdown while they were away. Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs P it would need to 
consider a claim when and if the situation happened. 
As Mr and Mrs P remained concerned, on 3 March 2020, they decided to transfer their tour 
booking through their travel agent. However, as the travel agent said the pre-booked flights 
couldnt be refunded, Mr and Mrs P incurred cancellation costs of around £2700. They made 
a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs of their flights.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And 
on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. It said that at the time Mr and Mrs P 
amended their trip, thered been no FCDO advice against travelling to J. It felt that theyd 
chosen to rebook their trip because they didnt want to travel  which was specifically 
excluded by the policy terms. It acknowledged that once the FCDO had changed, Mr and 
Mrs Ps holiday couldnt have gone ahead. But it said that as the holiday had been booked 
as a package, the travel agent wouldve been liable to refund Mr and Mrs Ps full costs in line 
with the Package Holiday and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) as the 
holiday contract couldnt have been fulfilled. And it noted that the travel agent was offering 
credit notes for the full value of bookings between 17 March and 31 August 2020. This 
meant that if Mr and Mrs P hadnt amended their booking, the travel agent wouldve likely 
issued them with a full refund credit note. So it didnt think that Mr and Mrs P had mitigated 
either their own or its losses and it didnt agree to pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He noted that at the 
time Mr and Mrs P had decided to transfer their booking, thered been no FCDO against 
travel to J in place. So he felt itd been fair for Great Lakes to conclude that the policy 
exclusion for disinclination to travel should apply. He also felt that had Mr and Mrs P not 
amended their booking, following the FCDO advice change on 17 March 2020, the travel 
agent wouldve been liable to refund the value of Mr and Mrs Ps trip booking under the PTR. 
So he didnt think Mr and Mrs P had mitigated their losses. He felt it was fair for Great Lakes 
to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said they cancelled their trip because Great Lakes werent 
prepared to cover them for the effects of a possible lockdown if theyd travelled. If it had 
done so, theyd have travelled as planned. They also said that given their age, they didnt 
think it was sensible to travel without adequate insurance cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I think it was fair for Great Lakes 
to turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether Great 
Lakes treated them fairly. 
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Great Lakes. The cancellation section of the policy provides the 
following cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other 
pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. You are also covered 
for any additional travel expenses incurred if you are forced to cancel any part of your trip 
prior to its commencement. This must be as a direct and necessary result of any cause 
outside of your control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the time of 
booking your trip, whichever is the later. (Emphasis added).
The cancellation section of the policy also includes a specific list of things that Great Lakes 
doesnt cover. One of these is:
You cancelling or cutting short your trip because of: your disinclination to travel.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Great Lakes will only cover the cancellation costs 
which a policyholder cant get back from elsewhere. And that it doesnt cover cancellation 
claims which are down to a policyholder not wanting to travel.
In this case, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P first called Great Lakes because they had 
concerns about the developing Covid-19 situation and because they wanted to check theyd 
be covered. I can also understand that they were disappointed when Great Lakes didnt give 
them a clear answer and instead told them that it would need to consider a claim if and when 
the situation arose. I dont think this was an unreasonable position for Great Lakes to take 
though. Thats because Great Lakes cant confirm whether or not it will cover a claim without 
claims evidence and without assessing the circumstances and evidence in line with the 
contract terms and conditions. So I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly here.I understand that Mr and Mrs P were worried about travelling without such a guarantee that 
theyd be covered if they were locked-down abroad. But I need to bear in mind that at the 
time of Mr and Mrs Ps call to Great Lakes, the FCDO hadnt advised against all but 
essential travel to J. The FCDO advice didnt change for almost a further three weeks. 
And at the time Mr and Mrs P amended their booking and incurred the associated flight 
cancellation costs, the FCDO still hadnt issued any advice against travel to J. So it seems 
Mr and Mrs Ps decision to postpone their booking was based on their concerns as to the 
cover and the potential risks of Covid-19 on their own health. I dont think it was unfair then 
for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs P were disinclined to take their booked trip.
Its clear that the FCDO did go on to change its advice to all but essential travel to all 
destinations on 17 March 2020. Great Lakes accepts that once the FCDO advice changed, 
Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have been able to travel and so it may have been able to consider a 
claim.
As Ive set out above, I think the policy terms make it clear that Great Lakes will only pay 
cancellation claims where a policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. It seems 
to me that Mr and Mrs Ps holiday was booked as a package holiday through their travel 
agent. Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that 
includes two or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. 
The travel provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the 
booking invoice the travel agent provided Mr and Mrs P. I can see that they booked their 
flights, transfers and their tour through the travel agent. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes 
to conclude that this trip was booked as a package.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide 
protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that the travel 
provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be provided. I 
accept that Mr and Mrs P amended their holiday before the FCDO guidance changed. 
However, after 17 March 2020, the FCDO did advise against all but essential travel to all 
countries. And I think this means that Mr and Mrs Ps package holiday would likely have had 
to have been cancelled by the relevant travel providers and the booking contract couldnt 
have been fulfilled. 
If this had been the case, I think its most likely that the travel agent wouldve been liable 
under the PTR to refund all of the money Mr and Mrs P had paid for their trip. This means 
their losses wouldve been legally recoverable from the travel agent. And indeed, Ive seen 
evidence that between 17 March and 31 August 2020, the travel agent was offering full 
refunds through credit notes. So there wouldve been no costs to claim on their travel 
insurance policy. As Mr and Mrs P chose to postpone their trip on 3 March 2020 though, 
incurring cancellation charges, I think they prejudiced Great Lakes position and incurred 
costs they wouldnt have otherwise done. 
I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs P chose to postpone their trip when they did. And I 
sympathise with their position. But on the facts of this case, I think that by choosing to 
amend the holiday on 3 March 2020, Mr and Mrs P put Great Lakes in a worse position than 
it would otherwise have been than if theyd waited to see if the FCDO advice changed and 
had therefore been entitled to a refund under the PTR. And on this basis, I think it was fair 
for Great Lakes to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman