DRN-1627346
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a medical assistance and 
expenses claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account. The travel insurance is 
underwritten by Aviva.
Mrs M was on holiday abroad, when unfortunately she had a fall and injured herself. She 
was also having some difficulty breathing and was concerned shed broken her ribs. She 
visited a local hospital, which explained Mrs M would need to pay €400 upfront, as she didnt 
have an EHIC card and she was a foreign national.
Concerned about the information shed been given, Mrs M called Avivas medical emergency 
assistance team to ask for help. The call handler she spoke to texted Mrs M the details of an 
alternative facility in the same city, which Mrs M got a taxi to. When she arrived though, she 
found that the hospital didnt have an accident and emergency department and couldnt treat 
her.
So Mrs M called the assistance team back. It suggested she get a taxi back to the hospital 
Mrs M had visited initially. It tried to send the hospital an email to let it know Mrs M would be 
visiting, but the email bounced back. Mrs M asked the assistance team if her treatment 
would be covered by her policy. She was told that Aviva would need to see a medical report 
for any costs over €400; but it would agree to cover initial consultation costs up to this 
amount.
Mrs M chose not to go back to the hospital the assistance team had suggested. Instead, she 
got private treatment. She was unhappy with the service shed had from the assistance team 
 that shed been sent to the wrong hospital; that it wouldnt agree to cover any medical 
expenses without evidence; that it hadnt contacted the original hospital and that the hospital 
only spoke the local language. Shed felt abandoned by Aviva. So Mrs M complained.
Aviva initially told Mrs M that itd given her the right information about which hospital to go to; 
but that the taxi driver mustve dropped her at the wrong part of it. It said its team had acted 
in good faith and tried to act in Mrs Ms best interests. But Aviva reviewed the claim and 
complaint again. It agreed to settle the private medical expenses Mrs M had incurred. It also 
offered to waive her policy excess of £50 and pay her an additional £100 compensation for 
the way her claim had been handled.
Mrs M remained unhappy with Avivas handling of her claim and she asked us to look into 
her complaint.
Our investigator thought Aviva had handled Mrs Ms claim fairly. He acknowledged that 
Aviva had sent Mrs M to the wrong hospital. But he didnt think the policy terms obliged the 
assistance team to find a hospital for Mrs M. He noted that the assistance team had offered 
to pay Mrs Ms consultation fee without needing a medical report, which he felt was outside 
of its obligations. And he saw email evidence that showed it had tried to get in touch with the 
hospital. He felt the compensation Aviva had offered was fair.
Mrs M disagreed. She said it wasnt her fault shed been sent to the wrong part of the 
hospital. She said Aviva had never told her it would pay the upfront consultation fee. She felt 
Aviva shouldnt have simply emailed the hospital; it shouldve called up too.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do think there were some failings in the way Aviva handled Mrs Ms claim. 
But I think it responded to her complaint fairly and I think its done enough to put things right. 
Ill explain why.
First, Id like to say that I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs Ms situation. Shed 
suffered a fall and was feeling breathless. Shes told us she was scared she might suffer a 
punctured lung because she suspected she might have fractured her rib. It seems to me Mrs 
M did need emergency medical assistance, so its understandable that she sought 
emergency treatment.
I also think Mrs M tried to follow the policy terms. When she visited the first hospital and was 
told shed have to pay an upfront charge, she called up the medical assistance team. This is 
exactly what the policy required her to do  call before making any arrangements if an injury 
meant she needed to seek medical advice. I can see from Avivas records that the call 
handler explained to Mrs M that the upfront payment would usually be claimed back under 
the EHIC reciprocal arrangement scheme. This is fairly common when travel insurance 
claims are made in EU countries which are party to reciprocal health agreements. So the 
information the call handler gave Mrs M was right.
But as Mrs M didnt have an EHIC card, the call handler checked Avivas list of other local 
facilities. And the call handler texted Mrs M the address of a hospital it said should be able to 
treat her. 
Unfortunately, the hospital details Mrs M was given werent for an A and E department. The 
main hospital was spread across different sites in the city and the site Mrs M was directed to 
didnt have the facilities she needed. I can appreciate how upsetting this mustve been for 
Mrs M  at a time when she was already in pain; at night and when she was worried about 
the severity of her injuries. I can understand why shed have likely felt let-down  especially 
when she was in a place where she didnt speak the language and so communication was 
difficult. I do feel Aviva let Mrs M down at this point in time.
When Mrs M called back though, I think Aviva took reasonable steps to try and help her. I 
appreciate why Mrs M might not have wanted to go back to the first hospital, as she was 
worried about an upfront payment for treatment and as she felt theyd been rude to her.
But the medical assistance team knew this hospital could offer Mrs M the emergency 
treatment she needed. And it agreed to pay for her initial consultation (up to €400, although 
it would need a medical report for costs over this amount). I can also see that the medical 
assistance team did try to email the hospital; but the email bounced back. It mightve been 
helpful if Aviva had tried to call the hospital at this point. But as Mrs M chose not to get 
treatment there, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.I think offering to cover Mrs Ms initial consultation, in the absence of supporting medical 
evidence, was an appropriate and fair response from Aviva. But Im satisfied it was fair for 
Aviva to tell Mrs M itd need a medical report before itd agree to pay any costs above €400.
I appreciate Mrs M feels that Aviva should simply agree cover or decline it. But most, if not 
all insurers, will generally require medical reports or evidence before theyll agree to pay 
claims. Thats to ensure claims are valid. I think Aviva was reasonably entitled to be satisfied 
about the reason for Mrs Ms claim; whether the costs were reasonable and to check there 
werent any reasons why the claim shouldnt be paid.  Id add that it isnt my role to tell 
insurers what their claims process should be  thats down to the industry regulator and the 
insurance industry itself.
Mrs M chose not to get treatment from this hospital and told Aviva that she was planning to 
seek treatment in her home country and she didnt need any more assistance from it. So I 
dont think Aviva needed to take any further action at this point especially as Mrs M told it 
her treatment would be free in her home country. But Mrs M chose to seek private medical 
treatment, as she was in too much pain to travel home. 
Im pleased to see Aviva agreed to cover these costs and the taxi cost Mrs M incurred. That 
was a fair response and tied-in with its agreement to meet Mrs Ms initial consultation costs. I 
also think waiving the policy excess was appropriate in these circumstances. Aviva did give 
Mrs M misinformation and it led to her suffering more inconvenience at an already stressful 
time for her.
And I also feel that given the additional inconvenience and distress Aviva caused Mrs M, it 
was right it offered her compensation. After all, she had to travel between hospitals, while in 
pain, in the evening and I think was entitled to rely on what the assistance team was telling 
her. Its also unfortunate Aviva suggested in its final response that it had sent Mrs M to the 
right hospital and the taxi driver had dropped her off at the wrong place, when its notes 
clearly suggested otherwise. This mustve been frustrating.
Overall though, Im satisfied the compensation Avivas offered, together with the excess 
waiver is fair compensation for Mrs Ms distress and inconvenience. I also think Aviva did try 
to help Mrs M and its notes show she was told her initial consultation costs would be 
covered. So Im not telling Aviva to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva has offered Mrs M fair 
compensation. 
I make no further award against Aviva.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman