DRN-4196999
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt with 
a claim under a home insurance policy.
Mr M has a representative. However, for ease, I will normally refer to Mr M.
What happened
Mr M had an escape of water in his home. So, he contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with the settlement offered or that it would be in staged payments. When 
Lloyds replied to the complaint, it explained the settlement options it had offered, that it had 
offered to replace bathroom tiles and kitchen splashbacks as a gesture of goodwill and how 
it normally settled claims. It also didnt accept it was harassing Mr M by copying him into 
emails to his loss assessor.
When Mr M complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said Lloyds had 
offered a settlement in line with the policy terms and that Lloyds had explained why it wanted 
to make staged payments. She also didnt see evidence that Lloyds had deliberately delayed 
the claim or harassed Mr M.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M didnt think the offer to settle the claim was fair. Lloyds offered a cash settlement based 
on the cost to itself to carry out the repairs. I note that Lloyds also offered to carry out the 
work, including when Mr M said the cash settlement wasnt enough for the work. It also said 
Mr M could provide quotes for the work so it could consider these.
Lloyds also said it would make staged payments as the claim progresses. This was because 
Lloyds wasnt satisfied that the level of damage was clear and that the full strip out needed 
to be completed first to assess this. Mr M also wanted all the tiles to be replaced in his 
kitchen and bathroom, including ones that werent damaged. Mr M didnt have matching sets 
cover under the policy. Lloyds initially declined to pay for this, but later agreed to do so as a 
gesture of goodwill to try and progress the claim. In my view, the way Lloyds proposed to 
settle the claim for the damage was reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy and 
included going beyond the policy terms to try and reach an agreement.
Mr M also complained that Lloyds had refused to pay for alternative accommodation, which 
he said meant he couldnt arrange the work. Looking at what happened, I saw emails to Mr 
M that offered to cover the cost of accommodation for 28 days. This included providing an 
example of the type of accommodation that had been found in the local area, but explaining 
it didnt have to be that specific property. Lloyds also provided a total amount that it would 
pay for that period to give Mr M some flexibility to find a suitable property. Im aware Mr M 
seemed to want accommodation for 6 to 12 months, but I didnt see evidence that showed 
the period Lloyds identified for the works to take place was unfair or wasnt based on a 
realistic assessment of the time it would take to do the work. So, in my view, Lloyds made a 
reasonable offer to enable Mr M to find alternative accommodation while the work took 
place.
Mr M was also concerned that Lloyds copied him into emails to his loss assessor, despite 
him asking it not to do so. He told Lloyds he had no reason to consider replying to the 
emails. Lloyds explained to Mr M that he was its customer, regardless of any agreement he 
had separately with the loss assessor. It also explained that Mr M didnt need to reply to 
them. When Mr Ms loss assessor raised the complaint about the claim with Lloyds, he 
described this as harassment. Having looked at the emails, I havent seen evidence that 
persuades me it was unreasonable for Lloyds to copy Mr M into the emails. Almost all of 
them were addressed to Mr Ms loss assessor, with Mr M copied in, and Mr M had been told 
he didnt need to respond to them. 
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to 
do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman