DRN-1933396
The complaint
Ms H complains about an account with Next Retail Limited, which was opened in her name 
and then used to place an order for some footwear.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms H was on holiday abroad, when she received an email from Next. 
The email confirmed that an account had been opened in Ms Hs name, which allowed the 
account holder to order items from Next, but pay for them using the accounts credit limit.
On the same day, Ms H received a second email from Next, which confirmed an order for 
some footwear, to be charged to the account. Ms H says that she didnt open a credit 
account with Next and she didnt place the order for the footwear. So, Ms H sent emails to 
Next to tell them about her concerns and that her personal details may have been used by a 
fraudster.
Nexts say they cancelled the footwear order on the same day that it was placed and that the 
credit account in Ms Hs name was closed on the following day. Ms H tried to speak to Next 
whilst still on holiday, following her emails. She says was unable to talk about the account, 
as she didnt have all the necessary details to hand. Next say they didnt speak to Ms H 
about the account, because she told them she preferred not to give any further personal 
details out. 
About ten days after the emails Ms H received from Next, she returned from holiday. She 
says it was then that she found out the account had been closed and the footwear order 
cancelled. Ms H wrote to Next to complain and said that her holiday had been ruined 
because of the worry over the account that had been opened in her name. Ms H also said 
that she felt it necessary to contact a fraud prevention organisation, and apply a protective 
registration to her credit file, at a cost of £25.
In their response to Ms Hs complaint, Next said that the account was closed, and the order 
was cancelled as soon as they had discovered what had happened. Next also said that 
Ms Hs details were on their customer database, from when she had previously placed an 
order. It was these details the fraudster used to open a credit account. Next agreed to pay 
Ms H £25 for the protective registration fee, and gave her a £30 gift card as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Ms H didnt accept Nexts response and brought the matter to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Ms Hs complaint and persuaded Next to offer to pay the £30 to Ms H directly, 
instead of giving her store credit. The investigator concluded that it was a fraudster, rather 
than Next who opened a credit account in Ms Hs name. She also found that Next acted 
quickly to stop the fraud, close the account and to make sure Ms Hs credit file showed the 
correct information. In addition, the investigator said that Next had handled the matter fairly 
by paying the protective registration cost and offering to pay Ms H £30 directly, rather than in 
a gift card.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators findings. She said that Next caused a delay in telling 
her the account had been closed and this ruined the rest of her holiday. Ms H questioned 
how the fraudster was able to open the account and that Next could have done more to help 
her at the time. She felt that it was the contact she made with Next, which prompted the 
action, rather than Next recognising what the fraudster had done. Ms H told the investigator 
that Next had more questions to answer and that the compensation offered, needed to 
reflect the loss of enjoyment from her holiday.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions. She said Nexts records show that they dealt 
with the matter promptly and that they were unable to speak to Ms H about the account 
closure, as Ms H didnt want to give out her personal details, until she returned from her 
holiday. Ms H didnt accept this and said the information she gave to Next on her return from 
holiday, was the same information she was asked for whilst abroad. She also said Next had 
deliberately left some information off their records.
Ms Hs case has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms H has been the victim of a fraudulent application in her name. I know 
this cant have been easy for her and I acknowledge she was worried when it happened. 
But, Im not upholding her complaint as I think Next has acted fairly and reasonably 
throughout. I dont believe theres anything more they could have done.
When someone has been the victim of a fraudulent credit application, it follows that they 
would like to know how it happened. During her complaint to us, Ms H raised various 
suspicions about how the fraudster was able to use the details, held about her with Next. 
However, our role is to look to see if Next have treated Ms H fairly, when they discovered 
what had happened, rather than how the fraudster was able to use her details.
The opening and closing of the credit account
Next have sent us their internal notes which show when the credit account was opened. 
These notes suggest that the fraudster opened the account on the same day that Ms H 
received the welcome email from Next. The notes also show that the credit account was 
converted from the details Ms H had used previously, to order items from Next.
Having considered all the evidence, I think it was the fraudster who obtained Ms Hs details 
and used them to open a credit account. I dont think Next opened the account in error, 
some months prior to the footwear order being placed.
The emails Ms H has sent to us show that the first message she received from Next in early 
November 2020, was the confirmation that a credit account had been opened. I can see 
from Ms Hs reply to this email, that she told Next the account wasnt opened by her. 
Nexts records show that although the credit account was opened, the order for the footwear 
was cancelled on the same day. The records also show that the credit account was closed 
on the following day. Next have said that this was because the delivery address was 
changed during the order, to a different address. 
I can see why Ms H says that it was her email, which prompted Next to take action over the 
account. Ms H told Next she hadnt placed the order within two hours of being told about it. But, Nexts records show that the account was opened just after 11pm, GMT, and the order 
cancelled on the same day. This means the footwear order was cancelled within an hour of it 
being placed. I do acknowledge though, that Ms Hs emails would have helped Next confirm 
their own suspicions about the account.
Having considered all the information, on balance, I think it was Next who spotted the 
fraudulent activity on the credit account. I think Next acted independently of Ms Hs email, to 
take action to prevent further loss to Ms H. So, I think Next have treated Ms H fairly here, by 
cancelling the order and closing the credit account, promptly after it had been opened.
When Ms H found out the credit account had been closed
Ms H says that she tried to speak with Next about the credit account whilst she was on 
holiday. She says that Next told her they couldnt resolve the matter until she returned home. 
Next have told us that they could not confirm anything to Ms H, until she had answered the 
security questions they used to verify Ms H when she called.
Next no longer have a copy of the call recordings from when Ms H tried to get some 
information about the credit account, when she was on holiday. But, I think its likely Next 
would have needed her to answer various security questions, to talk about the account. 
Especially, as they already had a suspicion of fraudulent activity happening with the footwear 
order. 
I can see why Ms H may have been unable to provide the answers to the questions she was 
asked. Ms H has said that some of the information she was asked for, was a customer 
number. This customer number doesnt appear on any of the emails Ms H was sent whist 
she was on holiday. And she has told us she didnt have it.
Having considered everything, on balance, I think Ms H was asked for specific information 
by Next which she was unable to give to them, when she was abroad. Whilst I can 
understand that Ms H felt distressed at the thought of her personal details being used by a 
fraudster, I dont think Next treated her unfairly by not being able to talk about the account.
When Ms H returned from holiday, around ten days after the account was closed, she called 
Next again. During the telephone call, Next were able to speak about the credit account and 
explained to Ms H that the order has been cancelled and the account closed, almost as soon 
as it was opened. Ms H says that Next could have spoken to her sooner and that a large 
proportion of her holiday had been ruined, because she was very worried about what had 
happened.
Im persuaded that Ms H was worried about her personal details being used by a fraudster. 
But, I think Next had taken action to cancel the order and close the account almost as soon 
as it was opened. I also think Next were unable to talk to Ms H about the account, until she 
had contacted them and answered the specific security questions they asked. So, while I 
understand Ms H was very worried with what happened, I dont think Next should have 
compensate Ms H for any loss of the enjoyment she experienced, whilst on holiday.
Nexts records show that they made contact with the credit reference agencies they use, on 
the same day as they confirmed to Ms H that the credit account was closed. Next did this to 
remove the account from reporting on Ms Hs credit file. Although this was around nine days 
after the account had been closed, I think Next have treated Ms H fairly, by removing any 
information about the account and any connection to Ms H, after speaking to her directly.
The £25 protective registration fee refund and the £30 paymentWhen Ms H returned from holiday, she contacted a fraud prevention organisation and paid 
for a protective registration. This meant that any potential lenders, which uses that 
organisation, would be able to see that Ms Hs personal details are at risk. Those lenders will 
also be able to take additional steps to protect Ms H, if any future credit application is made.
I think this was a reasonable step for Ms H to take. I can understand why Ms H felt very 
concerned that a fraudster had used her personal details, and wanted to try and prevent it 
from happening again. I also think Next sought to try and reassure Ms H, that they had taken 
the necessary steps to put things right by closing the account and updating her credit file. 
So, by paying Ms H for the protective registration fee, I think Next took further measures to 
try and ease her concerns.
Having considered everything, I think Next have treated Ms H fairly by paying her the £25 
cost of the protective registration fee.
Ms H says that her holiday abroad was ruined because of the worry of thinking about the 
account that was opened in her name. I have concluded that Next cancelled the order and 
closed the account, before any loss could be suffered by Ms H. I have also found that I dont 
think Next treated Ms H unfairly, by not being able to tell her about their actions, until she 
returned from holiday. 
As a gesture of goodwill, Next sent Ms H a £30 gift card, for her to spend with them. I know 
that Ms H hasnt accepted the gift card and that Next has subsequently offered to send her 
the £30 directly, for her to spend as she likes. I dont think Next has to offer Ms H any more 
than they have done already. So, I leave it to Ms H to choose to either accept the gift card, 
or to contact Next with her bank account details, if shed like to receive that payment directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman