DRN-1322954
Complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr B bought a MPPI policy which started in July 2006 to protect his mortgage repayments. 
The policy covered him against any accidents or sickness. The first 6 months worth of cover 
was free.
Mr B believes Yorkshire mis-sold the policy. He says it was not made clear from the 
mortgage application form that he was given a choice to have PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr B doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr B during the meeting. But I think, 
after considering the documentation provided, it is more likely that he was advised it 
was a good idea to have the insurance to protect his mortgage repayments. Mr 
B signed for the MPPI policy on a separate mortgage payment insurance application 
form (a document separate to the mortgage application form). There is nothing to 
suggest in the sales documentation that he was not given a choice to have it. 
 
I can't be sure if Yorkshire gave advice to Mr B in the meeting to have the 
MPPI policy but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him anyway based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr B had 6 months full and 6 months half 
sick pay along with 3 months worth of savings but the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any provisions he had at the time. The policy would have paid the 
mortgage repayments in what would have been a difficult time and for longer than the 
provisions he held. So I can see Mr B would have found some benefit in having it. I 
could also not see any other reason such as a significant exclusion or term that 
would have affected him or made the policy unsuitable either.
 
Yorkshire has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI that  
Mr B took out. But i can't be sure if Mr B had received clear information about this in 
the meeting. That said, i don't think it would have affected his decision to take the policy even if Yorkshire had done this, for the reasons i have given for why the policy 
was suitable for him.
 
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out other key information that the policy didnt 
cover. But again its unlikely Mr B wouldve been affected by any of these for the 
reasons I have already given.
 
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments, but these points dont change my conclusion, that I 
dont think he was mis-sold the MPPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17th March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman