DRN-4058422
The complaint
Miss M has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has declined a claim made under 
her medical insurance policy for her young child.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary Miss Ms child, whom Ill call A, was diagnosed with a severe peanut 
allergy and treatment was recommended. Miss A understood from speaking to AXA that if 
she provided high quality clinical trial evidence that treatment would be effective the claim 
would be covered. Accordingly, she went ahead with the treatment for A and incurred a cost 
of £3500.
AXA declined the claim as it didnt consider that the claim was for eligible treatment covered 
by Miss Ms policy. It said As condition was chronic and that the recommended treatment 
was not conventional, as defined by the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss A appealed. She said 
she had been assured that the treatment would be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Miss M will be disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss Ms membership covers eligible treatment. To be eligible treatment needs to 
meet all the requirements set out in the policy. These include that treatment:
oIs of an acute condition
oIs conventional treatment
oHas been proven to be effective and safe
oIs not preventative
            AXA didnt find that the treatment Miss M claimed for was eligible.
            I dont find that was unfair. Ill explain why.  
  
The policy is designed to cover acute conditions that respond quickly to treatment 
rather than chronic ones. It defines chronic as: a disease, illness or injury that has 
one or more of the following characteristics: it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring 
through consultations, examinations, check-ups and/or tests, it needs ongoing or 
long-term control or relief of symptoms, it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be 
specially trained to cope with it, it continues indefinitely, it has no known cure,  it 
comes back or is likely to come back. At this moment in time a peanut allergy is 
considered to be a condition which needs monitoring. I dont find that AXA treated A, 
or Miss M, unfairly by concluding that As condition was chronic.
AXA also didnt feel that the recommended immunotherapy treatment met the policy 
definition of conventional treatment. To meet the criteria for conventional treatment, it 
would either need to be approved by NICE or be shown to be effective and safe for 
the treatment of the medical condition through high quality clinical trial evidence. Miss 
M has referred to a published trial, but not one conducted in the UK. In any event this 
trial didnt show that the treatment was curative and resulted in remission in only 21% 
of cases. The treatment isnt presently approved by NICE for children of As age. I 
dont find AXAs conclusion was unreasonable based on the evidence.
Miss M felt that AXA had given her the go-ahead to have the treatment during a 
telephone conversation. During that conversation she was told that if there was high 
quality peer reviewed clinical evidence that the specialist could send AXA would be 
happy to review it to see whether or not it was something it could consider. But it said 
that at that point in time the NICE guidance didnt approve the treatment. Ive listened 
to the call. I dont agree that any promises were made or that Miss W was advised 
that the treatment would be covered. 
AXA is required to deal with claims fairly and mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
For the reasons given above I dont find that AXA acted in breach of these 
regulations, or the policy terms in declining the claim. That is not to say Miss M was 
wrong to proceed with treatment for A, I can understand why she did. My decision is 
only that it is not covered by her policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman