DRN-2874638
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he took on hire purchase from Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc 
(TFS) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr S entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with TFS. Under the 
agreement TFS was to supply a car which had been first registered in September 2013 for a 
cash price of just over £10,500. It had a recorded mileage of a little over 14,300 miles. 
The car was equipped with a semi-automatic gear-box. In or about July 2019 Mr S says that 
he started experiencing problems with gears slipping. He approached several garages in an 
attempt to resolve the issue, and in November 2019 contacted the dealership. It attempted to 
repair the car but was not successful. It also identified some stored fault codes.      
Mr S referred the matter to TFS. It did not consider however that it was responsible for the 
problems Mr S was experiencing. Amongst other things, it said that the dealership had 
identified that the problem might have been caused by the clutch as it had not identified any 
problem with the gearbox. It had reprogrammed the gearbox and that appeared to have 
resolved the issue. 
TFS also noted that Mr S had not reported any problem for more than two years after he 
acquired the car. In that time, he had travelled around 25,000 miles in it. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. Whilst he 
accepted that there were problems with the car, he was not persuaded that they were 
present when it was delivered to Mr S or that TFS was responsible for them. It was quite 
possible that the problems were down to wear and tear. 
Mr S did not accept the investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss agreement with TFS was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. And those circumstances include matters such as the cars age, price and 
mileage. 
In court, it is generally for a person who alleges something to prove that it is true. One effect 
of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is however to change that in the case of consumer 
contracts where an item is shown not to be of satisfactory quality within six months of supply. 
In that case, the presumption is that defects appearing within six months were present at the 
point of supply. I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be, but I 
must have regard to any relevant law in deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
In this case, Mr S had been driving the car for more than two years before he reported any 
problems. I do not believe therefore that I can safely assume those problems were present 
at the point of delivery. And, although TFS was under a duty to provide a car that was of 
satisfactory quality, that does not mean that it had to be entirely free of faults  and certainly 
not that it would remain fault-free for the duration of the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr S obtained advice from two technicians, which he has provided and which I have 
considered very carefully. He has also provided footage from inside the car and showing the 
fault. Like the investigator, I accept that this evidence does, as Mr S says, show a fault or 
faults with the car. I am not persuaded however that it shows that any fault was present or 
developing at the point of delivery. The technicians together appear to say that it is just as 
likely that the faults are the result of wear and tear. 
For these reasons I am not persuaded that the car supplied was not of satisfactory quality.             
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman