DRN-3260912
The complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined his claim to refund the costs 
incurred in repairing his boiler under his home emergency policy.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr M contacted Inter as his central heating wasnt working although the 
boiler was still producing hot water. He says an engineer came to investigate the next day. 
The engineer checked, bled and balanced the radiators and investigated the boiler. He says 
he told him there was a blockage in the system that was causing the problem. A power flush 
was suggested, which was not something covered under his policy. 
Mr M employed a plumber to power flush the system. This didnt resolve the problem with his 
heating. His plumber then replaced the pump on the boiler, again this didnt resolve the 
problem. The plumber suggested replacing the heat exchanger, but this didnt resolve the 
problem either. Mr M says Inters engineer visited again and confirmed there was no 
problem with the boiler and left.
Mr M contacted another plumber. He diagnosed a problem with the wiring harness 
controlling the divertor valve. The engineer replaced this component and the heating started 
working. Mr M thinks the power flush wasnt necessary and the pump and heat exchanger 
didnt need to be replaced. He wants Inter to pay for the cost of the work he had carried out 
following its engineers failure to diagnose the wiring harness as the underlying issue.
Inter says its engineer found the radiators were taking some time to reach the required 
temperature. But the boiler was found to be working. It says a chemical power flush was 
suggested as the fault was likely to be a blockage in the system. Inter says Mr M contacted it 
after further work had been carried out by his plumber. It says Mr M advised the heat 
exchanger was still blocked and needed to be replaced. At this point Inter advised him to 
have his plumber reattend to unblock the heat exchanger. 
Following further contact from Mr M Inter says it arranged for its engineer to return. The 
engineer found the flow pipe from the boiler was hot and the boiler was maintaining 
temperature. Several radiators were heating up although most were cold. Inter says its 
engineer diagnosed that a block or restriction was still in place within the central heating 
system. But no cover was available under Mr Ms policy to resolve this. 
In response to the wiring harness replacement, Inter says where one part is replaced that 
improves boiler speed or performance, this can highlight issues that werent previously 
evident. It says Mr M confirmed the heat exchanger was still blocked after the power flush, 
which shows the boiler was full of sludge and scale. It offered £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M and his family experienced. But didnt agree it was 
responsible for the costs incurred. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint in part. He 
didnt think the evidence showed Inters engineer had misdiagnosed the fault initially. But did 
think the company should pay for the cost of the wiring harness, which wasnt an issue 
linked to sludge in the system. The company agreed to pay this during his investigation.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He thought it was clear the only fault was with the wiring 
harness and that the plumber reports he provided showed this. He asked that an 
ombudsman review should review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I wont be adding to the remedy 
suggested by our investigator. I understand Mr M will be disappointed with this, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair.
From the records provided Inters engineer found the boiler was operating effectively when 
he first attended. Because the boiler was working, but the radiators were taking a while to 
reach temperature he concluded a blockage was the likely cause of the problem.  
The policy terms say:
What is not insured: Descaling, power flushes, and damage caused by hard water or sludge 
resulting from corrosion.
The course of action proposed was to carry out a power flush to clear the blockage. This 
isnt covered under the policy terms and so couldnt be carried out by Inters engineer. 
Mr M says the power flush didnt work. Nor did replacing the boiler pump or heat exchanger. 
Inter says that its likely these parts will have required replacing because there was a 
problem with a build-up of sludge in the system. Because the power flush didnt restore the 
heating, it doesnt mean those parts didnt need replacing. 
Inter says:
All the signs when checking the system indicated that sludge and debris were present due 
to a blockage. The powerflush being completed by the customers own engineer wouldnt 
likely fix the matter however would mean that then parts can be replaced and the appliance 
would begin to function, therefore as a routine maintenance aspect that the customer should 
follow, the powerflush I still confidently feel was required. 
Inter says that when Mr M contacted it, after his plumber had replaced the heat exchanger, 
he said it was still blocked. It says it advised him to have the plumber return to unblock the 
heat exchanger. 
When considering this matter, I must be guided by the opinion provided by the experts 
involved. We asked Mr M to provide a report from the plumbers he employed to understand 
if this contradicted Inters view. The plumber that completed the power flush and replaced 
the pump and heat exchanger provided the following comment:
[Mr M] requested a powerflush of the entire system after receiving advice to do so from the 
boiler company sent by his insurance company. I performed the powerflush [February] which 
did not fix the problem of a lack of heat to all radiators.Given that the system had been flushed it was suggested that the boiler pump may be the 
problem and, [Mr M] paid for the part and I replaced it, this also did not solve the problem.
Finally it was suggested that the main heat exchanger may be the problem, [Mr M] sourced 
the part and I fitted. Unfortunately this also did not solve the problem of the radiators not 
heating.
The report from the plumber confirms the power flush and replacement parts didnt resolve 
the problem. Mr M in a separate email says the plumber told him there was little debris 
removed from the system, and that he was able to run water through the heat exchanger 
and there didnt appear to be a blockage. I dont dispute his recollection. But the plumber 
doesnt confirm there was no blockage in the system. Only that it didnt resolve the problem.
The record from the second visit from Inters engineer says:
Boiler is operational and producing heat. Flow pipe is hot and boiler maintaining 
temperature. Several radiators are heating up although most are cold. The system was 
balanced out by myself last week. The customer has since had the system cleaned with 
replacing the main heat exchanger and pump although the issue with circulation still 
remains. The only outcome can be a blockage or restriction with the ch circuit which is 
causing the above fault. Recommended to the customer to have an independent engineer 
attend and carry out inspection on the system as no parts replaced in the appliance are 
required.
This indicates there was some hot water getting through to some of the radiators. But a fault 
remained preventing the system working properly to heat Mr Ms home. 
The plumber who Mr M arranged to fit the wiring harness says: 
We visited the property yesterday 19-02-2021. After listening the customer's explanation 
what has been done to his boiler and what the problem which he was facing was, we opened 
the boiler and after doing our checks, we found out that the diverter valve wasn't operating at 
all. We conducted electrical checks from the mother board to the components and found out 
that one of the wiring harnesses was faulty. We ordered the correct part, replaced it and the 
heating is working again.
A fault was found with the wiring harness. This isnt in dispute. But Inter doesnt think this 
was the underlying cause of the problem. 
I have thought about the comments provided by Mr Ms plumbers and whether this 
demonstrates the power flush and replacement of the pump and heat exchanger were 
unnecessary. 
The plumbers report doesnt say the power flush wasnt necessary or that it didnt remove 
sludge from the system. Similarly, it doesnt say the heat exchanger wasnt blocked. The 
report just confirms it didnt fix the problem with the heating. I note the records provided 
show Mr M said the heat exchanger was still blocked when he called Inter after his plumber 
had carried out the work. 
In considering all this I think Inters explanation is more persuasive that its likely there was a 
blockage in the system that was causing the radiators not to heat up. And that the issue with 
the wiring harness came to light following work that was carried out.  
 
I do think its fair that Inter pays for the wiring harness repair as this is unrelated to issues 
with blockages. But I dont think Mr M has reasonably shown this was the underlying fault 
when he first contacted Inter. In summary I dont think Inter treated Mr M fairly when initially declining to pay the cost of the 
wiring harness repair. But I do think its payment for £100 to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M and his family experienced was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Inter Partner Assistance SA should:
pay Mr M £365 for the cost of the wiring harness repair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman