DRN-3796664
The complaint
Mr W complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) declined a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had a motor insurance policy with West Bay covering his car. 
In March 2022, Mr W was driving his car in poor weather when he crashed. His car was 
recovered by the manufacturer to one of their garages and the manufacturer told Mr W it 
was a write-off.
Some confusion happened around this time because West Bay had it recorded that Mr W 
was going to use his own choice of repairer, but Mr W wanted West Bay to handle the claim.
West Bay recovered the car and its engineers examined it and produced a report and 
valuation for the car, which itd deemed written-off. The valuation was lower than Mr W 
expected, so he complained. West Bay then increased its offer to £25,750, less the excess.
West Bay provided Mr W with a courtesy car, which was a small hatchback.
Mr W was asked to send his bank details and various documents to West Bay so it could 
send him the payment.
About two weeks later, Mr W chased up West Bay because he still hadnt had the money. 
West Bay then declined his claim. It said the rear tyres on his car were below the minimum 
standards as they were measured at 0.6mm. It said its engineers thought that the worn tyres 
were on the balance of probabilities the cause of the accident. West Bay referred to this 
part of its policy wording:
"Where you fail to maintain the insured vehicle in a roadworthy condition, or you fail 
to look after it in accordance with General Conditions 2 of this policy;"
2.  Looking after your car You or any permitted drivers are required to maintain the 
insured vehicle in a roadworthy condition.
West Bay did agree that its service had been poor, with long call wait times and a lack of 
updates being provided to Mr W. It paid him £150 for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. There are a number of 
complaint issues and questions:
Why wasnt the tyre condition listed in the report?
Why did he receive an offer after West Bay had sight of the report?
His private number plates are no longer with the vehicle.
The car was returned to him in poor condition, with a substance like cement on the 
interior, and exterior. 
He asks for proof that "the illegal tyres are a contributing factor and on the balance of 
probabilities the cause of the accident.
He asks how West Bay can know that the wear was not caused when he crashed 
and skidded.
He asks for the claim to be paid according to the settlement offer. He also mentions that the 
courtesy car he received wasnt the type he was promised when he bought the policy, which 
was a like-for-like replacement.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought West 
Bay had acted fairly by declining the claim under the terms and conditions of its policy. 
Mr W didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Mr Ws complaint about West Bay covers several areas, so for ease of reading Ive divided it 
up and dealt with each part separately. 
Courtesy car
I can see that West Bay have already told Mr W this, but his arrangement for a like-for-like 
courtesy car was with the broker hed used to arrange his insurance policy, rather than West 
Bay. Under the terms of West Bays policy, it offers:
The courtesy car will normally be a small hatchback of less than 1200cc.
So, West Bay have complied with the terms of its policy. If Mr W wishes to take this issue 
further, he should contact his broker.
Report
From the evidence I have, I can see that the initial report didnt mention anything about the 
tyre tread. But I wouldnt necessarily expect this, because that type of report is to assess the 
car to establish whether it could be repaired or whether it would be a write-off.
Having looked at the pictures taken by West Bay of the car after the accident, I can see 
clearly that at least one of the rear tyres is substantially without tread. West Bay has said it 
measured the tread depth on the rear tyres at 0.6mm. This would normally be taken as an 
average across the tyre, and having looked at the evidence I think its fair to accept this as 
valid.
Mr W has said in his complaint that the wear could have been caused in the accident, when 
his car slid across a major road. Ive thought about this carefully and it seems to me that the 
wear on his tyres look like normal wear and tear, rather than the sort of damage that would 
happen in a crash. I say that because the surface looks polished smooth and generally worn, 
rather than being flat-spotted or rough. 
Its also reasonable to say that tyres generally wear the same across an axle, so I can fairly say that the other rear tyre was in similar condition to the one pictured. 
Rejection of the claim 
Having established that the rear tyres were, on the balance of probabilities, very worn before 
the accident happened, Its important that I examine West Bays policy wording to establish 
whether its able to reject the claim because of the condition of the tyres.
Ive already mentioned the appropriate part of the policy wording above. I think it clearly 
explains the circumstances when insurers wont provide cover. And this type of policy 
condition is common in motor insurance, so I dont think its unfair.
With the rear tyres in the condition Ive mentioned above, I think its fair and reasonable of 
West Bay to say Mr Ws car wasnt in a roadworthy condition, so Im persuaded it can 
decline Mr Ws claim under the terms and conditions of its policy.
Timing of the rejection
West Bay sent Mr W its first offer about 23 days after the accident. It had already examined 
the car at this point and taken the photos Ive referred to above. Mr W rejected the offer 
about two weeks later, and West Bay then increased its offer another two weeks later.
But I dont think West Bay have provided Mr W with the level of customer service wed 
expect. He chased West Bay many times, staying on hold for up to three hours each call. 
When West Bay made him the offer for his car, it had the photos Ive seen, so it could 
already have known there were issues with the condition of the car, which would impact on 
its acceptance of Mr Ws claim.
Where a business has made an offer in error, which they later withdraw based on further 
evidence, this doesnt mean well say they must stand by the offer. West Bay made a 
mistake in making Mr W two offers before itd properly considered the engineers report and 
photographs. It was ultimately about six weeks between the initial offer and the rejection of 
the claim, and it was Mr W who chased up West Bay and caused it to respond. 
Its unclear to me why West Bay took so long to consider and make a decision about the 
claim given the evidence it had. Because of the way West Bay handled Mr Ws claim, hes 
suffered significant distress and inconvenience.
But it wouldnt be right for me to say West Bay should pay the sum they offered Mr W for his 
car. If hed kept his car maintained and serviced, and carried out the appropriate checks on 
it, then I dont think Mr W would be in the position where his claim has been declined.
Vehicle condition and number plates
Mr W has told this service that his car was returned to him in poor condition:
with what looks like cement all over the interior, and cement splash marks all over 
the wheels & front of the car
He comments that he doesnt think its acceptable for West Bay to return his car like this, and 
has sent this service evidence of it. I can see from West Bays engineers pictures that 
shortly after the accident the car was free of external cement marks. I agree with Mr W that 
West Bay should have taken better care of his property, so I think its fair that I ask West Bay 
to clean Mr Ws car to compensate him. Im aware Mr Ws car was written-off, so he may 
have disposed of it. In which case Id ask West Bay to pay Mr W a reasonable price for a valet clean in his area.
In later correspondence, Mr W mentions that the personalised number plates havent been 
returned to him. As part of his personal belongings, Id expect these to be returned to him 
along with the car, so Id ask West Bay and Mr W to liaise to make sure all of his belongings 
are present.
Service 
I think its clear that West Bays handling of Mr Ws claim has been poor throughout, and it 
had already offered him £150 compensation for his inconvenience and long hold times. But I 
dont think this is enough. I think West Bay has been in possession of the information it 
needed to deal with the claim from very early on in the process, and it made two offers to Mr 
W before eventually declining his claim. Mr W has been caused a loss of expectation by 
withdrawal of the offers, so I think the compensation should reflect this and West Bays poor 
service.
Taking everything into account, I think the appropriate level of compensation is £500 (an 
additional £350 over the £150 already paid).
Responses to my provisional decision
West Bay said it had been told Mr Ws number plates had been taken by the initial recovery 
company who rescued Mr W after his crash. This recovery company was chosen by Mr W, 
so West Bay said he should contact that company to find them. West Bay also said it would 
pay the reasonable cost of an exterior clean to Mr Ws car, but it couldnt see evidence of the 
interior needing cleaning. It agreed to pay Mr W £500 compensation in total for his distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr W didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr W didnt respond to my provisional decision, I have looked at the information 
sent by West Bay. Having considered it, I agree that the evidence I have shows cement 
marks on the exterior of the car. So I think its fair to ask West Bay to pay for the reasonable 
cost of exterior car cleaning in Mr Ws area. I can see online that a car wash is available for 
around £25.
West Bays explanation about the number plates is logical and persuasive, and in the 
absence of further evidence from Mr W I cant ask West Bay to return something it doesnt 
have possession of. Mr W should contact the initial recovery company to locate his number 
plates.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Pay the reasonable cost of cleaning the exterior of Mr Ws car, which is £25.
Pay a total of £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. Im aware that £150 has already been paid.
West Bay Insurance plc must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman