DRN-4397237
The complaint
Miss S complaint is about an attempt to sell her property and repay a mortgage held with 
TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree. The process was delayed (for reasons Miss S 
attributes to errors and omissions on Whistletrees part) causing Miss S to pay three months 
extra interest on the mortgage.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss S and Whistletree. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the complaint 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Miss S originally took the mortgage with a lender Ill call N; the mortgage was later 
transferred to a different lender which Ill refer to here as L. Later still, L transferred the 
mortgage to Whistletree.
Miss S came to sell the mortgaged property earlier this year. The Land Registry search 
revealed that in addition to the legal charge in favour of Whistletree over the leasehold 
interest in the property, there also existed a legal charge in favour of L over the freehold 
interest in the property. Whistletrees proposed solution was to undertake to remove both 
charges on redemption of the mortgage. However, neither Miss S solicitors nor those acting 
for her buyer were willing to accept this, insisting instead that Whistletree amend the Land 
Registry entry to eliminate any reference to L.
This took until June 2023 to complete, by which time Miss S had been billed for an extra 
three months interest on the mortgage. Whistletree offered her £100 compensation for some 
minor administrative delays, but otherwise rejected the complaint, on the grounds its original 
proposal to remove both charges on redemption had been reasonable.
When the case was referred to us, our investigator thought Whistletrees position was 
reasonable and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss S asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
At the root of this claim is the presence of a second legal charge in favour of L. Clearly that 
was wrong, and whilst I appreciate Miss S holds Whistletree responsible for Ls legal charge 
still being in place, Im not sure its that clear cut whose fault it actually was. 
But even if Whistletree was at fault, I think it responded quite reasonably to the initial 
complaint by giving an undertaking to remove both charges on redemption. Thats not so 
very different from the normal undertaking to remove Whistletrees own charge on 
redemption  its unusual, but the effect is broadly the same. Whilst its not for me to say the 
two sets of solicitors involved in the transaction had to accept it, I think Whistletree had 
reasonable grounds to expect that the offer would be accepted when it was given. 
Put all of the above together, and Im not persuaded I can fairly find Whistletree responsible 
for the extra mortgage interest Miss S has had to pay. It has offered Miss S £100 
compensation for some minor administrative delays. In my view, thats fair. If the offer had 
not been made, I would not award more.
I make one further observation. In a detailed submission dated 6 October, Miss S has set 
out, in what she refers to as Part 2, details of further problems shes experienced with 
Whistletree over the merging of the freehold and leasehold titles to the property. As our 
investigator explained to her, Miss S would need to give Whistletree the opportunity to 
investigate and address these issues first. If she does that, and remains unhappy with the 
response she receives, Miss S can then ask us to investigate the new complaint separately 
from this one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be fairly resolved by TSB Bank plc trading as 
Whistletree paying Miss S the £100 it offered in its final response. I make no other order or 
award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman