DRN-3767943
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement paid by British Friendly Society Limited under his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr A took out an income protection policy in 1988 with 20 units of cover. In 2007, Mr A 
asked British Friendly if he could increase his cover to 100 units. British Friendly allowed 
this, but applied three exclusions relating to Mr As health (one of these related to his back). 
British Friendly said that two of the exclusions could be reviewed after two years, which 
included the back exclusion. 
In 2021, Mr A stopped work due to back problems. He made a claim under the policy, which 
British Friendly accepted. However, due to the back exclusion, British Friendly paid a 
settlement based on the initial 20 units of cover, rather than 100 units. Unhappy with this, 
Mr A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought British Friendly 
hadnt done anything wrong.
 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When British Friendly applied the exclusions to the policy in 2007, it advised Mr A that two of 
these could be reviewed after two years.
British Friendly wrote to Mr A in September and October 2009 offering to review the two 
exclusions for him. A phone call then apparently took place between Mr A and British 
Friendly in October 2009. Ive read the handwritten call note, and I see that Mr A advised 
British Friendly that he was still having trouble with the conditions and would contact 
British Friendly in the future if he wanted the exclusions to be reviewed. 
Mr A says that he moved in February 2009 and British Friendly didnt update his address 
when he requested this in June 2009 (once his postal redirection had ended). Therefore, the 
letters dated September and October 2009 were sent to his previous address, and he didnt 
receive these. However, as our investigator has explained, British Friendly has no record of 
Mr A updating his address in 2009. So British Friendly sent the letters to the address it had 
on file for him.
Mr A says that the phone number that British Friendly had on file for him wasnt in use when 
it says the call took place. But the call note doesnt say whether British Friendly made the 
call or received it. If British Friendly did call Mr A, we dont know the phone number that was 
used. Due to the length of time thats passed, British Friendly no longer has this information.  
Although Mr A doesnt recall speaking with British Friendly in 2009, this was over ten years 
ago and so its not surprising that he doesnt recall the conversation. 
On balance, as British Friendly has been able to provide a call note of the conversation, 
even though this was handwritten, I think its more likely than not that this conversation did 
take place. 
Though in any event, when British Friendly advised Mr A of his exclusions, it said that it 
would be prepared to review two of them after two years. It didnt say that it would instigate 
this review, and so I dont think the onus was on British Friendly to contact Mr A about the 
matter, even though it did so. 
The main point is that Mr A has never asked British Friendly to review his back exclusion. 
The exclusion therefore remained in place when the claim was made, and so Im satisfied 
British Friendly has settled the claim correctly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman