DRN-1932871
 
The complaint
Mrs P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover her store card repayments.
What happened
Mrs P took out a store card in 2004. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy cost £1.50 per £100 of the balance on Mrs Ps store card. A 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the store 
card if Mrs P was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Mrs P returned to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld because he thought Mrs P 
wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Mrs P.
Mrs P disagrees, she says she wasnt aware she had PPI and only took out the store card to 
get the promotion. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
The PPI was applied for in store when Mrs P applied for a store card. AXA have given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deal with card protection and additional card holders have been left blank. 
But I can see that Mrs P has signed for PPI in the section Protecting your Account. 
If Mrs P didnt want to take out PPI she couldve left this section blank like the others and not 
signed to take the cover. Because she signed within the PPI section rather than leaving it 
clear, I think its likely Mrs P knew she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she 
signed within the box because she wanted the cover.
I dont think Mrs P was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs P, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs P 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Mrs P needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs P says she had no other means of making her store card 
payments if she couldnt work.  The policy wouldve covered her payments if she was 
too sick to work or became unemployed. So I dont think knowing this information 
wouldve changed her mind about taking the policy and I think the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for her in her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs P and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs P on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman