DRN-2551733
The complaint
J, a limited company (through its director Ms H), complains HSBC UK Bank Plc did not 
reimburse the money it transferred to a fraudster.
Although this is a complaint by J about its business account, I will refer to Ms H rather than 
the limited company throughout much of this decision as it was Ms H who interacted with the 
fraudster.
What happened
 J, only having recently been established, employed a solicitor on an ongoing basis to assist 
with various tasks  such as securing a lease on premises for the business. Prior to the 
scam, Ms H says shed received three or four emails from the solicitor. 
On 7 August 2019, Ms H received an email which appeared to be from the solicitors asking 
whether she had money available for completion of the lease and for that money to be 
transferred to a Trust account that day. Unfortunately for Ms H the email had actually come 
from a fraudster. The emails appear to come from the solicitors genuine email address, but 
Ms Hs replies went to an email address which was one letter different  suggesting her 
replies were diverted. 
Ms H confirmed she had the money and asked how much was due. The fraudster requested 
a payment of £7,820 for work carried out and due to be carried out. Ms H queried this 
amount as it was higher than she was expecting to pay. She calculated the amount due at 
£2,350. The fraudster responded, claiming theyd made a mistake and agreeing that the 
lower figure suggested by Ms H was correct.
On 9 August 2019, after checking with her partner that the amount requested seemed 
reasonable, Ms H telephoned HSBC to make the payment. It wasnt until 23 September 
2019 when the genuine solicitor contacted Ms H with a completion statement and asked for 
payment of the actual amount due - £2734.50, that the scam came to light. 
Ms H reported the fraud the same day. HSBC attempted to recover Ms Hs money from the 
account it was sent to but appears to have been unsuccessful. 
 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. In its final response letter of 23 
October 2019, HSBC agreed that it hadnt provided effective warnings to Ms H (as required 
under the Code) but argued that she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making the 
payment, an exception to reimbursement. So, it refunded J 50% of its loss. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They were persuaded that Ms H 
had a reasonable basis of belief, particularly by the fact she had been in regular 
communication with the solicitor previously, was expecting to have to make a payment and 
the fraudulent email address was only very slightly, and barely perceptibly, different. So, they 
thought HSBC should refund the remaining 50% of the loss.
HSBC disagreed. It said Ms H had actually called and spoken to its telephone banking team 
and during that call had been given an effective warning about the scam. It said the adviser 
had thought the transaction suspicious  particularly as the account name was not the same 
as the solicitors. The adviser, they said, specifically warned Ms H about this type of scam 
and how to avoid it. 
It also continued to be of the opinion that Ms H didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in 
making the payment. It pointed to the differences between the genuine and fraudulent emails 
and the fact the fraudster had initially asked for significantly more money than expected. 
Ms H said her memory of that call wasnt very clear after such a long time had passed. She 
admitted that she was concerned about how long her business was taking to set up and was 
keen for the payment to go through. However, she doesnt recall the adviser expressing or 
conveying serious concern about the payment so as to cause her to be worried about its 
legitimacy. She also felt that HSBC ought to have asked her more about it, particularly as it 
was the first payment her business had ever made. 
Our investigator considered HSBCs comments and what Ms H had said but disagreed that 
an effective warning had been given. They argued the adviser had not gone far enough or 
explained the next steps Ms H could take to avoid the scam. So, their opinion of the 
complaint remained the same.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money J lost.  I 
am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. 
In any event, HSBC, after identifying a scam risk, ought to have gone further to 
question Ms H about the payment and, had it done so, Im satisfied the fraud would 
have come to light and the loss been prevented.
 
The money was taken from Js business current account. It is not clear how J would 
have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so HSBC 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Ms H had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine and ignored an effective warning. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular, I am not persuaded that Ms H 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code.
Ive thought carefully about whether HSBC provided an effective warning to Ms H and, while 
I accept the adviser correctly identified the risk, I dont think they went far enough to provide 
an effective warning.The adviser starts the call by describing scam scenarios and asking questions which werent 
relevant to Ms Hs circumstances. At the end of the warnings  which were predominantly 
referring to safe account or other impersonation scams - the adviser says that if Ms H isnt 
sure whether the payment is genuine she should contact the beneficiary and independently 
verify that the request is genuine and not a scam. Later on, Ms H provided the payment 
details and the advisor remarked the recipient account name wasnt the same as the name 
of the solicitors. Ms H responded to say that the solicitor had provided the name of a trust 
account where the payment would be going. The advisor acknowledged this and asked Ms 
H how she got the account details. When Ms H explained shed received the account details 
via email the following conversation took place:
HSBC: Right ok. Obviously its totally up to you Ms H, but that is sort of setting alarm bells 
ringing with myself, erm Ive had cases before where customers have received emails 
basically from situations like this where people theyve been paying and the email has been 
intercepted and the details have been changed so everything else looks exactly the same 
with the email apart from the details itself.
Ms H: Everything looks weve been in contact quite a lot of times with the solicitor so 
everything looks ok to me, I dont feel as though there should be anything to be aware of.
HSBC: Ok. No problem. As I said previously though, just to let you know again. It may not 
be possible to get any money back if it is inadvertently sent to a fraudster."
Ms H: Right.
HSBC: Ok so up to you.
This warning was clearly intended to explain the risk associated with accepting account 
details over email. I think the adviser attempts to explain this scam risk and to some extent 
attempts to bring the scam to life by describing how it works. But I dont think the adviser 
goes far enough. His description of the scam wasnt particularly clear and lacked the detail 
necessary for someone who had little or no knowledge of this sort of scam to really 
understand what it would look like. Ms Hs response, in which she suggests shed know if 
something was wrong, indicates she hadnt grasped the significance of what the adviser was 
saying. I dont think thats principally down to a lack of care on her part but rather a result of 
the warning lacking impact and not doing enough to combat the features of this type of 
scam. 
In addition, for a warning to be effective under the Code, it must also explain what practical 
steps a customer can take to avoid falling victim to the scam. Of crucial importance for a 
scam of this type is explaining that account details should be checked over the phone or in 
person. Earlier in the call the adviser does mention contacting the beneficiary to 
independently verify the request is genuine. But not only is this warning not very specific, its 
given in relation to several unrelated scam scenarios. At this point, Ms H, based on the 
scenarios outlined by the adviser, isnt unsure about whether the request is genuine and 
would have little reason to be. So, I can understand why this wouldnt have seemed relevant 
to her circumstances. 
Its also a requirement under the Code for the warning to be timely and given at a point in the 
payment journey most likely to have an impact on the Customers decision making. Without 
an explanation of the specific actions Ms H needed to take at the crucial point when the 
adviser had identified and explained the risk  I dont think Ms H, or anyone else in her 
circumstances, would necessarily understand the importance of verifying the account details 
in person or over the phone. In addition, and as Ill go on to discuss in more detail, the 
adviser seems to accept the reasons why Ms H feels comfortable making the payment  despite those reasons providing no actual protection against a scam of this nature. This 
point, I think, was the opportunity to challenge Ms H and advise her how she could actually 
address the risk. 
Overall, I dont think Ms H ignored an effective warning and neither do I think it unreasonable 
for her to have proceeded with the payment after hearing the warnings that were provided, 
for the reasons Ive explained. 
Im also persuaded that Ms H had a reasonable basis for believing the payment to be 
genuine.
Although I accept there was no indication Ms H was due to pay her solicitor that day, Ms H 
had been expecting to make a payment to the solicitor in the near future and was keen to do 
so as soon as possible to get her business up and running. Though the initial amount 
requested by the fraudster was much higher than she was expecting, I dont think the 
explanation for this  that it was simple human error on the part of the solicitor  was 
implausible. Its perhaps unfortunate for Ms H that she responded with her own calculations 
 presumably giving the fraudster an idea of how much the real solicitor would have asked 
for. That said, I can understand why it was somewhat reassuring that the solicitor agreed to 
the lower amount  especially after her partner agreed the amount was reasonable and 
didnt notice anything unusual.
Ive looked at the emails and do note there are differences between the real and fraudulent 
communications. The fraudulent email lacks some of the branding of the genuine ones as 
well as the lengthy email disclaimer  though theres nothing concerning about the tone or 
language used. At the time of receiving the emails, Ms H didnt have any particular reason to 
find them suspicious, so I wouldnt expect her to be alert to the reasonably subtle differences 
between the real and fraudulent emails. And as shed only received three or four emails 
previously  I dont think she would have been so familiar with the format that the differences 
would have necessarily stood out. 
Although the name of the account the fraudster told her to pay differed to that of the 
solicitors  the initials HS matched. It was also entirely plausible the solicitors should have a 
separate account to hold client money. Finally, it does appear that the emails she received 
came from the genuine solicitors email address  it is only the responses that go to a slightly 
different address. Im not surprised Ms H didnt notice this.
So, Im satisfied that she went into the call with HSBCs adviser having a reasonable basis 
for belief the payment request was genuine. But Ive also thought about whether what the 
adviser said in that call ought to have made Ms H think twice about what she was doing and 
question the belief she had that the payment request was genuine.
Ive thought about whether the adviser saying that alarm bells were ringing as well as 
describing a situation which could, and did, apply to her to some extent, ought reasonably to 
have given Ms H some cause for concern. However, as already noted, Ms H goes onto say 
that shes been in touch with the solicitor a few times and everything looked fine. But neither 
having been in touch with someone before nor everything looking fine was any protection 
against a scam of this type. In fact, the adviser had said that this situation occurs by the 
fraudsters inserting themselves into genuine correspondence and everything still looking the 
same, so it seems to me Ms H didnt follow or properly understand what the advisor was 
saying about the potential risk (which for the reasons Ive previously explained, I consider 
reasonable given the shortcomings Ive identified). But the adviser seems to accept Ms Hs 
comments as if they were in fact reasons to be reassured about the payment. By accepting 
Ms Hs response largely without challenge and offering to make the payment, I can 
understand why any sense of alarm would have been substantially reduced. I dont think it can be reasonably said that, at this point, Ms H was making the payment 
against the advice of the bank. The reference to verifying account details had been made 
earlier in the call (in relation to different circumstances) and was not repeated at the relevant 
time. It was not sufficiently connected to the later discussion that it was obvious this was the 
practical step she should have been taking.  And, while Im not suggesting the bank 
necessarily ought to have advised her against making the payment, whether it did or did not 
is, I think, important in establishing whether she held a reasonable basis for belief. Though 
its likely Ms Hs desire for the payment to proceed quickly played a factor here, ultimately I 
dont think she took away from that conversation that there was a strong possibility that the 
payment was not genuine or that she was taking a risk by proceeding. And, as the banks 
adviser, despite his initial concerns, did not (at the relevant time) explain the actions she 
ought to take and appeared relatively happy for her to make the payment, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her to hold that belief either. 
I also think it likely that Ms H would not have proceeded without carrying out further checks 
had the adviser, after recognising the scam risk, been clearer and gone further to make Ms 
H aware of the steps she ought to take. Had this happened, I think the loss would have been 
prevented. 
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, rather than just 
reimbursed J under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that HSBC should pay 
interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund J under the CRM 
Code.
 
Overall, though I accept this is a finely balanced case, Im persuaded that Ms H didnt ignore 
an effective warning and had a reasonable basis of belief in making the payment. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
- Pay J the remaining 50% of the money lost  £1,175, deducting any amount HSBC 
has been able to recover and return to J. 
- Pay J 8% interest on that amount from the date of the disputed transaction until the 
date of settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman