DRN-3925362
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that QIC has unfairly handled a subsidence claim under their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs P made a subsidence claim under their QIC buildings 
insurance. They described internal and external cracking to the property.
The claim was accepted, and investigations carried out. These suggested the 
damage was likely caused by clay shrinkage related to nearby trees, and that drain 
tests should be completed.
An arboriculturalist was instructed and in June 2020. And a drain specialist 
investigated concluding drain repairs would need to be carried out  these were 
completed by July 2021. The trees in question were removed  and reinstatement 
works were completed in September 2021.
Mr and Mrs P raised concerns about further cracking. And following some back and 
forth, in January 2022 QICs regional surveyor agreed for further works to be carried 
out. These were arranged for April 2022 but due to further damage occurring, 
another review took place. Around this time QIC agreed to remove its contractor from 
the claim and sought to cash settle the matter instead. 
QICs chartered surveyor revisited the property, made further recommendations, 
including some further repairs, use of new fillers and repainting.
In September 2022 the chartered surveyor reviewed the condition of the property, 
saying further slight cracking had occurred, but this was likely to be due to the ground 
adjusting after the removal of the trees (given their size and number). They 
concluded there was no evidence of further or returned subsidence.
Mr and Mrs P complained, saying the matter had taken too long, they had not been 
kept updated, the work completed was poor, and one of QICs agents acted 
unprofessionally and was not welcome at their home.
QIC provided a final response letter in October 2022. It said it appreciated Mr and 
Mrs Ps frustration with delays that had occurred and offered £1,000 in compensation 
for the delays it had caused.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this Service, providing many photographs of 
damage and repairs still required. They disputed QICs cash settlement and scope of 
works (including the replacement of foundations of a wall and concerns about the 
quality of patio works). They also described in detail the ongoing impact the claim 
had on the life of their family, and their inability to decorate or carry out works to their 
home, and the frustration caused by insects entering the property through cracks.
QIC issued a further final response in November 2022. It was satisfied its cash 
settlement offer was fair and that it did not agree that a wall needed to be replaced 
following a review from its technical team.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. Following some back and forth 
in relation to the cash settlement, QIC agreed to provide an alternative contractor to 
carry out the remaining works. QIC said other works Mr and Mrs P were seeking 
cover for, including cracking to the kitchen was not included as the damage was 
caused by thermal movement and not subsidence. It also said the disputed wall was 
built with insufficient footings/foundations so this wasnt something it would seek to 
replace. 
The Investigator assessed the complaint, in summary:
oBased on the available evidence, he was satisfied QICs scope of works was 
fair, including works to the wall  and that thermal movement was the likely 
cause of damage in dispute. 
oQICs appointment of a new contractor to complete the works was 
reasonable. He said Mr and Mrs P had provided no independent expert 
evidence that conflicted with this. Nor was he persuaded that further patio 
works were required based on the available evidence.
oHe was satisfied there were delays, poor handling, and substantial level of 
distress caused to Mr and Mrs P due to QICs mistakes. And its 
compensatory sum offered of £1,000 was sufficient in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed reiterating the impact on their family. They agreed to a new 
contractor but wanted to discuss the scope of works again before repairs begin, and 
again said a replacement of the in-question wall was necessary. They also raised 
concerns about more recent matters.
The Investigator said he was unable to consider matters that had followed after the 
final response letters. But he was satisfied QICs scope to re-point the wall was 
sufficient. Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, so, the matter has been passed to me 
for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied QICs offer of compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
The crux of this complaint is about the extent of works required to put things right and 
QICs claims handling. The issue regarding costs has now fallen away given QIC is 
going to carry out the works itself which Mr and Mrs P have agreed to.
Ive reviewed the scope of works provided. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs P feel strongly 
that further works should be included, including concerns about the wall and patio 
amongst others, but theyve given me little in the way of expert evidence to support 
why QICs proposed scope of works is either insufficient or wrong in its assessment 
that certain damage was caused by thermal movement. And having carefully reviewed all of the available reports and evidence, Im more persuaded by the 
professional opinion provided by QICs technical team and chartered surveyor. So, 
Im satisfied QICs proposed scope of works is sufficient to put things right in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
Should Mr and Mrs P provide any conflicting expert opinion that demonstrates QICs 
works are insufficient at some point, I would expect it to consider this. Likewise, QIC 
will be aware of its obligation to complete effective and lasting repairs. This means 
QIC is responsible for the works carried out by its contractors and to ensure these 
will be effective and lasting. And should any dispute arise down the line, this will be a 
matter for QIC in the first instance.
In regard to QICs claims handling, it is obligated to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
QIC has agreed that it has caused delays in this case. Ive reviewed the timeline of 
events, and Im in agreement it hasnt met its obligations. Its clear to me that this 
claim has caused substantial distress to Mr and Mrs F and their family. Ive thought 
very carefully about the impact of the delays and poor handling, including their 
inability to carry out repairs, dealing with insects, and the living arrangements theyve 
said the claim has led to, and especially how this has impacted their wellbeing. 
But I have to keep in mind that incidences of subsidence will inevitably cause an 
unavoidable degree of frustration and inconvenience to a homeowner, and I wont 
hold an insurer responsible for that. It is only the avoidable additional distress and 
inconvenience QICs failings have caused that I will make an award for. And here, Im 
satisfied the sum of £1,000 is a fair and reasonable way for QIC to acknowledge the 
impact of its poor handling of the claim on Mr and Mrs P. So, Im not going to 
increase this sum.
My final decision
QIC Europe Ltd has already made an offer to pay £1,000 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that QIC should pay Mr and Mrs P £1,000 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman