DRN-3044264
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) handled his request for a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr J has three financial agreements with Hitachi.
1. An interest-free restricted credit agreement from December 2017 (2017 Agreement)
2. A personal loan of just over £20,000 from March 2020 (2020 Loan)
3. An interest-free restricted credit agreement from March 2020 (2020 Agreement)
On 23 May 2020, Mr J contacted Hitachi to ask for a payment holiday as his income had 
reduced due to the pandemic. On 26 May, Hitachi confirmed this was agreed for all three 
agreements and that itd sent him emails for what this would involve for each agreement.
On 1 July, Hitachi sent three new agreements to Mr J. After some correspondence about the 
agreements, Mr J complained about the cost of the payment holiday. It didnt uphold his 
complaint that the interest rate was too high. However, to cover the 2020 Loan repayments 
which hadnt been made while payments were suspended, Hitachi agreed he could make a 
lump sum payment of just over £895. And, if he did this within 8 weeks and resumed usual 
repayments, Hitachi confirmed there wouldnt be an impact on his credit file. 
Mr J and Hitachi continued to correspond about the amount and also how this had been 
calculated. Mr J raised a further complaint with Hitachi. He felt itd taken too long to explain 
the full cost of the payment holiday to him. This meant his agreements were put on hold and 
two payments missed before he had a clear understanding of the implications.
Hitachi didnt change its mind about the amount of interest. It responded that, given the 
unprecedented times, it took time for it to adapt its people and systems to the circumstances 
and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance. Particularly in circumstances where its 
ordinary business model didnt allow for payment holidays. So, it allowed people to make up 
their missed payments once they understood the financial implications of the payment 
holiday if it wasnt right for them. However, it recognised it took longer than it shouldve to 
send the information to Mr J and paid £110 for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr J didnt go ahead with the payment holiday on his 2020 Loan. He made the lump sum 
payment to cover the repayments hed missed and set up a direct debit. The payment 
holiday was implemented on the other two credit agreements with no additional interest as 
they were interest free.
Mr J came to our service. He said the additional interest due because of the payment holiday 
is too high. He thought Hitachi took too long to explain how itd been calculated. The delay 
put him in financial difficulties as he had to borrow money to make the payments. Further, 
Hitachi stopped repayments on all agreements, but he just wanted help with the 2020 Loan.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought Hitachi had acted fairly and in line with guidance from the FCA regarding how Covid-
19-related payment holidays should be applied. He didnt agree it could be held responsible 
for the financial difficulties Mr J later found himself in. However, he recognised there had 
been a delay in Hitachi giving the interest information to him but felt Hitachis payment fairly 
compensated him for this.
Mr J didnt accept this. As he remains unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont 
uphold Mr Js complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Amount of additional interest 
The FCAs Covid-19 temporary relief guidance states interest can continue to be charged 
during the payment holiday. It doesnt say additional interest shouldnt be charged if a loan 
term is extended to clear arrears following such a break. So, Im satisfied Hitachi applied the 
guidance correctly when deciding to charge Mr J additional interest for a payment holiday on 
his 2020 Loan. And I havent seen any evidence it was calculated incorrectly.
Delay in giving information to Mr J 
Hitachi accepts it didnt make clear to Mr J the full cost of the payment holiday as soon as it 
should have. So, Ive considered what Mr J wouldve done if he'd been given the information 
sooner. When he was told the total cost of the payment holiday, he took the option Hitachi 
gave to make up the payments hed missed rather than go ahead with the payment holiday 
on the 2020 Loan. So, I accept if Mr J had been told this sooner, he wouldve made the 
same decision, earlier.
Ive then considered whether the delay in this decision financially affected Mr J. He was 
expected to make up the repayments hed missed, which I think is reasonable. But he hasnt 
been charged any more interest than he wouldve been charged had he decided not to take 
a payment holiday sooner. Had he made his repayments on the 2020 Loan as he should 
have for the period May to November 2020, he wouldve paid out the same amount as he 
actually paid for the same period. So, I dont consider hes out of pocket as a result. It follows 
that I dont agree Hitachi should be held responsible for the financial difficulties Mr J later 
found himself in.
If hed been given the information sooner, he mightve been saved some frustration and 
hassle. But I note Hitachi apologised for this and paid him £110. I consider this to be a fair 
and reasonable way for it to have recognised this, so I wont be asking it to do any more.
Payment holiday on all three agreements 
Mr J says he only asked Hitachi for a payment holiday on the 2020 Loan. I dont see things 
the same. His original request doesnt differentiate between the three agreements he has 
with it and he doesnt mention this in any of the later correspondence with Hitachi which was 
clear it related to all three agreements. Just as he decided to do with his 2020 Loan, Mr J didnt need to go ahead with the payment 
holiday on the other two credit agreements, but he did. Even if this wasnt the case, the 
payment holiday on the interest free agreements was offered without any additional interest 
being charged so I couldnt say this has had a negative impact on Mr J. 
Summary
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Mr J wasnt financially disadvantaged by the 
time it took Hitachi to give him the interest information. Nor do I considered it acted 
unreasonably by intending to charge him additional interest for the payment holiday. So, 
Hitachi doesnt need to do any more to resolve this complaint.
I accept my decision will come to disappoint to Mr J. But, for the reasons set out above, I
dont require Hitachi to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what
we  in attempting to resolve Mr Js dispute with Hitachi  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint that 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance needs to do anything more than 
it has already done to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman