DRN-3040122
The complaint
Mr C complains Santander UK Plc credited his account with an incorrect sum.
Santander says it credited the sum which Mr C had handed over to its cashiers.
What happened
Mr C told us he had taken some money into a branch of Santander.  He had wanted to make 
a large purchase and needed to have money in his account in order to transfer the funds.  
He said he had kept some money at home  money he had earnt and which he had not paid  
into his account for some time.
Mr C said he took £10000 in and handed this to the cashier.  A second cashier came along, 
took his money behind the counter and counted it.  He (the second cashier) told Mr C that he 
had only counted £6000.
But Mr C was insistent he had brought £10000 in and complained.  When Santander did not 
uphold his complaint, he came to this service.
He told us that the money had been taken out of his sight by the cashier.  He was adamant 
that he had taken in £10000 and wanted Santander to pay him the missing £4000.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Santander to do anymore  and explained why to 
Mr C.  But Mr C made further submissions and asked for an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid its bad news for Mr C as I have arrived at the same outcome as 
the investigator  and for very much the same reasons.
Ill remind Mr C that I need to make a decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened here, based on the evidence I have.  Im not disregarding what he says or what he 
remembers  but the evidence from the Santander branch manager as to the steps taken 
when Mr C complained lead me to conclude that its more likely than not that Mr C was 
mistaken with how much money he had brought into the branch.
If I were to accept what Mr C says, I would have to make a finding that between the two 
cashiers, they managed to conceal £4000 of his money in the short space of time that he 
says it was out of his sight.  They then managed to conceal this money from the manager 
when checks were carried out of the CCTV footage and on bags belonging to members of 
staff.  I just dont think that is plausible.
The recollection of the cashier is that Mr C told her he hadnt counted the money either when 
he received it or before he had brought it into the branch.  In fact, it was still bundled 
together from some time ago and this was obvious to the cashier.
Santander has also told us that both cashiers checked the amount in front of Mr C.  Mr C 
was then given an opportunity to take the money home and check but he asked for it to paid 
into his account instead.
As I say, I think its likely that Mr C is mistaken here.  The supporting evidence from 
Santander leads me to conclude that he only ever handed over £6000 and for this reason, I 
wont be asking Santander to do anymore either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman