DRN-1757515
Complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK plc trading as Cahoot acted unfairly when it removed his 
overdraft facility and reported adverse information about his account to credit reference 
agencies.
Background
Mr F had an approved overdraft on his current account with Cahoot. He lost his job in 2018 
and he says he wasnt able to make regular credits to the account after that. He says Cahoot 
removed the approved overdraft because he wasnt paying his salary into the account. He 
says it didnt consult with him before doing this. 
He agreed a payment plan with Cahoot and subsequently repaid all of the overdraft. But, he 
says Cahoot entered adverse information with credit reference agencies. He says it 
shouldnt have done this because he never exceeded the approved limit thatd been agreed 
for his approved overdraft. So, he complained to Cahoot.
Cahoot investigated his complaint. It said the approved overdraft was removed in line with 
the terms and conditions. It said it would normally send a letter out before this was done. It 
also said that once the approved overdraft limit was removed the overdraft became 
unapproved. And, it hadnt done anything wrong when it reported the unapproved overdraft 
to credit reference agencies.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with this response and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She said that Cahoot hadnt done anything wrong when it 
removed the approved overdraft. She said this was in line with the terms and conditions for 
the account. She said Cahoot had sent notices to Mr F about this but he hadnt contacted it 
until several weeks later. In these circumstances she thought Cahoot had passed correct 
information to the credit reference agencies. She also said shed checked the credit report 
and a default hadnt been reported.
Mr F didnt agree. He said he didnt get any notices because hed left the family home due to 
his personal circumstances. He didnt think Cahoot had treated him fairly. He said hed been 
a loyal customer of Cahoot for a long period of time. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These state that Cahoot can review 
the overdraft limit at any time and will usually give 30 days notice of its intention to change 
the arranged overdraft limit. The terms and conditions also say that the customer is expected 
to make monthly payments into the account and if this doesnt happen then Cahoot can 
withdraw the overdraft.So, Im satisfied that when the monthly payments werent being made into the account 
Cahoot was able to withdraw the approved overdraft facility. Ive also looked at the letters 
Cahoot sent to Mr F at the address recorded on its systems. I can see that it sent Mr F 
letters in October, November and December, warning him that the arranged overdraft could 
be withdrawn if regular payments werent made into the account. The letters also provided 
details about how Mr F could contact Cahoot if he wanted to discuss the matter.
Mr F says he didnt get the letters because hed moved out of the family home. I can see this 
was a difficult time for Mr F and Im sorry to hear about the issues he faced at this time. But, 
I cant say Cahoot did anything wrong or that it treated him unfairly. 
It didnt have an alternative address for Mr F and he didnt contact it in the way itd requested 
until January 2019. Cahoot did discuss and agree a repayment plan with him at that time. 
The repayment plan dealt with clearing the outstanding balance over a period of time.
Once the approved limit was removed the whole balance became an unapproved overdraft. 
So, even though Mr F says he never exceeded the approved limit, that wasnt the case once 
the limit was removed. And, in these circumstances Cahoot was able to pass information 
about the status of the account to credit reference agencies.
I agree with our investigator that Cahoot didnt report a default on the account. This was 
because the outstanding balance was cleared within six months. But, it did correctly report 
the status of the account up to the date when the debt was repaid in full. 
So, having considered everything here, I dont think Cahoot did anything wrong. I think it 
acted fairly and reasonably when it tried to contact Mr F. And, it was only when he didnt 
respond that it removed the approved limit. In these circumstances, I dont require it to 
remove the information that it passed to credit reference agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc trading 
as Cahoot.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman