DRN-3221501
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to him the 
money that hes claimed for two sofas. 
What happened
Mr L bought two sofas and a chair from a retailer in February 2020 for a total cost of £8,070. 
He paid £4,035 by credit card at that time and paid £4,035 using his Barclaycard credit card 
in August 2020. The furniture was then delivered to him but the sofas were a different colour 
to the swatch that hed been provided. The chair was acceptable to him. He contacted the 
retailer about the sofas and it offered to replace them but couldnt guarantee that the colour 
would be an exact match to the swatch. It also offered to collect the sofas and refund Mr L 
for the cost of them  which was £7,148. 
Mr L wanted to keep the sofas and for the retailer to refund 50% of the price to him but it 
would only refund £1,400 to him. Mr L accepted the refund of £1,400  which was paid to 
him in December 2020  and claimed the difference between that amount and 50% of the 
price of the sofas (which was £2,174) from Barclaycard under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
It said that it considered the refund from the retailer to be an acceptable resolution and that it 
wouldnt consider refunding any other amounts to Mr L. Mr L wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that 
section 75 isnt designed to put consumers in a state of betterment  and allowing Mr L to 
keep the sofas and providing him with a 50% refund would mean that hed have obtained the 
sofas at half their cost. She said that section 75 wasnt designed to do that as it was 
designed to remedy the breach altogether, by either repairing or replacing faulty or incorrect 
goods, or requiring them to be returned to the merchant for a full refund. She said that Mr L 
had been offered that so she had no grounds to say that Barclaycard had acted incorrectly.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that a breach 
of contract occurred and the resolution was that hed keep both sofas but only if he received 
a 50% refund. The retailer would only refund £1,400 so under section 75 Barclaycard is 
liable for the remainder of £2,174.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr L paid for at least half of the cost of the furniture using his Barclaycard credit card 
and, in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ls complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer and that 
Barclaycards response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ls claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
theres no dispute that theres been a breach of contract  the retailer arranged for 
the sofas to be inspected which identified that the sofas were a different colour to the 
swatch that Mr L had been provided;
the retailer offered to replace the sofas but couldnt guarantee that the colour would 
be an exact match to the swatch  so that wasnt acceptable to Mr L;
the retailer also offered to collect the sofas and refund Mr L for the cost of them  but 
that wasnt acceptable to him either;
he said that he wanted to keep the sofas and for the retailer to refund 50% of the 
price to him;
it would only offer to refund £1,400 to Mr L and he accepted that refund which was 
paid to him in December 2020 - he then claimed the difference between that amount 
and 50% of the price of the sofas from Barclaycard under section 75;
I consider that the retailers offers to remedy the breach of contract were fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances  it offered to replace the sofas or to collect them 
and refund their price  and that either of them would have been an appropriate 
remedy for its breach of contract;
Mr L didnt accept either of those remedies but agreed to accept a refund of £1,400 
and to keep the sofas  although its clear that he wanted a 50% refund  and I 
consider that to have been an appropriate remedy for the breach of contract;
Barclaycard said that it considered the refund from the retailer to be an acceptable 
resolution; 
Mr L doesnt have a right under section 75 to keep the sofas and to receive a refund 
of 50% of their price  and I dont consider that there was any requirement for 
Barclaycard to agree to refund £2,174 to him; 
he chose to accept the retailers offer of a £1,400 so that he could keep the sofas and 
he chose not to accept the other remedies that hed been offered;
I consider that Barclaycards response to Mr Ls claim was fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to refund to 
Mr L the £2,174 that hes claimed, to pay him any other compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman