DRN-3756496
The complaint
Mr F, who is represented by a third party, complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio 
Retail) irresponsibly gave him a revolving credit account facility he couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2019 Studio Retail granted Mr F an account with an initial credit facility of £450. 
There four credit limit increases after that: in October 2019 to £500; in December 2019 to 
£750; in March 2020 to £875; in then in June 2020 to £1,000.
Mr F complained to Studio Retail to say that it should not have granted him the account 
and credit limit increases given his financial situation. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. Because Mr F disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing credit and increased credit to Mr F, Studio Retail says it carried out a  
check using a credit reference agency to decide on the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. It also told us that Mr Fs account was then assessed on a regular basis from the 
credit check information. Similarly, the credit limits were then set using the same type of 
updated information plus regular observation of Mr Fs management of his account.
Its possible that Studio Retails checks werent sufficient. But even if the checks 
werent as good as they should have been, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Studio Retail to think the initial credit limit or the subsequent credit increase 
were unaffordable. I say this because Studio Retail gave Mr F an initial credit limit of 
£450, which even if the whole credit was used, would require relatively modest 
monthly repayments. At the time of his application, Mr F said he earned an annual 
income of around £26,000, although the credit checks werent able to verify this. His 
management of other credit in the past had generally been good and there was no 
evidence from the checks of financial difficulties such as defaulted accounts or county 
court judgments. Taking all of this into consideration. I dont think that better checks at 
this point would have led Studio Retail to decline the opening credit.
Turning to the four credit limit increases, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr F appears 
to have been able to meet the repayments required for each of these, based on his 
monthly income and the monthly commitments he told us about. Ive seen that he tended 
to make minimum payments each month and used up a high proportion of the available 
credit. Throughout the time he was being given credit limit increases, he didnt miss or 
make any late payments  although Ive noticed that he went over his limit and incurred 
a charge just before his credit limit was increased to £1,000. But generally, Mr F 
appeared to be managing the account well, with little evidence to suggest he was getting 
into difficulty. At the same time he was handling his credit elsewhere and meeting his 
day-to-day living expenses. Ive seen from Mr Fs bank statements that whilst he 
occasionally went into his overdraft, his monthly income and regular expenditure were 
maintained so that his overall financial position wasnt worsening as a result of his use of 
this and other credit. 
Overall, whilst I agree Studio Retail ought to have carried out more thorough checks for 
the second, third and fourth increases, such as to see what Mr Fs income was, I havent 
seen enough to persuade me that Studio Retail should have seen that Mr F financial 
circumstances were in such a way as to make giving him additional amounts of credit 
unreasonable. 
So, although I cant say that all of Studio Retails actions were necessarily appropriate, I 
dont make any award as I dont think Mr F was caused any loss or material distress or 
inconvenience as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman