DRN-1438722
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the amount of money Southern Rock Insurance Company (SRIC)
has paid to settle his motor insurance claim following a car accident. 
What happened
In April 2017, Mr F took out a car insurance policy with SRIC. He bought the policy online via 
a price comparison website. In July 2017, he reported to SRIC that he had been involved in 
a car accident. The claim was accepted, the car was written off and considered a total loss. 
When validating the claim, Mr F told SRIC that he had been unemployed for three months 
and SRIC said this meant he wasnt employed when he bought the policy.
They said Mr F had answered the question about his employment status incorrectly when 
buying the policy, meaning he had made a qualifying misrepresentation. SRIC said had Mr F 
told them he was unemployed, they wouldve offered him cover but it wouldve been charged 
at a higher premium. They determined they had only charged him 52% of the premiums had 
they known the correct information, so they decided to settle his claim on the same 
proportional basis. They paid 52% of the claim which totalled approximately £1,500.
Mr F was unhappy with this and said he would accept SRICs settlement offer in the interim 
but he wanted to complain as he didnt believe this was fair. SRIC said as Mr F accepted the 
settlement amount, this wasnt an interim payment. 
In April 2019, Mr F complained to SRIC. They said they were correct to settle the claim on a 
proportionate basis because the incorrect employment details were provided. However they 
acknowledged they had made an error when calculating the proportion. They apologised and 
said the correct figure should be 54% and the claim shouldve been settled on that basis. 
They paid the difference to Mr F. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr F brought his complaint to our service and our investigator 
thought it shouldnt be upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation 
because Mr F was unemployed when he bought the policy. But they didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless meaning SRIC was entitled to settle the 
claim proportionately. Mr F disagreed.
Mr F has since told our service he was working and he has provided a letter from his 
previous employer which confirmed the dates of his employment. As this period covered the 
time when Mr F bought the policy, this letter was forwarded to SRIC for their consideration.
SRIC questioned the validity of the letter and said they were surprised it had been provided 
at this late stage of the complaint. They also said if the dates were correct, Mr F wouldve 
been unemployed for approximately two months at the time of the claim and he failed to let 
them know about this.  Had he done so, they said he wouldve been recorded as being 
unemployed and an additional premium wouldve been charged. 
The investigator asked Mr F for more supporting evidence to demonstrate he was working 
when he bought the policy. However this information hasnt been provided. 
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
At this point, I must explain in this decision I have only considered whether SRIC acted fairly 
by settling the claim on a proportionate basis. I havent considered whether SRICs market 
value figure of the car was enough nor whether it was fair for them to make deductions. I 
understand these have been dealt with under a separate complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
SRIC believes Mr F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
told them he was employed at the time of buying the policy. They said when buying the 
policy online, Mr F was asked about his employment status and occupation. SRIC has 
provided a copy of the policy proposal form which outlined the answers Mr F gave. He 
answered to say he was employed and he also provided a job title and employment sector. 
SRIC relied on this information to be answered to the best of his knowledge in order to allow 
them to determine whether they would provide cover and how much should be charged for it. 
Im satisfied Mr F was asked a clear question about his employment status and this is 
commonly asked by insurers. 
However Ive listened to the call when Mr F reported the car accident in July 2017 and he 
said he had been unemployed for about three months. As this period covers the date he 
bought the policy, SRIC said a misrepresentation had been made and I believe it was 
reasonable for them to say so. There is no evidence to suggest Mr F disputed this or told 
SRIC that he was employed when he bought the policy.
Our investigator issued their opinion and also concluded Mr F wasnt working. However 
since that time, Mr F has told us that he was employed and he has provided a letter from his 
former employer which said he was working for them between March 2016 and May 2017. If 
this was the case, I wouldve expected Mr F to have told SRIC and our service about this 
sooner in response to the complaint, but there is no evidence that he did. In order to verify 
his employment, we asked him for more information, such as payslips or a P45. However 
this information hasnt been provided. Taking everything into account, on balance I believe its most likely Mr F was unemployed when he bought the policy because he hasnt provided 
enough evidence to persuade me he was employed.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr F was asked a clear question about his employment status when he 
bought the policy but he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I  
say this because he wouldve known whether or not he was employed. 
SRIC has provided a details of its underwriting criteria which shows they wouldve charged 
Mr F a higher premium if he had said he was unemployed when buying a policy. As SRIC 
wouldve done something differently had they been told the correct information, Im satisfied 
Mr Fs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
SRIC havent said whether they consider the misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless 
and where this happens, CIDRA says it should be treated as careless and I think this is 
reasonable given the circumstances as outlined above. As Im satisfied Mr Fs 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions SRIC can take in 
accordance with CIDRA.
Had SRIC known the correct information they wouldve charged him more to provide cover. 
Therefore as Mr F has made a claim under the policy, they are entitled to settle the claim on 
a proportionate basis based on what Mr F shouldve paid. 
Overall, Im satisfied a careless qualified misrepresentation was made by Mr F and its 
reasonable for SRIC to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing SRIC to rely on it 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman