DRN-2493008
The complaint
 Mr C complains that a car acquired from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Hes rejected the car but hes unhappy that BMWFS have retained his 
monthly payments.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that decision I explained why I proposed 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint and require BMWFS to pay interest on Mr Cs deposit (which has 
already been returned) and to pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by the car breaking down on several occasions and for the upset caused by 
the delay in responding to Mr Cs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to make 
before I finally determined the matter.
Mr C said he thought the delay before BMWFS accepted the rejection was unacceptable, 
which had caused him to have to chase them on numerous occasions. He said that based 
on the options presented to him by BMWFS he would have preferred to have a replacement 
car of similar specification, and failing that, his money back. He said it had taken BMWFS a 
long time to let him know that his rejection of the car had been accepted and that it was only 
at this point that he was told he wouldnt get all of his money back. 
Despite a reminder, BMWFS didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive taken Mr Cs further comments into account. However, as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that Mr C should receive a refund of monthly payments because 
I can see that hes had fair use of the car. 
I appreciate that it took a long time to resolve Mr Cs complaint, but I dont think this delay 
significantly affected the mileage covered by Mr C because he had exceeded the mileage 
allowance by more than twice the contractual allowance.
Ive taken into account the fact that Mr C was without the use of the car on several occasions 
when it went in for repair and this is already reflected in the award of compensation I have 
made. 
Putting things right
 For these reasons  as well as those Ive set out in my provisional decision  I uphold the 
complaint. BMWFS should put things right by paying interest on the deposit already 
refunded and pay compensation. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must 
pay 8% simple interest on the refund of Mr Cs deposit from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement and it must also pay compensation of £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman