DRN-2443957
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr T under a hire agreement with Nissan Finance that he signed 
in January 2019. He had some issues with the car within about two weeks of it being 
supplied to him. He said that he wanted to reject the car but Nissan Finance says that it 
didnt receive his letter.
He complained to Nissan Finance and it said that he should take the car to a manufacturers 
dealer for investigation. Mr T didnt do so and complained to this service. Hes continued to 
drive the car but it broke down in October 2019 and again in January 2020.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that the 
car had been free from minor defects, durable or fit for purpose so she said that Mr T should 
be able to reject the car. She recommended that Nissan Finance should: end the agreement; 
refund the deposit (with interest) and the £95 cost of the diagnostic report; and pay him £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Neither Mr T nor Nissan Finance has accepted the investigators recommendation so Ive 
been asked to consider this complaint. Mr T says, in summary, that he should receive a 
refund of some of his rental payments. Nissan Finance says, in summary, that: the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires the car to be returned to the dealer within 30 days if its 
to be rejected; it didnt receive Mr Ts letter in February 2019; and he continued to drive the 
car until it broke down in October 2019.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Nissan Finance on 30 September 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Nissan Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr T was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it 
would be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also covers durability 
which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a 
number of factors.
The car was supplied to Mr T in February 2019 and he says that he had issues with it 
within the first two weeks. Hes provided a copy of a letter that he says he sent in 
February 2019  its addressed to the manufacturer (not to Nissan Finance) but was 
sent to Nissan Finances address. Nissan Finance says that it didnt receive that 
letter.
Mr T called out a mobile mechanic later that month and a fault with the emissions 
was diagnosed. Mr T says that he was advised not to drive the car so he sent two 
more letters before he received a response from Nissan Finance. It said that it had 
no record of the car being seen by the manufacturer or dealer so it asked him to take 
the car to a manufacturers dealer.
He says that he didnt do so because hed been advised not to drive the car  but he 
then decided to start driving it again. It broke down in October 2019 and was 
recovered to a manufacturers dealer. The recovery report records the cars mileage 
as being 8,483 miles. The dealer said that the breakdown had been caused by a 
software issue so it completed a software update.
The car broke down again in January 2020. The recovery report shows that the cars 
mileage was 10,506 and a number of faults were identified. Mr T says that it hasnt 
been driven since then, isnt insured and is stored off-road on private property about 
150 miles from his house.
I consider it to be more likely than not that there were issues with the car within a few 
weeks of it being supplied to Mr T and that he did send a letter within 30 days of the 
car being supplied to him in which he said that he wanted to reject the car. Nissan 
Finance says that it didnt receive that letter. It also says that the Consumer Rights 
Act requires the car to be returned to the dealer within 30 days if its to be rejected.
Nissan Finance, not the dealer, supplied the car to Mr T and Im not persuaded that 
the Consumer Rights Act required the car to be returned to the dealer or to Nissan 
Finance. The Act says:
The right [to reject] is exercised if the consumer indicates to the trader that 
the consumer is rejecting the goods and treating the contract as at an end; 
and: From the time when the right is exercised  the trader has a duty to 
give the consumer a refund , and the consumer has a duty to make the 
goods available for collection by the trader or (if there is an agreement for the 
consumer to return rejected goods) to return them as agreed.
I consider that Mr T should have been allowed to reject in February 2019. There have 
been further issues with the car since then and I dont consider that its reasonable to 
expect a car that was supplied as new to have so many issues within its first year of 
use. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Nissan Finance to now allow 
Mr T to reject the car  so I find that it should end the agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected.
Theres no reference in the agreement to any deposit or advance rental paid by Mr T. 
Mr T has stopped making the payments for the car and his account is in arrears. Mr T 
was able to use the car to drive 10,506 in less than a year and the agreement 
included a maximum annual mileage limit of 12,000 miles. I consider that its fair and 
reasonable for Nissan Finance to keep the monthly payments under the agreement 
for the period up to the beginning of February 2020 as payment for the use that Mr T 
has had from the car - but that it should refund to Mr T any payments that have been 
made under the agreement relating to the period after the beginning of February 
2020. I consider that it should also pay interest on those payments and that it should 
remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T paid £95 to the mobile mechanic in February 2019 and I consider that its fair 
and reasonable for him to be reimbursed for that payment, with interest. These 
events have caused Mr T distress and inconvenience. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Nissan Finance to also pay him £150 to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience.
So subject to any further representations by Mr T or Nissan Finance, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Mr T says that Nissan Finance has 
continued to collect payments from him which has caused him financial and health 
difficulties. He says that hes had to pay storage costs of £50 each month and other costs 
totalling £720. He also says that hes received a notice of sums in arrears from Nissan 
Finance.
Nissan Finance has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision from the dealer 
in which the dealer explains why it considers that the car was of satisfactory quality and why 
I havent applied the Consumer Rights Act correctly. The dealer says Mr T didnt return the 
car to it and the continued use of the car shows that it was of satisfactory quality and fault 
free. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive carefully considered the detailed comments that Nissan Finance has provided from the 
dealer in response to my provisional decision. but Im not persuaded that I should change 
my provisional decision.
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr T has had the issues that hes described with 
the car and I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a new car to have such issues so 
soon after it was supplied to him. I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T and that he should be allowed to reject it as 
described in my provisional decision.
I sympathise with Mr T for the financial and other difficulties that hes described but I 
consider that the outcome that I set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances. It was Mr Ts decision to pay for the car to be stored and Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Nissan Finance to reimburse 
him for those storage costs. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
hes incurred the other costs totalling £720 solely because of the difficulties that hes had 
with the car and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Nissan 
Finance to reimburse him for those costs.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Nissan Finance to allow 
Mr T to reject the car and to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set 
out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order RCI Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Nissan Finance, to:1. End the hire agreement and arrange for the car to be collected  both at no cost to 
Mr T.
2. Refund to Mr T any monthly payments that hes made under the agreement relating 
to the period from the beginning of February 2020.
3. Pay £95 to Mr T to reimburse him for the cost of the mobile mechanic.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove all information about the hire agreement that its recorded on Mr Ts credit 
file.
6. Pay £150 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nissan Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment
referred to at 4 above. Nissan Finance must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax
its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman