DRN-4018054
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding a transfer they wanted to make.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P instructed a transfer of £12,000 to an ISA account. But Santander stopped 
the transfer and blocked Mr P and Mrs Ps account. Mr P and Mrs P werent happy with the 
steps they needed to take to unblock their account and they felt theyd lost out on interest 
because of the delay in the transfer being completed. So, they raised a complaint.
Santander responded to Mr P and Mrs P and explained that the transfer had been stopped 
so that security checks could be completed and said they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
requiring those checks. Mr P and Mrs P werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they 
referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P and Mrs P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Santander have explained that because the instructed transfer was the first payment being 
made to the account in question that their protocols mandate that an enhanced security 
process be undertaken. This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and it must be noted that it 
wouldnt be within the remit of this service to instruct a bank to change their policies and 
protocols regarding such matters.
Additionally, Santander confirm that when Mr P called to instruct the transfer on Friday 16 
December 2022, he was told at that time that more detailed security checks would need to 
be carried out, but Mr P said he didnt have time to do so and ended the call. And when Mr P 
and Mrs P attempted to instruct the transfer again the following day, Saturday 17 December, 
it triggered Santanders security systems and was referred to their fraud team for review. 
Santander explained that they attempted to call Mr P on Monday 19 December to enable 
him to authorise the transfer as per their requirements, but there was no answer and no 
facility for Santander to leave a message. Because of this, Santander sent a text message to 
Mr P and Mrs P asking them to contact Santander. And following this Mr P spoke with 
Santander and went into branch the next day with ID documents to authorise the transfer.
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy with the steps they had to take to authorise the transfer and 
feel that because the transfer to their ISA was delayed, they lost out on several days interest 
as a result. 
I accept that Mr P and Mrs P were inconvenienced by what happened here. But given the 
requirement and obligations on banks such as Santander to have systems in place to protect 
their customers money and to check for suspicious activity, it can be the case in certain 
situations that a degree of inconvenience for customers can unfortunately be necessary. And 
I feel that this is whats happened in this instance.  
Given that I feel it was reasonable for Santander to require the additional security checks 
that they did here, I feel the inconvenience that Mr P and Mrs P experienced was an 
unfortunately necessary consequence of the requirement for those enhanced security 
checks. And because I feel that the level of inconvenience Mr P and Mrs P experienced here 
was necessary, I dont feel that it was unfair. 
Additionally, because Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander to require the further 
security checks on the transfer, I feel it was for Mr P and Mrs P to complete those checks in 
a timely manner  if they were concerned about any potential loss of interest that may have 
occurred resultant from any delay in the transfer being made. And so, I wont be instructing 
Santander to reimburse any amount to Mr P and Mrs P regarding claimed loss of interest as 
they would like.
All of which means that I dont feel Santander have acted unfairly towards Mr P and Mrs P 
here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander 
to take any further action. I hope Mr P and Mrs P will understand, given what Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman