DRN-2528094
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis sold a motor insurance policy by Swinton Group Ltd 
(Swinton) as it included a windscreen claim endorsement which was not explained to him.    
What happened
On 13 January 2020 Mr C took out a motor insurance policy with Swinton following a search 
on a comparison website. Mr C completed the purchase with Swinton by phone and was 
sent the policy documents by e mail following the call. 
On 19 June 2020 Mr C contacted Swinton to make a claim for a damaged windscreen. 
Swinton advised Mr C that they would only cover the first £150 of the windscreen cost under 
the terms of the policy and Mr C was left with a bill of £420 for the remainder of the cost of 
the replacement windscreen. 
Mr C told us that this was unexpected, and the term limiting his windscreen cover was not 
explained to him during the purchase of the policy. He complained to Swinton that this 
limitation was not explained to him.  
Swinton looked into Mr Cs complaint and they issued a final response on 24 June 2020. In 
their response, Swinton said that during the telephone call in which Mr C purchased the 
policy, the call handler explained that it was an Essentials Policy, and outlined the key 
information for the policy. She confirmed that the policy covered for up to £150 windscreen 
cover, and that excesses would apply. Swinton said that Mr C confirmed that he was happy 
with this after he had been told. 
Mr C was unhappy with this response as he did not think the limitation on cover was properly 
explained, and he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Cs complaint. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint was upheld. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether Swinton provided the right information in an 
understandable way to Mr C during the purchase of the policy, so that he was making an 
informed choice about the policy. This includes making sure that information was included 
about the policy terms, benefits, exclusions and limitations.  I have looked at all the 
documents provided by Mr C and Swinton, and I have listened to the call on 13 January 
2020 when Mr C purchased the policy. 
The first time that the windscreen limitation is mentioned to Mr C is during the phone call 
with Swinton when he is buying the policy. The call handler goes through the excesses first, 
and in relation to windscreen cover she says, If you use Swinton accident and claims 
service you do not pay anything for repair, and its £50 for a replacement. Non approved 
repair will cost more, but full details of that can be found in your policy schedule .
She then reads out the policy terms and conditions to Mr C, listing the cover provided.  She 
says, Your windscreen cover is limited to £150, excesses will apply At the end of the list 
she asks, Are you happy to go ahead with the policy. To which Mr C replies Yes.  
I think that as Mr C is clearly told about the limitation, and acknowledges it, I can fairly say 
that Swinton drew it to his attention. 
Ive then thought about the documents that were sent to Mr C and whether they were clear 
enough to warn him about the endorsement. 
Mr C asks for the policy documents to be provided by e mail, and they were sent to him on 
13 January 2020 with a covering letter. 
The covering letter told Mr C to read his policy documents, and in the policy schedule 
attached, there is a Windscreen Cover Endorsement listed in page 1 of the schedule, which 
is detailed at page 2. In the endorsement it says:
You will have to pay an excess for repair or replacement depending on who repairs the 
windscreen as detailed below:
If you use Swinton Accident and Claims Service the excess amount for:
- Repair is - £0
- Replacement is  - £50
If you use a different Glass providers service, the excess amount for:
- Repair is £25
- Replacement is  - £100
- And the maximum payable by us after the excess has been paid is £100
The final document which contains information about the limitation is the policy booklet 
which was sent with the schedule. Section 4 contains the information about windscreens and 
windows. It says
We will pay up to £150 for the costs of:
Repairing or replacing a damaged windscreen or windows of your car
I think that the information in the policy booklet is quite clear, and the endorsement warning 
on the schedule is prominent enough to put Mr C on notice that there is a restriction that he 
needs to read. I think that the information in the schedule could be clearer, but it does say the maximum 
payable after the excess is £100. Mr C has not told us that he found the information 
confusing, but that he was not made aware of the endorsement at all, so the fact that I think 
it is a little confusing isnt really relevant as Mr C doesnt say he was mis-led by it. In any 
event, the policy booklet is clear, and repeats the information that Mr C was given in the 
sales call. If Mr C had any concerns about the wording or policy limits, he could have phoned 
Swinton to clarify the position. 
I am therefore satisfied that Mr C was given sufficient information about the restriction, and 
Swinton have done nothing wrong here.  
My final decision
As I am not upholding this complaint I will not be asking Swinton Group Ltd to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman