DRN-3093331
The complaint
Mr D wants Revolut Ltd to refund him the money he sent to their customers as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Between June and July 2019 Mr D sent over £200,000 (in Euros) from his account with his 
own bank to two different Revolut accounts. At the time he believed he was making the 
payments in relation to a mortgage with a well-known international bank. Unfortunately, it 
turned out that he was in contact with scammers, who had directed him to make the 
payments to two different Revolut accounts. 
When the scam was discovered, Mr D reported this to the relevant parties. Ultimately 
Revolut declined to reimburse Mr D and a complaint was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She recommended that Revolut 
pay Mr D £18,950 plus interest. Revolut accepted our investigators outcome but Mr D 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds payments were split between two Revolut accounts, to differentiate between these Ill 
refer to them as account A and account B. For Mr Ds reference account A is the account he 
paid where the account number ends 87 and account Bs account number ends with 25.
Im satisfied that Revolut followed their usual processes when opening both accounts in line 
with their regulatory obligations to do so. And I dont think there was anything at that stage 
that reasonably could have alerted them that either account would later be used in 
connection with a fraud or scam. I appreciate Mr D has said he opened his own Revolut 
account to test their processes which he still believes to be insufficient. But as Im satisfied 
the accounts were correctly opened, I dont think Revolut could have prevented Mr Ds loss 
in this way.
The majority of Mr Ds loss was paid into account A in June and July 2019 this represented 
around €240,000 spread across around 20 payments most of which were for €12,000. Ive 
carefully looked at the account activity on account A. Given the type of account and its 
expected use, there isnt anything either before or after Mr Ds payments into the account 
that makes me think Revolut ought to have intervened or should have done more. Im 
satisfied that there was no activity that I think would have reasonably stood out as unusual or 
suspicious. As such there was no reason for Revolut to intervene in the operation of that 
account. 
Also by the time Revolut were on notice that Mr Ds payments had been made as a result of 
a scam, the vast majority of his money had already been withdrawn or spent. I note that a 
nominal amount of around £30 was recovered from account A and returned to Mr D, but I 
dont think Revolut reasonably ought to have recovered more. 
Mr D also paid £18,950 into account B on 22 July 2019. Account B had been relatively 
recently opened and there was some activity on that account which I think ought to have 
prompted Revolut to have asked some questions of its customer. Newly opened accounts 
present a greater risk of misuse compared to established accounts. Ultimately, I think this 
would have put Revolut on the path to discovery that the activity on the account might be the 
misappropriation of funds. Had Revolut blocked the account and investigated as I think they 
should have done, I think its most likely Mr Ds payments of 22 July and the loss associated 
with them would have been prevented. 
Revolut accepted our investigators view in this regard. But Mr D still disputes this. He thinks 
that Revolut ought to have been more concerned with account A and the significant sums 
involved there. I can quite understand Mr Ds disappointment, but it is only fair for me to 
direct Revolut to make a payment, if I think they reasonably caused the loss (or part of it). 
And beyond the award Im making, I dont think Revolut are responsible for the outstanding 
amount. 
As Im directing that all the funds Mr D paid into account B are reimbursed to him, I dont 
need to consider Revoluts efforts at recovery from that account once made aware of the 
scam to decide this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Revolut Ltd must:
Pay Mr D £18,950  but they may reduce this by the amount of any funds (if any) 
already recovered and returned to Mr D from account B. 
Pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount between 22 July 2019 and the date 
of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman