DRN-1163832
 
Complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank plc gave him incorrect information about the balance in his 
account. He says that he has suffered loss as a result of this incorrect information but that he 
hasnt been properly compensated.
Background
Mr H has a current account with Lloyds. He visited one of its branches and enquired about 
the balance in his account. He asked if an amount had been debited from the account in 
respect of oil that he had purchased. He was told that it had been. Mr H says that as a result 
of this information he decided that he could afford to go on a two day training course abroad. 
Mr H subsequently found out that the information hed been given was incorrect. He 
complained to Lloyds. It accepted that he had been given incorrect information and offered 
him £150 by way of compensation. Mr H says this is not enough and he wants Lloyds to give 
him either the cost of the training course and the expenses of the trip abroad or the price of 
the oil which Lloyds told him had already been debited from his account. Lloyds disagreed. It 
said that the amount of compensation it had offered him was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H was dissatisfied with the response from Lloyds and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said that because Mr H had had the 
benefit of both the oil and the training course it wouldnt be fair to give him that money back. 
She said that he couldnt benefit twice from Lloyds error. In the circumstances, her view was 
that the compensation hed been offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint for mainly the same reasons as our investigator.
Lloyds has accepted that Mr H was given incorrect information. So, in circumstances such 
as this I have to consider what I would expect Lloyds to do to put things right. When 
considering what is fair and reasonable I have to think about any loss Mr H has suffered as a 
result of relying on the incorrect information.
He says that it was only because of the information he was given that he decided to go on 
the training course abroad. He says that he thought this course would be useful to him as he 
tried to find employment. I can also see that hed already decided to go on a five day course 
with the same organisation. Ive thought about what Mr H has said here. I agree with our 
investigator that hes had the benefit of the training course. Its also the case that Mr H did 
have sufficient funds in his account, even if hed been given the correct information, to attend 
the training course. So, because hes had the benefit of the training course, I dont agree that it would be fair and reasonable to give him compensation equal to the cost that he incurred 
when he attended the training course.
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said about compensation equal to the amount by 
which his balance was overstated. Again, I can see that he had the benefit of the oil that hed 
purchased. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to compensate him by an 
amount equal to the value of the oil. When considering awards for trouble and upset these 
are intended to recognise the impact an error has had. They are not intended to punish the 
business. 
I can see that Mr H wouldve had to make adjustments to his budgeting as a result of the 
incorrect information that he got. But I agree with our investigator that £150, which Lloyds 
offered and paid, is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact that this had on his 
decision making. So I dont require Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14th May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman