DRN-1819175
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr S entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
day after he took possession of the car the engine management light illuminated on the 
dashboard and a digital alert appeared stating Check AdBlue according to the owners 
manual. A second digital message warned that the cars engine would not start after 500 
miles. Mr S took photos of what the dashboard was showing and sent them to the 
dealership.
The dealership asked Mr S to take the car in for it to be checked. The car was kept by the 
dealership for 18 days as it was found that the car required a new AdBlue tank to be fitted. 
The dealership reported to Mr S that the first tank it fitted was found to have a hairline crack 
and so was leaking. It then reported an issue with the AdBlue sensor and the tank needing 
coding because it was a new part. The dealership then informed Mr S that it had arranged 
for the cars manufacturer trained technicians to complete the repairs. The car was returned 
to Mr S once the repairs had been completed.
Mr S says a similar AdBlue warning illuminated on the dashboard a few days after the car 
was returned. The dealership asked him to return the car so it could investigate. Mr S asked 
the dealership for the repair invoices for the AdBlue tank, but the dealership informed him 
this wasnt possible as the repairs had been done business to business. He says he was 
advised by the dealership that, as the car had had a new Ad Blue tank fitted, the light hadnt 
illuminated due to any fault, but was due to a glitch. As the warning light didnt then come 
back on Mr S says he accepted the explanation he had been given and continued to use the 
car.
In July 2019, Mr S took the car to Europe for a family holiday. Mr S experienced problems 
with the car and it warned that fluid levels couldnt be measured, and that the engine would 
fail after a certain number of miles. As Mr S didnt have European breakdown cover, he 
contacted the cars manufacturer emergency service. It arranged for the car to be taken to a 
garage for investigation. 
Mr S explained to the technician that the car had a new AdBlue tank fitted and, after an 
inspection, he was told the AdBlue sensors needed replacing. Mr S paid for these repairs so 
he could get home.
In August 2019 the car was involved in an accident and it was arranged for it to go to a 
manufacturer approved garage for repairs. When the car was stripped the garage contacted 
Mr S and said that, in its opinion, the AdBlue tank needed replacing. It provided Mr S with 
photos and said in their opinion the tank hadnt been replaced with a new one but looked as 
though an old one had been patched up with adhesive. It said the tank had been leaking.
Mr S complained to the dealership about the repair it had carried out but received no 
response. He then complained to MotoNovo. He explained that the car was stripped down in 
a garage and needed a new AdBlue tank, but that the dealership had told him a new one 
had been fitted earlier in February/March of 2019.
MotoNovo said that his complaint would need to be investigated and that a specialist would 
be assigned to investigate. He was advised this would take 11 days. Mr S said that the car 
couldnt remain in its stripped-down state in the current garage and the agent for MotoNovo 
said they couldnt provide advice as to his next steps. 
Mr S decided to authorise the repair to the AdBlue tank with the garage and collected his 
car. He then received a letter from MotoNovo, dated a few days before, telling him he must 
not have any repairs carried out on the car without its authorisation.
MotoNovo said that as the car had now been repaired it wasnt able to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint as it wasnt able to investigate whether the car had a fault.
Mr S disagreed with MotoNovos decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think MotoNovos 
response that it had no way of knowing whether the issue with the car had been present or 
developing at the point of sale was a reasonable one.
Our investigator said he thought the evidence was clear there had been an issue with the Ad 
Blue tank shortly after Mr S had acquired the car. This had been repaired by the dealership, 
but the evidence provided by the second garage showed that this tank was still leaking and 
hadnt been replaced despite what the dealership had said.
The invoice from the European garage was for issues arising from the Ad Blue tank and our 
investigator said he was satisfied these were linked to the poor repair by the dealership
Our investigator said that it would be fair for MotoNovo to reimburse Mr S the cost of the 
repairs that were carried out in Europe, and the costs of the repairs carried out in September 
2019, together with interest. He also said that MotoNovo should pay Mr S £100 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal with the faulty car.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators opinion. It said it had only become aware of the 
repairs carried out in Europe in July 2019, when Mr S had made his complaint to it in 
September 2019. It said there wasnt any evidence that these repairs were linked to those 
carried out by the dealership and to find it liable for the costs was unfair.
MotoNovo said that due to the unauthorised repairs in September 2019 it was now 
impossible to establish whether previous repairs had been unsuccessful or not. It said Mr S 
had been told not to have the car repaired and, if he was going to struggle to be without a 
car, he should have raised that with it for it to provide some assistance.
MotoNovo also queried the content of the emails Mr S had produced of the contact he had 
had with the dealership when the car had been repaired in February/March 2019.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Looking at the emails sent between Mr S and the dealership, over the Ad Blue warning light 
in February and March 2019, Im satisfied that the car had a fault and the dealership agreed 
to repair it. I think Mr Ss evidence about the events of the repairs undertaken by the 
dealership are accurate. Ive seen that the dealership hasnt provided any evidence that 
would contradict what Mr S says.
   
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr S is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied  term  that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here  the car wasnt  brand  new and so wouldnt  be judged  by the same  standard  as a 
new one, but Ive seen  that an issue  with the Ad Blue tank arose  almost  immediately  
after Mr S acquired  the car. I dont think a reasonable  person  would  expect  the car to 
have  developed  a fault within  such  a short  period  of time.  I think  its more  likley  than 
not this fault was present  at the point  of sale since  Mr S had barely  had an 
opportunity  to use the car. Im satsified  the car wasnt  of satsifactory  quality  at the 
point  of sale.
The dealership  informed  Mr S that it had replaced  the Ad Blue tank with a new one, 
but there  were  also issues  with the sensors  that had then required  coding.  I think  it 
would  be fair to say the car had undertaken  quite  a significant  repair.
Ive seen  that the car then broke  down  when  Mr S was on hoilday  abroad.  There  is a 
substantial  35 page  diagnostic  report  provided  from the garage  that repaired  the car, 
which  was a manufacturer  approved  garage.  While  I accept  the report  is not 
produced  in English  it is clear  that an Ad Blue fault code  had shown  and that there  
were  issues  with the NOX  sensor.  And I think  that a reasonable  person  would  
consider  that these  issues  with the car were,  more  likley  than not, linked  to the earlier  
fault and repairs  to the AdBlue  tank.
MotoNovo  says  it has only recently  become  aware  of the repairs  that were  carried  
out in Europe  to the car, and so it is unfair  to make  it liable  for those  costs.  But I dont  
think  Mr S acted  unreasonably  in not raising  this issue  sooner.  He had believed  the 
dealership  had carried  out competent  repairs  to the car and replaced  the Ad Blue 
tank,  and it was only when  the second  garage  in the UK provided  photos  of what  it 
had found  when  stripping  the car, and said in its opinion  no new tank had been  fitted,  
that he complained  about  the car breaking  down  abroad.
I also dont  think  it likely  that the manufacturer  approved  garage  in Europe  replaced  
the Ad Blue tank fitted  by the dealership.  The European  garage  had supplied  a 
detailed  report  on what  was repaired  and what  was found.  I have  no invoice  or report  from the dealership.  So, I dont  think  I can reasonably  say the repairs  carried  out in 
European  are the cause  of the fault found  with the car in September  2019.
MotoNovo  says  that by Mr S having  the car repaired  in September  2019,  expressly  
agianst  its authorisation,  an investigation  as to the faults  with the car is now 
impossible.  However,  Ive seen  Mr S wasnt  told not to have  the work  undertaken  
until after the car had been  returned  to him. He had sought  advice  from MotoNovo  as 
to what  he should  do, and explained  his difficulties  about  the car already  being  in a 
strippped  down  state  at the garage,  but MotoNovo  didnt  provide  an answer  until it 
was too late.
I also disagree  that an investigation  couldnt  be conducted  in these  circumstances,  
as MotoNovo  was provided  with a number  of photos  showing  what  the garage  had 
found,  and it could  have  requested  evidence  from the dealership.
I think  in these  particular  circumstances  Mr S didnt  act unreasonably  in agreeing  to 
have  the car repaired  by the second  garage.  As MotoNovo  declined  the opportunity  
to obtain  its own quotes  as to the cost of the repair  to the Ad Blue tank I think  its fair 
to consider  it to have  been  reasonable.
So, on the evidence  Ive seen,  I think  the car wasnt  of satsisfactory  quality  at the 
point  of sale and that the dealership  had an opporuntity  to repair  it, but didnt  do so 
adequately.  This has resulted  in a breakdown  in July,  and further  repairs  and a new 
Ad Blue tank being  required  in September  2019.  I understand  the car is now 
repaired.
For the reasons  give above  Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint.  
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Reimburse Mr S EUR 1654.75 as per the invoice dated July 2019 being the cost of 
the repairs carried out in Europe. The exchange rate to be used for the repayment is 
as was applicable at the date of repair. Interest is to be added to that amount at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr S £993.66 as per the invoice dated September 2019 being the cost of 
the repairs to the Ad Blue tank carried out by the second garage. Interest at the 
yearly rate of 8% is to be added to that amount from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to 
deal with the faulty car.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to do the following.
Reimburse Mr S EUR 1654.75 as per the invoice dated July 2019 being the cost of 
the repairs carried out in Europe. The exchange rate to be used for the repayment is as was applicable at the date of repair. Interest is to be added to that amount at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr S £993.66 as per the invoice dated September 2019 being the cost of 
the repairs to the Ad Blue tank carried out by the second garage. Interest at the 
yearly rate of 8% is to be added to that amount from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to 
deal with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman