DRN-4382188
The complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered him for the 
total loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. The car was 
deemed to be beyond economical repair. UKI offered Mr W £41,239, less the policy excess, 
in settlement of his claim. But Mr W was unhappy with this and with the level of service he 
received. He thought he couldnt replace his car for this amount. He thought it would cost 
between £6,000 and £7,000 more to replace his car. He was also unhappy that personal 
belongings had been removed from the car. These included precious mementos of his late 
daughter. 
UKI paid Mr W £242 compensation for the value of items that could be repurchased. And 
UKI agreed there had been service failings and that the loss of his daughters mementos had 
caused him considerable distress. UKI paid Mr W £450 compensation for this. But Mr W 
didnt think this was sufficient compensation for the personal value of the lost items.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had reasonably based its settlement for the cars market value on the motor trade guides we 
use and on market research. She thought its offer was the highest of the valuations it had 
found. She couldnt put a price on the value of Mr Ws precious mementos of his daughter. 
But she thought UKIs offer was in keeping with our approach. So she thought the settlement 
and UKIs payment of compensation for its service failings and the loss of Mr Ws personal 
items was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W replied that he accepted the valuation. But he thought that UKI should pay him nearer 
£5,000 compensation for the loss of the mementos of his daughter to buy a memorial for her. 
He said this matter had caused him considerable distress and grief. Mr W asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Ws loss. I can understand that losing such personal 
mementos of his daughter must be very distressing for him. And I can understand that he 
wants to put any compensation towards a permanent memorial to her. 
I can also understand that Mr W wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said that 
UKIs offer didnt restore his position as he would need £6,000 to £7,000 more to replace his 
car with a similar one. 
Mr Ws policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. I can see that 
this is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In most cases, we 
assess the market value as the price which the consumer would have had to pay for a 
comparable vehicle across the various markets, immediately before the time of the damage 
or loss. 
This could be slightly less than advertised retail prices, although this will depend on the most 
likely market for the particular age and model of vehicle. Because of recent changes in the 
market, we are increasingly hearing of cars selling either for or close to their advertised 
price. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports, advertised prices and independent 
valuations.
Our Investigator thought UKIs settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she reviewed UKIs valuations, and she 
looked in the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
condition and optional extras as Mr Ws car at the date of its loss. 
Given the current challenges in the used car market the motor valuation guides have a wider 
range of values then we have seen previously. And we think going by the highest will ensure 
consumers have received a fair offer, allowing them to replace their car with one of the same 
make, model and specification. So we now expect insurers to pay the highest of the trade 
guides, unless they are able to provide us with evidence which supports a lower valuation. 
UKI had provided a valuation of £41,239 based on an advertised price. This was higher than 
the valuations provided by the two guides it checked. This took into account the cars lower 
than average mileage. And this was slightly lower than the two valuations found by the 
Investigator, but higher than the average of all four valuations.  
Our Investigator also undertook market research, albeit at a later date. And I think this 
showed that UKIs offer was in keeping with the range of the advertised prices for similar 
cars. So I think UKI has provided reasonable evidence to support its slightly lower valuation 
made at the date of loss. And so I agree that UKIs offer was fair and reasonable as it was 
made in keeping with our approach and the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it to 
increase this. 
UKI agreed that its level of service had been wanting. And I can see that Mr W spent long 
periods being kept on hold, he was wrongly told his car could be repaired, and his personal 
belongings were lost. UKI paid Mr W £242 compensation for items that could be replaced, 
which I think is fair and reasonable. And I have seen that UKI searched the garages where 
Mr Ws car had been stored to try and locate the missing items, but without success. So its 
unable to return his precious mementos of his daughter. 
UKI paid Mr W £450 compensation for this trouble and upset. I can understand that this 
wont replace the loss Mr W has experienced. But I think its in keeping with our published 
guidance where the impact of an error has been considerable. And so Im satisfied that UKIs 
compensation was fair and reasonable, and I dont require it to increase this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman