DRN-1700120
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mr and Mrs D made to Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. Mr and Mrs D say the application was unduly delayed when a query arose over the 
title to the property. Barclays has offered compensation and an apology but Mr and Mrs D 
dont think its enough.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Barclays has acknowledged it could have resolved things a little more quickly, and accepts 
Mr and Mrs D were put to some inconvenience and quite a lot of stress. What I have to 
decide is if its offer of compensation is enough. Id start by saying that a refund of the 
product fee (£999) Mr and Mrs D paid for the mortgage isnt an appropriate reference point. 
The fee was part of the pricing of the mortgage; Mr and Mrs D have the mortgage so theyve 
received what the fee paid for.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application (or an amendment thereto) 
might take, but occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Barclays to pay 
Mr and Mrs D the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Barclays unduly 
and excessively delayed the transaction by way of specific errors or omissions.
Looking at the overall progression of the case, I dont find that this is such a case. Its one 
where the normal flow of the mortgage application was extended slightly whilst matters 
arising were dealt with. I appreciate Mr and Mrs D would have preferred it if Barclays had 
dealt with those matters more quickly than it did, but in the broader scheme, I dont consider 
that the test I mentioned in the preceding paragraph has been met.
I think its important to put some context in here. This transaction was obviously of 
paramount importance to Mr and Mrs D, but it was only one of many that Barclays would 
have had on desk to deal with. Every one of those transactions would have been just as 
important to the people involved in them as Mr and Mrs Ds transaction was to them. Its no 
easy matter for a business to prioritise tasks in way that satisfies everyone at the same as 
maintaining fairness to all.
When youre as close to a situation as Mr and Mrs D have been here, its natural and 
understandable to see things solely on ones own terms. Taking a step back, as I must do, 
and looking at things impartially, I consider that the £350 compensation that Barclays has 
offered Mr and Mrs D is a fair settlement, given the overall circumstances and taking into 
account the general level of awards that we make in broadly similar instances. If no 
compensation had been offered, I would not award more.
Lastly, on the question of an apology, Barclays final response referred to the compensation 
offer as a way of saying sorry. That too, in my view, is sufficient. In any event, I would not 
generally order a business to apologise to a consumer, as an apology given under duress 
has no value.
Mr and Mrs D dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ds right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Barclays Bank UK PLC. I leave it to Mr and Mrs D to decide if 
they want to accept Barclays offer. They can do that by contacting the business directly.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman