DRN-4299215
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund transactions on his current 
account that he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
At the start of January 2023, Mr S contacted Monzo and disputed all the transactions to a 
gambling site which were made using his Monzo debit card on 30 and 31 December 2022. 
14 transactions totalling approximately £1,300 were made over the two-day period. 
Mr S said he didnt make any of them. He told Monzo hed been taken ill around that time 
and needed to go to hospital, and someone had taken his phone, card and wallet and made 
the transactions without his knowledge. Mr S had shared the PIN for his phone  the same 
PIN he used to access the Monzo app  with an individual so they could notify his family of 
his whereabouts. He suspects this individual made the disputed transactions.
Monzo investigated Mr Ss claim and declined to refund the transactions  it considered that 
hed likely authorised the disputed transactions. But it accepted there were service issues 
and paid £70 compensation in recognition of this.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. In summary, they concluded that Mr S had 
failed with gross negligence in complying with the terms and conditions of the account and 
keeping his personalised security details safe. They also noted there were discrepancies in 
his testimony. The investigator also thought the amount of compensation Monzo had paid 
Mr S was a fair reflection of the impact of its errors on him.
Mr S didnt agree, and the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision in June 2023. I said that I intended reaching the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator but for different reasons. 
I invited further comments from both parties. Monzo replied and said it didnt have anything 
further to add. Mr S asked for additional time to respond, and I agreed to extend the deadline 
after considering his reasons for the request. The deadline has since passed but we havent 
heard from Mr S. Im satisfied its now appropriate for me to progress matters. So, what 
follows is my provisional decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that although Ive only given an overview of what happened, 
Ive read and considered everything weve been provided in its entirety.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised the transactions himself. 
In this case, its not in dispute that Mr Ss personalised credentials were used to make the 
disputed transactions. The technical data Monzo has provided shows that his card details 
(card number and CVV code) were used, and the transactions were approved through the 
Monzo app on his phone. So, the payment transactions were authenticated correctly. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that authentication isnt, on its own, enough for 
Monzo to hold him liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
Mr S, or someone acting with his authority, consented to the transactions being made.
To decide whether Mr S  or someone acting with his authority  made the transactions, Ive 
carefully considered what hes told us about what happened. And Ive considered that in 
conjunction with a review of the available evidence.
Mr S has said he needed to go to the hospital around the relevant period and at the time he 
shared his phones PIN with someone who was assisting him. Because the PIN used to 
access the Monzo app on his phone was the same as his phones PIN, he believes that is 
how the individual (who had taken possession of his phone, wallet and card) was able to 
access the Monzo app to approve the transactions they made. 
The transaction audit trail Ive seen shows that on 30 December, there were a number of 
transactions in between the ones to the gambling site. These include a faster payment, an 
ATM withdrawal, an online payment approved through the Monzo app, as well as a Chip and 
Pin-authenticated card payment. The faster payment went to an individual Mr S has made 
payments to frequently. And the merchants involved in the card payments have also been 
paid before and since the relevant period on an ad-hoc basis, meaning they dont appear to 
be recurring transactions. 
At the time of investigating the claim, Monzo asked Mr S if there were transactions apart 
from the ones to the gambling site that he didnt recognise, and he said there werent any. In 
his complaint submission to our service earlier this year, Mr S sent a screenshot of his 
statement for the relevant period and the transactions Ive mentioned were redacted. Based 
on the above, Im satisfied that these transactions were made by Mr S. And as these 
transactions were authorised between the disputed ones to the gambling site, Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ss card and his phone  which was used for some of the payments  
were not in his possession as he recalls. 
Whats more, on 30 December, in between the disputed and authorised transactions, Monzo 
also received a PIN recovery request from Mr S. This required him to complete a video 
verification in addition to submitting his ID document. Not only did this process require Mr S 
to have log on to his Monzo app on his phone, but he was also required to upload a short 
self-recorded video of himself. The information Ive seen shows that the app was accessed 
on his phone, it was from the usual IP address, and a self-recorded video was uploaded.  
Given my observations, I think its more likely than not that Mr Ss phone and his card were 
in his possession at the time of the disputed transactions. And it seems more likely that 
these were made by Mr S or someone with this authority. That means I dont consider 
Monzo has been unreasonable in holding him liable.Mr S submits that the gambling site told him it doesnt have an account in his name. 
I understand that the parent company operates under several brands. So, theres a 
possibility that an account in Mr Ss name exists under a different brand. But even if that isnt 
the case, my consideration here is whether I think its more likely than not that the payments 
were authorised by Mr S, not whether the funds were loaded on to an account in his name. 
Mr S also claims that hes been advised by the gambling site that his bank presented a 
chargeback, and that it was successful. But Monzo has provided evidence to show that no 
chargebacks were raised in connection to the payments. I wont be able to comment any 
further on why Mr S was told otherwise by the third party. But Im satisfied Monzo didnt 
present a chargeback.
Ive also considered Mr Ss concerns about the poor customer service he received from 
Monzo. Given the serious nature of Mr Ss claim  fraud had been committed  it is 
understandable why Monzo needed time to investigate his concerns. But it has already 
acknowledged that Mr S waited far longer than it would have liked to report the matter 
initially. It has also accepted that one of the agents spoke to Mr S in a manner that fell below 
its standards. To recognise these mistakes, Monzo has paid £70 compensation. I know Mr S 
feels very strongly about Monzos service failures. But looking at the circumstances of this 
complaint, I find the compensation amount that Monzo has paid in recognition of its errors is 
fair. So, I dont plan on asking it to increase it. 
In summary, I recognise that Mr S will likely be disappointed with this outcome. But as I cant 
safely conclude that Monzo has been unreasonable in holding him liable for the disputed 
transactions, and I find that its already offered fair compensation for the service issues, 
I wont be requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman