DRN-2310911
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has unfairly registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs H says she set up a repayment plan in 2019 with Sainsburys but later found out it had 
registered a default on her credit file. She says Sainsburys sent letters to an incorrect 
address and that she didnt receive the Notice of Default letter sent to her in June 2019. Mrs 
H says she doesnt want compensation but would like the default removed.
Sainsburys accepts it sent a letter to the wrong address but says the default notice letter 
was sent to the correct address on 21 June 2019. It also says it sent numerous letters to Mrs 
H about the account arrears and has a duty to accurately report account positions to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator initially upheld it on the basis that 
letters had been sent to the wrong address and if Mrs H had known about the risk of a 
default, she would have done something about it. The investigator then reconsidered her 
view as Sainsburys provided a copy of the default letter that was correctly sent to her. And 
thought Mrs H would have been aware that she needed to bring the account up to date to 
avoid a default. The investigator recommended Sainsburys pay £100 compensation for the 
address mistake, which its agreed to do.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and says she didnt receive the default letter of 21 June 2019 
and would not have ignored it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys didnt make a mistake in 
registering a default on Mrs Hs credit file. I realise Mrs H will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at Sainsburys records and Mrs Hs credit card statements. And I can see that 
Mrs Hs account had been in arrears in 2018 and in 2019, and that in March 2019 Mrs H 
spoke to Sainsburys about her account and financial difficulties. Having listened to that call 
Im satisfied Mrs H knew she had reached her credit limit and knew there had been a 
number of missed payments. I think she was given various options by Sainsburys but 
choose to keep the account open to try and reduce the balance. Im satisfied Sainsburys 
told Mrs H that she must make the required payments and if not, the account may default. 
So, I think by March 2019 Mrs H ought reasonably to have been aware of what would 
happen if she didnt make regular required payments.
I can see from Mrs Hs account statements, which I think were correctly addressed and 
received by her as she told Sainsbury she was receiving them during the March 2019 call, 
that she didnt make payments from at least May 2019 to July 2019. I think that those missed 
payments and the earlier missed payments meant that Sainsburys was reasonably entitled 
to conclude that the relationship between it and Mrs H had broken down and that the 
account ought to be defaulted.
I accept that a letter was sent to the wrong address by Sainsburys. I dont know why that 
was the case or if it was an address Mrs H had a connection to. But Im satisfied the Notice 
of Default was correctly addressed and sent to Mrs H. I also appreciate that Mrs H says she 
didnt receive that letter and wouldnt have ignored it. But I cant fairly hold Sainsburys 
responsible for that as it doesnt deliver the mail. In any event I find that Mrs H was told in 
March 2019 what would happen if she continued to miss payments and that she would have 
received monthly credit statements which recorded that she failed to make any payments for 
at least three consecutive months and warned her about the possibility of her account 
defaulting.
I dont think Mrs H would have been in a position to avoid the default even if she received 
the letter as I think it clear she had been unable to make the required payments for some 
time.
Overall, Im satisfied that Sainsburys is required to accurately report the position of its 
customers accounts to the CRAs. I have made clear that I think Mrs H was told on a 
number of occasions in different ways what would happen if she continued to miss required 
payments and so I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly or made a mistake by registering a 
default in these circumstances. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Sainsburys to pay Mrs H £100 compensation in respect of the address 
mistake which its fairly agreed to do but for the reasons I have explained I cant fairly order it 
to remove the default from Mrs Hs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay 
Mrs H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman