DRN-3471414
The complaint
Mr M complains that Wakam unfairly declined a claim he made on his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy underwritten by Wakam.
Mr M decided to sell his car and put an advert up online and was visited by two people at his 
home address who said they were interested in buying it. The visitors came and inspected 
the car and then left. Mr Ms car was then stolen later that evening and was never recovered. 
The two potential buyers can no longer be contacted.
Mr M claimed for the loss of his car from Wakam. But Wakam declined his claim. It said Mr 
Ms policy didnt cover him for any loss where possession was gain by means of deception. It 
said it thought the most likely way the car was stolen was by one of the two visitors switching 
one of the cars keys during their visit.
Mr M didnt agree with this. He said the two visitors only had the key for a few seconds and 
doesnt think they had time to swap it. Hes said Wakam cant prove this was how his car 
was stolen so doesnt think its fair it declines his claim.
Wakam didnt change its stance, so Mr M brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended Mr Ms complaint be upheld. She thought the car 
was most likely stolen by the two visitors pretending to buy Mr Ms car. And she thought it 
was likely the keys were switched. But she didnt think it was fair that Wakam decline the 
claim. She thought Mr M didnt hand over control of the vehicle and he wasnt deceived into 
handing over control of the car.
Wakam disagreed. It thinks its decision to decline the claim was fair and in line with Mr Ms
policy.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. That decision said that I was thinking of not 
upholding the complaint for the following reasons:
Wakam thinks the most likely way the car was stolen was by one of the two visitors 
switching the keys while they were looking at buying the car. Mr M says Wakam havent 
proved this, and in any event thinks its impossible. He says the only time the keys changed 
hands were in his house. He says only one key was ever given to one of the people who 
visited that day and says it was only in their possession for a matter of seconds.
To be clear, I cant say for certain how the car was stolen. No one can. It wasnt ever 
recovered. But based on all the evidence, I think it was most likely stolen by one or both of 
the two people who visited Mr M on the day his car was stolen.
I say this because Ive seen a detailed key report which states Mr Ms car cant be stolen by 
way of relay theft. It says one of the key fobs needs to be present in order for the car to start 
and drive. The report says that the two keys Mr M provided to Wakam after the theft are 
programmed to two different vehicles meaning that at least one of the provided keys 
wouldnt have worked on Mr Ms car. So, on this basis I think its most likely one of the keys 
was switched during that small window when one of the visitors asked for the key and had it 
in their possession  albeit only for a few seconds.
I appreciate Mr M doesnt think this is possible, but Im persuaded that switching the key 
could be done in a matter of seconds with sufficient sleight of hand. And Ive not been 
provided any other explanation of why the two keys Mr M provided would be coded to two 
different vehicles. As I consider this the most likely explanation for the keys provided to 
Wakam belonging to two different vehicles, I think its more likely than not that the people 
who stole Mr Ms car had experience in using this tactic, and went to visit Mr Ms car with the 
sole purpose of stealing it by obtaining a key and switching it with one that looked the same.
Mr Ms policy doesnt cover him for loss of his car where possession is obtained by 
misrepresentation or deception. And unlike our investigator, I think Wakams decision to 
decline Mr Ms claim by relying on this term is fair and reasonable.
Im satisfied that based on the most likely explanation for the keys belonging to different 
vehicles that Mr Ms car was stolen by the two visitors pretending to be interested in 
purchasing it. That in itself is a deception, but I dont think that deception alone was pivotal to 
the theft on Mr Ms car. I think the important deception was the one used to deceive Mr M 
into giving the thief his key, swap it and then give him back a different key. Mr M was 
essentially tricked  or deceived - into giving the thief the key in the first instance as it was 
done under false pretence. And then he was subsequently tricked  or deceived  into 
thinking hed received his own key back, when in all likelihood hed been given a key that 
looked the same but was programmed to a completely different car.
I appreciate this puts Mr M in a very difficult position. But, Wakam are entitled to decide what 
risks they want to cover and what risks they dont as long as this is clearly set out in the 
policy. I think the term relied on in this case is clearly set out. So, Im satisfied Wakams 
decision to decline Mr Ms claim is fair and reasonable based on the terms of his policy and 
the circumstances of the theft.
Mr M understandably didnt agree with my findings. In summary he said:
Id not considered our investigators findings which had twice upheld his complaint; 
nor is this decision in line with other ombudsmens decisions on similar cases
There were other ways the car could have been stolen such as being lifted on to a 
truck or towed; and that there were other possible explanations for the keys being 
programmed to two different vehicles; and that the spare key was never used and 
remained in a folder until provided to Wakam
He took all reasonable steps to avoid the car being stolen  e.g. he didnt let the 
visitors test drive the car or leave them alone with the keys
It isnt clear what is covered by the theft by deception clause
He wasnt deceived at the time of the theft - the theft happened hours after the two 
visitors left
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains unchanged. I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on 
this case. And I understand my decision puts him in a difficult position financially. Ill explain 
my reasoning.
I have considered our investigators thoughts on the matter. But those are just that, our 
investigators thoughts. Neither Mr M, nor Wakam nor I are bound by those thoughts. The 
purpose of an ombudsmans decision is to take another look at the complaint, independent 
of the investigators findings. Ive also considered other previous decisions, but while we 
have approaches on certain issues, each case revolves on its own merits.
I agree with Mr M that there are other explanations for the two keys provided being 
programmed to two different vehicles. But I think the most likely way the car was stolen was 
by the two visitors based on the information in the key report and the investigation 
statement. The investigation statement says Mr M had both the keys with him when the two 
people came to look at his car, theres no mention of him never using the spare key  this is 
in contrast to Mr Ms latest version of event in which hes said the spare key was in a folder 
with other documents and not used until it was sent off to Wakam to validate the claim. Im 
more persuaded by that first statement. Had Mr M not used the spare key at all, Id have 
expected that point to have been made to Wakam and us much earlier in the process.
I also agree there are other ways to steal a car that cant be stolen by relay theft.  But towing 
or lifting a car on to a truck would likely have drawn more attention. So, based on the 
available evidence, including that the two visitors stopped being contactable after the theft, 
and that this method of theft isnt entirely uncommon, I think the most likely method of theft 
was the switching of one of the keys by one of the people who came to visit Mr Ms car.
I note too that Mr M says he took all reasonable steps. Thats not in question. Wakam 
declined the claim based on a specific clause in the policy, they didnt say Mr M failed to take 
reasonable care.
I appreciate too Mr Ms points about Wakam not being clear what it means by theft by 
deception. But I dont think its reasonable to require Wakam to detail every method of 
deception it can think of in the policy document.
Ive also considered Mr Ms point that even if he accepted the keys were switched  which it 
should be clearly noted he doesnt  this means he wasnt deceived at the time of the theft. 
So, he doesnt think its fair the term is applied. But Im satisfied it is fair for Wakam to apply 
the term in these circumstances. As set out, I think the keys were most likely switched by 
one of the people alleging to be interested in buying Mr Ms car. And I consider that to be a 
deliberate act of deception, with the sole aim of gaining possession of Mr Ms key, and by 
proxy, his car. And while I accept completely that it wasnt Mr Ms intention, I think he did 
give away control of his vehicle  he was deceived into doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman