DRN-2630611
The complaint
Ms C says Russell Gibson Financial Management Limited (Russell Gibson) did, in the main, 
as follows:
Recommended, in 2015, her unsuitable investment of £96,000 into a set of four 
Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) funds operated by Oxford Capital (OC). The 
EIS funds were too risky for her, they mismatched her relative investment 
inexperience and they consumed a disproportionately high percentage (over 30%) of 
her liquid assets. [issue 1]
Failed to monitor and audit the EIS funds performances and OCs management of 
them; failed to adequately investigate her complaint; and failed to follow-up her case 
with OC. [issue 2]
Failed to meet General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) deadlines for disclosure 
of documents related to her case. [issue 3]
What happened
Recommendation of the EIS funds
Evidence and information on the recommendation of the EIS funds to Ms C (and on the 
investment that followed) include the following:
A pension planning and fact find document prepared by Russell Gibson for Ms C, 
dated 16 September 2015, which recorded information on her profile. This included 
information that she was single without dependents; that she was self-employed with 
net total annual disposable income of £22,700, total illiquid assets (excluding her 
residential home but including her corporate cash assets) valued at around 
£600,000, total liquid assets valued at £192,000 (including £120,000 in cash) and no 
liabilities; and that she had a potential inheritance tax (IHT) liability of around 
£330,000.
A comparable Financial Review Form, also dated 16 September 2015, completed by 
Russell Gibson for Ms C. This document has an additional/update note at its end, 
dated November 2015, which contains a distilled version of Russell Gibsons 
recommendation of the OC EIS funds.
A suitability letter from Russell Gibson sent to Ms C on 16 November 2015, with 
details of and related to its recommendation of the OC EIS funds. Its contents mainly 
referred to her profile and to her objectives to run her corporate and personal 
finances in a manner that minimised tax leakage and to have her financial affairs 
reviewed in order to be  as tax efficient as possible  (including reference to an 
excess corporate cash holding of around £400,000 from which she wanted to release 
around £120,000 for tax relief investments); referred to her reasonable knowledge 
of, and experience in, investments; repeated a number of EIS related high risk 
warnings throughout the document and referred to an illiquidity high risk warning; 
referred to her moderate attitude to risk (ATR) for her future pension and investment 
portfolios and to her agreement to depart from that and to adopt a speculative ATR 
for the higher risks (including the risk of loss of capital) in EIS funds; referred to an 
attached and signed ATR selection document in which Speculative (ranked 8 on a 
scale of 0 to 10) was selected; referred to her having the capacity for loss to match 
the speculative ATR; presented Russell Gibsons advice to Ms C to invest £96,000 
(described as 12% of her total net worth minus the value of her home) in the OC EIS 
funds (funds described as being  slightly less risky than other investments of this 
type ); presented underlying information about the OC EIS funds; and, in an 
appendix, presented a summary about OC.
An undated Strategy Note for the investment that included background for Ms Cs 
profile alongside the specific potential tax reliefs to be achieved from the investment.
A 2015 version of an OC produced Information Memorandum document for its EIS 
funds.
Ms Cs account of events
Ms C does not dispute the tax relief objectives of her investment in the EIS funds. She says 
she was convinced to follow Russell Gibsons recommendation of the OC funds because 
she was repeatedly told they were fairly safe (because they were backed by real assets and 
a 15 years energy production contract(s) with the UK government), they were likely to retain 
their value and that they were even likely to make a small profit (based on their past 
performances) in addition to the tax relief benefits.
Ms C says she reluctantly proceeded with the investment, which went against her moderate 
ATR, and that her reluctance is reflected in a note on the ATR document she signed which 
said the Speculative ATR was for EIS INVESTMENTS ONLY. 
The investment was for a total term of four years. Ms C notes that for the first three years, up 
to October 2018, the financial reports she received consistently confirmed that her 
investment retained its value. She refers to notice from Russell Gibson, by telephone, on 7 
June 2019 which informed her there had been a potential capital loss of 92% in her 
investment, but which conflicted with valuation information she verified online on the same 
date showing full capital value. 
She then received a letter directly from OC (dated 30 May 2019) which shared the same 
news about capital loss. She says, between the letter and her telephone discussion, she was 
led to understand that the reasons included  unexpected changes in legislation, changes 
in the terms of the 15-year government contracts (National Grid contract)  inability to sell 
on the infrastructure built, etc. all of which had allegedly come to light in the previous 6 
months .
Later in June 2019 Ms C met twice with her Russell Gibson adviser and she has shared with 
this service voice recordings she made at both meetings. Russell Gibson objects, in 
principle, to the fact that the recordings were made secretly and without its consent, but it 
does not object [and it consents] to this service considering the recordings as evidence. Ms 
C says the recordings show what was discussed in terms of the capital loss event and show 
how the adviser tried to discourage her from complaining. She then complained in July 2019.
Russell Gibsons position
Russell Gibson mainly says as follows:Ms C and her accountant attended an EIS related presentation in 2015 and 
thereafter the accountant introduced her to Russell Gibson. Meetings between her 
and Russell Gibson then happened in September and November that year. Her 
objectives, its fact finding, its assessments and its recommendation are all as 
depicted in relevant documentation.
It notes her suspicion that prior knowledge of problems with the funds was concealed 
from her before the notice in June 2019. It was not aware of such problems and did 
not conceal such problems, and it has no reason to believe that the same does not 
apply to OC.
[In response to issue 1] The OC EIS funds were suitable for Ms C; they matched her 
tax relief related objectives; she wilfully agreed to the speculative ATR for the specific 
purpose of achieving her tax relief objectives and numerous warnings about the high 
risks inherent in EIS investments were given to her across the suitability letter and 
documentation related to the funds; she misrepresents the facts when she refers to 
being told the funds were fairly safe, what it said and meant was that the OC funds 
were mainly like all other EIS funds but not as risky as others (and the contents on 
pages 2 and 7 of the suitability letter reflected the same comment); this comment 
was reasonably based on the asset backed aspect of the funds and the National Grid 
contracts they were based on; she had the financial capacity to match the ATR; and 
the investment consumed only 12% of her total net adjusted wealth, which was within 
its regular 10-15% parameters for such circumstances.
[In response to issue 2] OC operated and managed the EIS funds, Russell Gibson 
did not; it conducted and applied due diligence at the outset by ensuring it did 
thorough research on OC and its EIS funds (including comprehensive specialist third 
party reports on OC and its funds and including due diligence meetings held directly 
with OC) and then it was thereafter obliged to periodically review suitability of the 
investment for Ms C, which it did; it was not obliged to monitor/track and audit the 
funds as Ms C has claimed; and it applied due process (with an outcome) to her 
complaint.
The Investigators view and Ms Cs response
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He reached this conclusion for reasons broadly similar to the points made by Russell 
Gibson. Ms C disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
retained her core claims and made the following additional main submissions:
Her case has not been adequately investigated, the investigators inexperience and 
the pressure caused by this services workload are likely to blame.
She has consulted three separate financial advisers to comment on her case and 
they all agree that her experience (and the similarities with other clients experiences) 
indicate that Russell Gibson engaged in inappropriate themed promotion and selling 
of the EIS funds to novice investors like her; and she considers this malpractice 
should warrant a formal investigation by the regulator. Her accountant, who 
introduced her to Russell Gibson, agrees with the indication of themed selling by 
Russell Gibson, as he has experienced the same approach from it in other cases. 
She has also had her case reviewed by an independent wealth manager who 
contends that Russell Gibson is culpable of poor practice and lazy work, and that her case features a lack of due diligence and lack of due customer care by Russell 
Gibson.
She was pressured into the investment in 2015, in an  invest now or miss out 
scenario portrayed to her by Russell Gibson and in the context of its 
misrepresentation of the investment. This point also applies to her signing of the Risk 
Waiver at the time.
Her investment should have been diversified between four or more EIS providers, as 
opposed to having OC as the sole provider.
Russell Gibson did not consider pensions investments as an alternative, they would 
have been much more tax efficient.
Russell Gibson understated the investment term to her, she has learnt that exit from 
EIS funds is more common after seven or eight years of investing  contrary to the 
four years term of her investment. She would not have invested if she was told of 
such a long investment term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
Overall, on balance and with due regard to available evidence, I am not persuaded that the 
EIS funds were unsuitable for Ms C and I am not persuaded that she was unduly pressured 
into investing in them. Her comments about Russell Gibsons wider practices towards other 
clients, about its alleged malpractices in her case and potentially in other cases, about the 
professional views on those practices and malpractices that she has obtained and about a 
need for investigation by the regulator are noted. However, these are matters of regulation 
and her point about an investigation by the regulator would suggest that Ms C agrees the 
same. This service is not the industry regulator, so these matters are beyond the remit of this 
decision. This decisions remit is to determine whether (or not), with reasons, her specific 
complaint issues are to be upheld.
The balance of evidence does not portray undue pressure upon Ms C in 2015. It is 
noteworthy that the overall fact-finding exercise in September that year happened two 
months before the formal recommendation report that was issued to her. The additional note 
in the Financial Review document includes the following statements:
[Ms C] is aware of the minimum 3 year holding period and signed the S/L accordingly on 
16/11/2015 after having some time to consider its implications. Both the investment period (4 
years) and affordability of this investment (funds already accumulated) are not an issue to 
the client.
We reviewed VCT as alternatives, but discounted due to the 5-year minimum holding period 
which is longer than is required for EIS investments, as well as the additional benefit of 
ancillary IHT protection via BPR qualifying assets.
The above is a quoted part of the distillation of Russell Gibsons recommendation I 
mentioned earlier, and it appears to reflect some of the considerations during the 2 months 
between fact-finding and final recommendation. In addition, the suitability letter of 16 November 2015 is dated over a week before the acquisition date for the EIS funds (25 
November 2015, as stated in the funds loss relief statements).
Overall, from fact-finding to acquisition and in between, Ms C had ample time and 
opportunity to consider the venture, and the existence of such time during the process does 
not suggest undue pressure. To the contrary, it suggests a relatively considered approach 
towards the investment. 
I should also note my observation, based on the evidence that I have seen and heard, that 
Ms C does not appear to have been an investor with vulnerability towards undue pressure. 
Instead she appears to have been a self-assured investor with a clear understanding of her 
objective and of the profile she was prepared to adopt in order to achieve it. This is 
illustrated, as an example, in the assessment of her ATR. Evidence shows that she was 
initially assessed, in general investment and pensions terms, as being on the adventurous 
side of a moderate ATR profile, but this appears to have been adjusted downwards to a 
solely moderate ATR upon her request; then, also upon her request (and with her signature 
in agreement), further adjustment was made in order to determine a separate and distinct 
speculative ATR for the sole purpose of the EIS venture (this qualification being explicitly 
hand written in the ATR document). 
This sort of approach towards risk is not unusual. Investors sometimes adopt different ATRs, 
and sometimes even different objectives, for their general investments and for their pensions 
arrangements. Within each area, objectives ranging from, but not limited to, growth and 
income to tax relief benefits and inheritance tax planning can produce different undertakings 
of risk levels. Ms C wilfully agreed to undertaking a speculative approach towards the high 
risk EIS investment, so evidence does not support her claim that the investment was too 
risky for her. 
Her selection of, and agreement with, this was also well informed. There are numerous 
warnings and descriptions of the high risks inherent in the EIS investment throughout the 
suitability letter and in the documentation for the OC funds. It is inconceivable that she was 
not aware  from these warnings and descriptions  of the high-risk nature of EIS 
investments.
I acknowledge the debate between both parties over Ms Cs allegation that Russell Gibson 
misrepresented the level of risks in the funds. Evidence supports Russell Gibsons side of 
the debate more than Ms Cs. Its reference(s) to the funds risk profile was done in relative 
terms. In other words, Ms C was expressly and repeatedly informed that the EIS funds were 
highly risky by nature, but because the OC funds, in particular, were asset backed and 
backed by a National Grid contract Russell Gibson considered them to be not as risky as 
other EIS funds in the same broad high-risk category. I consider this a reasonable context, 
with reasonable reasons, in which Russell Gibson made its comments to Ms C, and I have 
not seen evidence that those comments were intended to  or had the effect of  diluting the 
high-risk warnings she was given.
I have not seen evidence that Ms Cs financial capacity profile, as recorded and assessed by 
Russell Gibson, was disputed at the time. I consider evidence of its assessment to be 
reliable and that evidence shows that she had more than adequate capacity for loss in the 
EIS investment. This should not be mistaken for a suggestion that she did not care about 
potentially losing £96,000 or that such a loss would have made no impact upon her. I 
consider that neither was the case. I accept that she would have cared about such a 
potential loss and that such loss would have made an impact upon her. 
However, the point is that Ms C had sufficient and perhaps more than sufficient capacity to 
cope with such a loss. It is not disputed that she had a personal cash holding of £120,000 at the time of the investment and that she controlled an excess corporate cash holding of 
around £400,000 at the same time. These were uninvested amounts, part of which she 
wanted to use to pursue her tax efficiency objective. The combined cash holding total of 
around £520,000 (or around £424,000 after the EIS investment) serves as evidence of a 
healthy financial capacity for the potential loss of capital in a £96,000 investment. Supporting 
points are that this capital investment represented less than 20% of Ms Cs combined/total 
unused cash holding and that, by definition, this meant there was no opportunity cost of the 
capital investment (in the sense that the capital was neither liquidated from a pre-existing 
investment nor was it re-allocated from a different potential investment).
In terms of Ms Cs tax efficiency objective, it cannot reasonably be said that the 
recommendation of an EIS based investment was unsuitable. EIS investments are 
essentially dedicated towards the prospects of tax relief benefits for investors on the one 
hand and potential wider economic benefits on the other hand  the former being a form of 
incentive for investors to engage in a government scheme that hopes to achieve the latter. I 
am satisfied that recommendation of the EIS investment matched Ms Cs objective.
In this section, I have addressed key components of suitable investment advice  objective, 
ATR, financial circumstances and capacity for loss  and I have found none to indicate that 
recommendation of the EIS investment to Ms C was unsuitable. I accept that, in 2015, she 
does not appear to have had previous EIS investment experience or experience of high-risk 
investments. However, as addressed above, her venture into the EIS investment at the time 
was an isolated and somewhat one-off affair, one for which she wilfully took the informed 
decision to adopt an equally isolated high-risk approach. I do not consider this to have been 
unreasonable and in the absence of any meaningful indication of unsuitability I do not 
consider that Russell Gibson was wrong to have matched her instructions with 
recommendation of the EIS investment.
For the sake of completeness, I confirm that I considered the recordings submitted by Ms C 
in the course of determining issue 1. I did not find any of their contents, from conversations 
in 2019, relevant to determining suitability of the EIS investment in 2015. I did not find 
anything said by the adviser during the recordings to stand in dispute with the assessments 
made in 2015.
Issue 2
I agree with Ms Cs assertion that there was an attempt by the Russell Gibson adviser she 
spoke to (in 2019) to discourage her from pursuing a complaint. I am satisfied that the 
advisers attempt to do this can be heard within one of the secret recordings. Having noted 
this, it is equally the case that the advisers attempt does not appear to have hindered the 
complaint that Ms C submitted. His attempt clearly did not influence her, given that she 
proceeded with the complaint regardless, and Russell Gibsons mainly fact-based treatment 
of the complaint does not appear to have been affected by it. With no meaningful 
consequence of the attempt, I do not consider that it is a matter that warrants a [further] 
finding.
Complaint handling, on its own, is not a regulated activity so Russell Gibson could argue that 
this service lacks jurisdiction to address the complaint handling part of issue 2. I also 
recognise that Ms C could argue that the matter should be considered as one that is 
ancillary to the regulated service Russell Gibson provided to her. Overall, I consider it 
worthwhile to note as follows  Ms Cs complaint was made in July 2019 and a final 
response issued two months later in September 2019; that was not an unreasonable 
response time; she was clearly unhappy with the outcome but that does not mean the 
response did not address her complaint, it did and it did so meaningfully (with coheremt reasoning given for the outcomes presented) on issues 1 and 2 (other than complaint 
handling); and issue 3 was not a subject in her complaint of July 2019. 
There is no evidence that Russell Gibson was expressly or implicitly obliged to track/monitor 
and audit the ongoing performances of the EIS funds and/or OCs ongoing 
management/operation of the funds. It was reasonably entitled to rely upon the periodical 
reporting from OC and that reporting appears to have informed both Russell Gibson and Ms 
C in terms of progress of the investment. I understand Ms Cs suspicion that more must have 
been known about aspects within and related to the funds between 2018 and 2019 (or 
perhaps even earlier) than was made transparent to her. I also understand her query about 
how funds which were seemingly without a problem in October 2018 could end up losing 
potentially all or at least around 90% value eight months later. However, I have not seen 
evidence to establish, on balance, that Russell Gibson knew more about the funds than it 
shared with her at the time or that it concealed any loss that happened and multiplied during 
the relevant period.
This service has been given evidence of Russell Gibsons due diligence on OC and on OCs 
EIS funds and I am satisfied with their credibility and value. The specialist third party 
assessment of OC and of OCs funds that it commissioned produced a notably impressive 
report. Overall, I am not persuaded by Ms Cs suggestion, or argument, that there was a lack 
of due diligence on Russell Gibsons part.
Evidence of communications with Ms C at the time the potential loss was reported  and the 
secret recordings of her meetings with the adviser in June 2019  show that Russell Gibson 
made its effort to follow-up her case with OC, but it was not in a position to control 
discoveries in the matter or to resolve the matter for her. It appears to have shared with her 
as much as it knew about the problems with the funds at the time  as recounted by Ms C 
and as quoted above  and, notably, uncertainty over how the problems would be resolved 
was conveyed to her by the adviser during the meetings in June.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to uphold issue 2.
Issue 3
The GDPR breach allegation in this issue is one that Ms C should, primarily, consider 
referring to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if she wishes to.  It is the ICO that 
has requisite remit to address such a matter.
Ms Cs comments
I have addressed some of these comments above. With regards to those I have not 
addressed, I consider that:
Having gone through the investigators work on Ms Cs case I have not identified the 
flaws that Ms C claims. It is clear that he understood and summarised to the parties 
the issues in the complaint and that he gave the parties reasonable time and 
opportunity to present their cases and evidence. His findings were not arbitrary, they 
were supported by available evidence. Furthermore, he correctly approached the 
matter of the secret recordings sensitively and with fairness to both parties. Even if 
Ms C disagrees with these comments, it is a fact that I have reviewed her case 
afresh and reached conclusions that are not dissimilar to those of the investigator.
Ms Cs investment was diversified over four EIS funds in the energy sector. As stated 
above, EIS investments are inherently risky. On balance, I do not consider that 
investment in a different sector would have made a significant difference to her exposure to risk. The same applies to the notion of investing with different EIS 
providers.
Ms Cs argument, that a pensions-based solution to her tax efficiency objective would 
have been better for her, might or might not hold merit. Either way, I consider it 
somewhat irrelevant. The issue to determine has been whether (or not) Russell 
Gibsons recommendation of the EIS investment was suitable for her and this service 
has concluded, on balance, that it was suitable for her. If there is, or was, an 
alternative that would have been more suitable for her, that alone would not 
automatically render the EIS investment unsuitable. The regulatory duty that Russell 
Gibson had to discharge was to provide suitable investment advice  not to provide 
the most suitable investment advice.
The point about investment terms also seems somewhat irrelevant. I can understand 
that Ms C might have taken a different view on a recommendation that featured a 
seven years or eight years investment term  if she that was not what she wanted  
but this is hypothetical. The fact is that her investment ran into problems just before 
the end of its four years investment term and the problems do not appear to have 
been related to the idea of an insufficient investment term. She did not reach the 
point of seeking to withdraw her capital after completion of four years so, if the 
problems in 2019 did not happen, it is not known that completion of the four years 
investment term and/or subsequent capital liquidation would have been delayed; and 
even if such a delay(s) happened, it also remains unknown that it would have 
happened for a reason(s) that was foreseen by, or that should have been 
foreseeable to, Russell Gibson in 2015. As such, a claim for misrepresentation of the 
investment term in 2015 cannot competently be established with the available facts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman