DRN-4406699
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society approved and then unfairly declined her 
application for a consolidation loan after the contract was signed by both parties, in 
contravention of contract and finance law and the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules.
What happened
Nationwide said it rejected Mrs Fs application for a £10,000 loan for a number of reasons 
but mainly due to affordability and over indebtedness. It said her disposable income wasnt 
high enough to cover the new loan payments, and that, she was financially overextended 
having already taken out a £10,000 loan. 
Mrs F said membership and affordability criteria are on Nationwides website - a monthly 
income of £700 or more and a good credit history  and Nationwide confirmed she met the 
criteria. But her loan was refused, as only approved in principle pending further checks. Mrs 
F said Nationwide hadnt said approval was only in principle and although the contract says 
it may carry out credit checks, it didnt make clear that the loan could be denied after it was 
signed. She said the contract shows even after checks are carried out, the loan will be paid, 
and Nationwides suggestion otherwise is false and a breach of the rules. 
Mrs F said to carry out a creditworthiness assessment after the loan contract would amount 
to a breach of the FCA rules and be unfair. She said she was advised to read the pre-
contract information and on acceptance she was given a notice explaining she would be 
entering into a legally binding agreement with Nationwide. She said Clause 5 a. of the Loan 
Agreement says: When we've received and processed your signed electronic or paper form 
agreement (which may include carrying out credit checks and verifying your identity and the 
information you've provided in your application), we'll pay the loan into your chosen account.
In a subsequent email Nationwide said a contract existed, but the terms arent enforceable 
until the money is in Mrs Fs account. But Mrs F said a contract is enforceable as soon as it 
is signed. Nationwide then said that part of the application process is to offer a loan which is 
binding, but we can only proceed with these checks once an agreement has been signed. 
Mrs F said this is a clear departure from the rules as Nationwide made an offer which she 
accepted but the term says they can carry out checks to verify accuracy.  
Mrs F said her application was denied on the grounds of being a non-member, but she is a 
member of Nationwide. She said she made three applications for loans, in her maiden and 
married names. She requested her name be changed back and a change of address, but 
Nationwide didnt carry this out. Mrs F said she hadnt noticed this when she made the first 
application, and used her maiden name and current address. She said on Nationwides 
advice she updated her account and made a new loan application, but it was still rejected. 
Nationwide rejected Mrs Fs complaint saying its Personal Loan Terms and Conditions 
(Fixed Sum Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974) state a loan may 
be offered, which once signed is legally-binding, but doesnt confirm funds will be released. 
The terms state, when weve received and processed your signed electronic or paper form 
agreement (which may include carrying out credit checks and verifying your identity and the 
information youve provided in your application), well pay the loan into your chosen account. 
Nationwide said section 67 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, shows that both the debtor or 
the lender can cancel the agreement, as long as the loan isnt secured on land or business. 
Mrs F said that under section 67 the lender cannot withdraw. Nationwide also said the FCA 
rules state, A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
(1) of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
(2) obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency, and the information must enable the firm to carry out a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment.
Nationwide said a credit check is performed by cross referencing names and addresses, but 
Mrs Fs details didnt match her previous current account and so her full credit history wasnt 
shown. Taken together, Mrs Fs loan applications were declined primarily on the grounds 
that Nationwide considered it unaffordable to her.
Mrs F was dissatisfied with Nationwides response to her complaint and referred it to us. Our 
investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said Mrs Fs name on the loan application 
didnt match Nationwides records and so it was rejected, and it rejected her next application 
as unaffordable under its commercial discretion. She said Nationwide can make preliminary 
checks before an application is finalised as its only at the agreement-in-principle stage and it 
retains the right to reject an application after conducting sufficient credit checks. 
The investigator said its Nationwides usual practice to request agreement to its terms before 
completing the checks and this is set out in the Personal loan Terms and Conditions which 
Mrs F would have reviewed prior to completing her application. And so she couldnt say that 
Nationwide acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mrs F. 
Mrs F disagreed and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. She said her loan 
application matched the name Nationwide held and so the investigator was wrong to say it 
couldnt identify her as a customer. Mrs F asked if the investigator had reviewed her wage 
slips to check Nationwides affordability decision. She said it wasnt typical for a bank to ask 
for an agreement prior to completing the checks and the investigator was wrong as this is a 
violation of the FCAs rules which she will report. Mrs F said she couldnt see the term the 
investigator had referred to stating that Nationwides loan agreement is only in principle until 
checks are complete. She said such a term would be unfair and will check this with the FCA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to see that Mrs Fs intention for the loan application was frustrated and I can 
understand her disappointment. I have focussed on the rejection of Mrs Fs loan application 
as unaffordable by Nationwide as this is the primary reason for its decline. I can see that she 
considers the agreement she entered into to be legally binding, and that Nationwide is in 
breach of the law of contract by not paying the loan into her account. 
It should be noted that we are an informal dispute resolution service, and it isnt our role to 
provide decisions on the law  that is the role of the courts. And so although I have 
considered the law, I havent provided a legal opinion. This means on contract law for 
example, I havent commented on a court case to which Mrs F refers about the signing of a 
contract, or commented on whether the essential elements of a contract - offer, acceptance and the passing of consideration  were present before the loan funds were due to be paid 
to Mrs F.
In line with our services responsibility I have considered whether or not Nationwide acted 
within the terms and conditions of the loan agreement and the FCA rules and Ive looked to 
see if it has treated Mrs F fairly. 
Mrs F believes she met Nationwides affordability criteria; the business has explained that 
she does not meet its internal lending criteria as it considers the loan unaffordable for her. 
Over the last few years lenders have been heavily criticised for providing customers with 
lending that is unaffordable to them and in response they have developed tighter criteria to 
help prevent customers from over-borrowing and getting into difficulties. In common with all 
lenders, Nationwide has had to put lending procedures and criteria in place that follow the 
rules to protect borrowers. From what I have seen Nationwide handled Mrs Fs application 
via its website as it would many other applications and followed the same process and 
contract terms.  
It should also be noted that in meeting its regulatory responsibilities, Nationwides lending 
criteria is part of its commercial discretion, and in the absence of unfairness it is not in our 
power to require it to change this. This means Nationwide can reflect its appetite for risk 
within the criteria that it sets. 
Mrs F said that the investigator hadnt reviewed Nationwides lending criteria and had been 
unfair to her. Its not our role to reassess a customers eligibility for a loan. We can only look 
at what a lender has done in this regard to see if it has followed its own terms and conditions 
and acted within the rules. These require Nationwide to make assessments with due 
diligence. From what I have seen, Nationwide has considered Mrs Fs application in similar 
fashion to other customers applying for a loan and applied its usual lending criteria according 
to its risk-based approach for unsecured loans. And its records show it has considered her 
income as part of its assessment. Contrary to Mrs Fs view, I havent found Nationwides 
actions in rejecting her application to be unfair and disproportionate towards her. 
Mrs F said Nationwide and our investigator failed to take into account the loan terms and 
conditions. She believes that the signed loan agreement commits Nationwide to paying her 
the loan,. She said that in particular clause 5 of the contract states that Nationwide would 
carry out further checks and then pay the loan, and its refusal is unfair. The key part of the 
terms of the loan agreement is that an application may be declined after Nationwide has 
completed further checks, and it will only proceed with these checks once an agreement has 
been signed. The reference to checks and verifying within clause 5 indicates the 
conditional nature of the payment of the loan, though I think this dependency could be 
worded more specifically on the contract.  
Although this may sound rather circular, the reason why many lenders follow the agreement-
in-principle approach before committing to paying a loan is because it ensures full credit 
checks are required for the customer (they can affect a customers credit rating and so 
shouldnt be undertaken lightly) and this approach reduces the risk of incurring the cost of 
unnecessary checks. At this point an application may pass or fail and Mrs Fs application 
failed as Nationwide thought she was over-indebted as she had other loans, and the loan 
was unaffordable. 
Mrs F is correct to say that firms carrying on consumer credit-related activity must comply 
with the FCA rules. Firms are required to ensure that their assessment of affordability is 
based on sufficient information that the firm is aware of at the time of the assessment. The 
rules state that banks shouldnt enter an agreement before carrying out checks and that their 
communications or financial promotions are clear, fair, and not misleading. Its unfortunate that Nationwides system generated a message to Mrs F that her application 
had been approved, but this also stated, We need to carry out a few more checks before we 
can offer you a loan. From what I have seen of Nationwides approach to the assessment of 
loan applications, its terms and conditions and communications, it has met all of these 
requirements in Mrs Fs case.
Im satisfied Nationwide has followed the rules set by the FCA and the contract in that Mrs F 
signed a loan agreement, which allowed Nationwide to carry out credit and other checks, 
and verify the information provided. Having considered Nationwides actions in relation to the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, it appears to have carried out a reasonable assessment of Mrs 
Fs creditworthiness and was permitted to withdraw from the signed agreement. 
Having reached these conclusions it is my view that Nationwide has treated Mrs F fairly 
throughout its dealings with her. I also think the investigator conducted a reasonable and 
proportionate review of Mrs Fs complaint and I agree with the outcome.   
   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman