DRN-3516881
The complaint
Mr P complains that Brewin Dolphin Limited didnt act on his instruction to sell shares. He 
says it required him to provide paperwork to prove his identity, but it didnt make it clear what 
it needed and it didnt accept the documents he provided.
What happened
Mr P says hed had a share dealing account with Brewin Dolphin for more than 20 years and 
had a holding of shares, which Ill refer to as T. He phoned Brewin Dolphin in June 2021 to 
sell T shares and was given a price. But he says the shares werent sold and that, in 
communications afterwards, Brewin Dolphin questioned his identify. After he complained, 
Brewin Dolphins response letter finally made it clear what paperwork he needed to provide. 
But, when he provided it, Brewin Dolphin didnt accept it. But Mr P says Brewin Dolphin 
provided him with copies of its records in response to his subject access request (SAR).
Brewin Dolphin said it hadnt heard from Mr P for around 10 years and letters sent to his 
address were returned as gone away. In the circumstances it needed to verify his identity 
before it could action his request to sell shares. It said Mr P hadnt provided the information it 
needed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Brewin Dolphin had acted unreasonably.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
His email address hadnt changed. Brewin Dolphin should have contacted him by phone 
or email when it received returned mail.
Brewin Dolphin wrongly concluded the account was in the name of a limited company 
and it ignored him when he told it the account had always been in his sole name.
He wasnt asked to provide identification until Brewin Dolphin sent its final response to 
his complaint  around four months after hed tried to sell the shares.
The price of the shares dropped during the unnecessary and lengthy investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he referred his complaint to us, Mr P mentioned that shares had been registered in 
the wrong name and that hed been given unsuitable investment advice. He hadnt 
complained to Brewin Dolphin about either of these issues, so I cant consider them in my 
decision. Mr P is aware he needs to complain to Brewin Dolphin to give it the opportunity to 
investigate his concerns first.
The account with Brewin Dolphin was set up more than 20 years ago. And thered been no 
activity on the account, or contact with Mr P, for at least 10 years. Post sent to the address 
recorded in its records was returned as addressee gone away. It was Mr Ps responsibility 
to tell Brewin Dolphin about any change of address. I dont find there was any obligation on 
Brewin Dolphin to try to contact Mr P through other means. In these circumstances, I think 
Brewin Dolphin had an obligation to ensure that, when Mr P phoned to give share dealing 
instructions, that it was speaking with the genuine owner of the shares.
Due to the passage of time, and the information Brewin Dolphin held in its records, it wasnt 
straightforward for it to conclude who was the beneficial owner on the account. This is clear 
from the contract note Mr P provided which makes reference to a limited company, and 
another business, rather than Mr P himself. So, whilst I fully understand the delay will have 
been frustrating for Mr P, Brewin Dolphin had to satisfy itself that it was taking instructions 
from the correct individual.
Having concluded it could take instructions from Mr P, Brewin Dolphin had to verify his 
identity and his address. I find it made it reasonably clear in its final response letter what 
documents it required Mr P to provide. Whilst Mr P did provide some documentation, it did 
not meet the requirements set out by Brewin Dolphin. And I dont find those requirements to 
be unreasonable.
Mr P cant understand why Brewin Dolphin cant accept his share dealing instructions, but 
its been able to provide him with a full copy of its file. Brewin Dolphin says it was able to 
sufficiently meet the identification verification requirements set out by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to process Mr Ps data subject access request. The 
verification requirements to allow Mr P to deal are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
rules, and Mr P hasnt provided the documentation Brewin Dolphin needs to meet these 
regulatory requirements.
As Ive not found Brewin Dolphin has acted unreasonably, I dont find it is responsible for any 
loss Mr P feels hes made by not being able to sell his T shares.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman