DRN-3466197
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has unfairly handled 
its claim on its Properties Insurance policy. R is represented in this complaint by Mr W, one 
of its directors and owner of the property.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In August 2020, Mr Ws tenants contacted RSA to advise that there were wet 
carpets/flooring at the insured property.  
Mr W arranged a plumber to attend who confirmed there had been a small leak from 
a tap under the sink but said this was not sufficient to cause the level of damage 
present.
Mr W was advised by RSA he needed to ascertain the cause of damage before 
liability could be accepted.
Mr W used a damp specialist recommended by RSA. It determined there were two 
leaks one from the flat above  washing machine pipe leaked causing damage to 
ceilings and wall in lounge kitchen and bedroom. There was also a second leak in Mr 
Ws flat from the washing machine causing damage underneath vinyl flooring in 
kitchen and carpet in bedroom.
Shortly after the loss was reported, the tenants temporarily left the property due to 
health grounds and whilst the works were completed. So, R submitted a loss of rent 
claim.
After property was dried out and a drying certificate had been issued. RSAs 
contractors attended the property in October 2020 to carry out internal repairs and 
they found the property was saturated. 
The damp specialist was asked to reattend to determine if there was a third leak or if 
repairs hadnt been completed properly. It said damp issue was due to the property 
not being ventilated.
An ongoing dispute between the damp specialists and the contractor appointed to 
complete the repairs meant the property remained empty over the winter months and 
repairs were not completed. In April 2021 the repair contractor eventually agreed that 
the original leaks have possibly contributed to further condensation and damp issues. 
Mr Ws tenants had intended to come back to the property but as things were taking 
so long, they couldnt stay in their temporary accommodation any longer, so they 
found alternative permanent accommodation.
In April 2021 RSA appointed a further contractor to attend and assess the property. It 
said all damage was caused by penetrating damp and condensation issues and 
recommended the claim was declined. 
However, RSA still agreed to pay for damage to bathroom ceiling  £414.
Mr W has said to get the property back to a lettable condition he paid around £2,000. 
When Mr W bought this complaint to our service, RSA hadnt issued a final response 
but told us it had agreed to pay for the damage to the bathroom - £414 and it had 
calculated the loss of rent from date on incident to date the tenants moved out  27 
days totaling £445.50. 
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W provided the damp 
specialist report which was shared with RSA. She then upheld the complaint, saying 
the damp specialists initial report was more persuasive than the latter report that was 
conducted some eight months after the initial water leaks. She felt RSA should pay 
the claim including the mould damage and damage to the flooring and pay 8% per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement subject to receipt of 
invoices. Our investigator asked RSA to reconsider the loss of rent as the tenants 
moved out due to health reasons. RSA didnt respond on this point.
RSA didnt agree and reiterated information that the investigator had considered so it 
didnt change her mind. The complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the reports that have been made available to me. The damp specialist 
report that was conducted in early September 2020 shows it conducted thermal imaging to 
detect the leaks. The thermal image clearly shows a wet ceiling. The moisture equipment 
found high levels of moisture and humidity in the ceilings and walls in the lounge, kitchen, 
and bedroom. There was also mould on the walls and ceiling. It concluded the cold-water 
feed pipe to the washing machine in the flat above had been slowly leaking for some time 
causing the water damage.  It also advised that added moisture was also contained in the 
kitchen vinyl and carpet in bedroom - this was due to a failed door seal on the washing 
machine.  
I can see after the repair contractor told RSA the property wasnt dry the damp specialists 
were asked to revisit to establish why the property was still wet.  It conducted a damp 
diagnostics survey. This concluded that all walls in all the rooms were in fact dry. The mould 
growth was reported to be an issue due to poor ventilation and said it appears to have been 
ongoing for some time, coupled with lack of heat in the property in colder months.
During an inspection, RSA spoke to the owner of the flat upstairs who said she had a small 
leak behind her washing machine which has since been repaired. The leak behind the 
washing machine was very minor. She also said she had a leak in her bathroom from the 
WC that was fixed at the same time but that hadnt caused any damage.
There were avoidable delays due to the conflicting opinions if the property was dry and the 
cause of the damp/mould issues. It took until January 2021 for RSA to authorise that both 
the damp specialist and the repair contractor corroborate to find a resolution and report 
back. 
The repair contractor did eventually agree that the damp conditions could be a result from 
the escapes of water and that the property wasnt lived in at the time. However, by this stage 
RSA instructed another surveyor to validate the claim.
Their report conducted in April 2021 found that there was no damage under where the 
upstairs flat had a water leak. They concluded that the damage to the ceilings and walls in the property was the result of damp and condensation and recommended the claim is 
declined. Im not persuaded by this report because I dont think sending a surveyor out to the 
property eight months after the loss is beneficial. A lot can change within that time. I note it 
also declined all damage due to penetrating damp, when two escape of water leaks had 
previously been identified.
Im more persuaded by the first report as this was completed within a couple of weeks of the 
loss being reported and gives more indication of the damage caused. I note there is no 
mention within this report that there were ventilation problems or penetrating damp.
The first issues we hear regarding damp is after damp specialists second report, over two 
months after the damage had occurred. And based on the available evidence, Im not 
satisfied the insurer has proved the exclusion as required to be able to reasonably rely on it. 
Having looked at the timeline of events Im persuaded that the condensation/damp issue has 
more likely occurred as a result of the escape of water claims. RSA has indicated throughout 
the claim, the ceiling was a minor leak, but the leak detection report confirms otherwise. Ive 
taken into consideration that the property was empty, so it wasnt being heated and 
ventilated and from what Ive seen wet carpet and flooring were still in situ that wouldve 
added to the problem. 
Mr W has now completed the repairs I therefore instruct RSA to pay the claim including the 
mould damage on receipt of invoices.
Whist it was identified there was a leak also from the faulty seal on the washing machine in 
the flat that affected the vinyl flooring in the kitchen and bedroom carpet, it doesnt appear 
RSA have offered any settlement for this. Its unclear why. I will therefore direct it to pay to 
replace the flooring.
The tenants of the affected property moved out due to the issue temporally. Their intention 
was to return to the property once it had been repaired. However, given the length of time 
the claim took, they found a new residence resulting in R losing rent. RSA requested a copy 
of the tenancy agreement and an email from the tenant confirming the reason for moving 
out. RSA have already agreed to pay loss of rent for 27 days when it responded to the 
complaint at our service but Im satisfied that it should be extended to 115 days when the 
rental agreement was formally ended subject to the relevant documents being provided and 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Putting things right
I instruct Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay the claim including the mould damage and damage to the flooring and pay 8% 
per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement subject to receipt of 
invoices.
Pay the loss of rent for 115 days subject to the relevant documents being provided 
and remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 Angela Casey
Ombudsman