DRN-3732291
The complaint
Mr F complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of the key events here. 
In 2011, Mr F purchased a property from a developer. Shortly after, he became aware of 
some issues with the property and in 2012 he made a claim under his legal expenses 
insurance policy to pursue legal action against the developer. His insurers at the time where 
Insurer A, who accepted the claim and in 2017 a settlement was agreed. 
Mr F tells us that the settlement was never performed, and the claim became statute barred. 
But in 2019, the developer made a new offer which resulted in a non-negotiable agreement 
between the parties. 
Unfortunately, the agreement wasnt completed. So Mr F made a claim to enforce the 2019 
agreement. By this time, his insurers were Amtrust whose policy incepted in 2018.
Amtrust declined the claim. It said there was no cover for claims that started before the 
policy did, and that the series of events which gave rise to the claim dates back to 2011. But 
Mr F didnt agree. He says this is an entirely new set of proceedings as nothing more can be 
done about the 2017 settlement due to it being statute barred.
Mr F raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold 
it. She was satisfied Amtrust had declined the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and that its decision wasnt unfair. As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs legal expenses policy with Amtrust say:
Family Legal Protection covers advisers costs and other costs and expenses as 
detailed under the separate sections of cover, up to the cover limit wherethe 
insured incident takes place in the insured period.
The policy defines insured incident as:
The incident or the first of a series of incidents, which may lead to a claim under this 
insurance. Any actions, incidents or events that are linked by cause or time shall be 
classed as one insured incident. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have 
arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or 
time.
I appreciate why Mr F feels that his claim is a new set of proceedings. But this doesnt mean 
its a new insured incident and therefore a new claim in the context of his policy terms and 
conditions. 
The enforcement of the 2019 agreement isnt a new or isolated event, but rather another 
incident in an ongoing series of incidents originating when Mr F first became aware of the 
defects to his property. 
The policy is clear that it will consider the first event in the series of events as being the 
insured incident. In this case, that is in approximately 2011 / 2012. As the policy didnt start 
until 2018, the insured incident hasnt taken place within the insured period.
So whilst I sympathise with Mr Fs position, I cant fairly say that his claim meets the 
requirements of his legal expenses insurance policy. As such, Im satisfied Amtrust has dealt 
with this claim correctly and fairly in the circumstances of the complaint.
Im aware that hes submitted a claim to Insurer A under his previous policy which has also 
led to a complaint, which I will deal with separately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman