DRN-4197151
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist Motor 
Finance Limited (SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2022, Miss S acquired a used car from SMF under a hire purchase agreement. 
The car was sourced by a credit broker, who Ill refer to as C, and supplied to Miss S by a 
dealership. The car was approximately seven years old and had covered 94,621 miles when 
the agreement started. The agreement was for 57 months, and the cash price of the car was 
£7,190.
Within a month of acquiring the car, Miss S got in contact with C to explain the car had an oil 
leak. She told C that a mobile mechanic had suggested the leak was from the gearbox, 
although she couldnt provide any evidence of that as it had been a telephone conversation 
only. C asked Miss S to provide a diagnostic report and the dealership have said they 
offered to repair the car, or that Miss S could have the car repaired under warranty.
In May 2022 Miss S told C that she wanted to reject the car. A week later she provided an 
invoice and vehicle check from an independent garage which confirmed the oil return pipe 
was leaking excessively and it was damaged. The report also mentioned that the side 
engine case on the drivers side was leaking. Miss S has said she was advised to stop 
driving the car at this time. The car had travelled 98,764 miles. 
Miss S struggled to get any clear communication from C or the dealership, so raised a 
complaint with SMF in June 2022. They responded in late September 2022 and explained 
the dealership were now willing to repair the car. SMF agreed to refund Miss S two months 
repayments. 
From this point Miss S didnt hear from SMF, C or the dealership for some time. She asked 
SMF for an update in October and November 2022. As she didnt get a response she 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Whilst the complaint was being reviewed by our investigator, Miss S continued to tell SMF 
that she wanted to reject the car. However, the dealership collected the car and confirmed it 
was repaired in mid-March 2023. This hadnt been communicated to Miss S and she 
continued to reiterate that she wanted to reject it. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said she felt it was more than likely the faults seen in March 2022 were present or 
developing at the point of supply, meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Miss S 
acquired it. She said that all parties accepted the dealership had offered to repair the car, but 
our investigator said that these repairs hadnt been carried out in a reasonable time and it 
was, therefore, Miss Ss choice to reject it rather than accept the car back with the repairs 
carried out. Our investigator asked SMF to:
End the agreement with nothing further for Miss S to pay.
Refund Miss Ss deposit/part exchange contribution of £2,750.
Refund the repayments made by Miss S from May 2022 until the date of settlement.
Refund Miss S £29.99 for the diagnostic report in May 2022. 
Refund Miss S £11.81 road tax payments shed made from September 2022 until the 
date of settlement (Miss Ss mother had paid for a couple of months prior to 
September 2022).
Refund Miss S £113.81 insurance payments shed made from June 2022 until the 
date of settlement. 
Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of their payment until 
the date of settlement. 
Pay Miss S an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience the faulty goods 
had caused. 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file in relation to the 
agreement. 
Miss S accepted this. SMF were willing to accept the rejection of the car, but they were 
unhappy with the amount being charged. They felt more should be charged due to the 
mileage Miss S had travelled since acquiring the car. They also said the car showed a lot of 
damage to some panels, and they wanted to deduct some damage charges from the final 
settlement amounts. 
Our investigator explained our services approach when considering Miss Ss ability to use 
the car. She also explained that any damage charges would need to be considered by SMF 
in the appropriate way, and Miss S should be given time to review and consider them. If, at 
that stage, Miss S felt the damage charges were excessive she would be able to make a 
new complaint  but the damage charges wouldnt be considered in this review. 
As SMF remained unhappy, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered by Miss S is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. SMF are also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss S entered. 
Because SMF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Miss Ss case, the car was used and had covered approximately 94,500 
miles when she acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
In Miss Ss case Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
her. Ill explain why.
As Miss S brought her concerns to SMFs attention more than six months after shed been 
supplied with the car, it was for her to prove the faults with the car were present or 
developing at the point of supply. Miss S has provided an independent report from May 2022 
that confirms the oil return pipe was leaking excessively and was damaged, and that the side 
engine case on the drivers side was leaking. This report is consistent with what Miss S has 
said the mobile mechanic told her in March 2022, and what she first brought to Cs attention 
at the time. C has also confirmed it was told about the oil leak in March 2022. I think the 
report is the most persuasive piece of evidence to support the cars quality  and I dont think 
its satisfactory for a car to present itself with an oil leak in various parts of the engine so 
soon after being supplied. More importantly, it appears that SMF have now accepted the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point it was acquired by Miss S  the only outstanding 
issue seems to be how to remedy the current situation. Miss S would, ideally, like to reject 
the car. SMF are responsive to that but feel that more should be charged to take account of 
the mileage covered since the car was supplied, and the damage to the car upon collection 
by the dealership. Ill cover those aspects later in this decision. 
Having considered everything thats been provided, my decision is that rejection of the car is 
the most appropriate and fairest way to resolve the complaint. The CRA explains that Miss S 
can ask SMF to reject the car after the initial 30 days of the agreement if any repairs havent 
been completed in a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to her. Im not 
satisfied this requirement has been complied with, in this case. SMF have confirmed that the 
dealership had agreed to undertake the repairs in September 2022 but, because of a 
breakdown in communication between C and the dealership, the car wasnt collected from 
Miss S until March 2023. I accept the dealerships responses or lack of action isnt the 
responsibility of SMF, but I do think they have had plenty of time in this case to step in and 
try to help Miss S find a reasonable solution. She has shown that she asked them for 
updates in October and November 2022, which she didnt receive a response to. SMF failing 
to step in to help has caused Miss S significant inconvenience. 
It's taken six months from the suggestion of repair to the repairs taking place. As SMF are 
the supplier of the car under this agreement, Im satisfied they must take responsibility and 
accept that Miss S was waiting an unacceptable length of time to have any repairs 
completed. Because Im satisfied Miss S was waiting an unacceptable length of time for any 
repairs to happen, it follows that Im satisfied that she now has the right to reject the car, 
rather than accept it back with the repairs completed. 
Miss S has confirmed that shes continued to make the monthly repayments for the car, in 
addition to continuing to pay for the road tax and insurance for it. Because of her need for a 
car to enable her to continue to work  Miss S was a carer and needed to be mobile to 
continue to deal with issues caused by the Covid-19 pandemic  Miss S needed to source 
another car and plan to pay for that too. SMFs handling of this matter has caused Miss S 
some distress, and I will be asking them to make a payment for that.
I appreciate SMF feel they should be able to deduct a charge per mile to indicate the use 
Miss S has had of the car. Ill explain why I dont agree. The CRA sets out that where the final right to reject is exercised, any refund can be reduced 
by a deduction for use, taking account of the use the consumer has had of the goods (in this 
case, the car). Ive thought about what reflects a fair deduction for the use Miss S had of the 
car. 
Ive looked at the agreement between SMF and Miss S. When it was entered, SMF and 
Miss S came to an agreement for the amount she would pay to use the car, which was 
£116.81 a month. The agreement doesnt contain a mileage allowance or any provision 
which allows SMF to charge Miss S for mileage or excess mileage. 
Miss S had driven the car around 4,000 miles in the four months that she had use of it, which 
is around what Id expect to see for a car of this type over this period. So, shes driven it an 
average number of miles. 
As Miss S has neither excessively underused nor excessively overused the car in the period, 
Im satisfied that the monthly payment originally agreed represents a fair charge for the use 
Miss S had of the car. 
So, I find it reasonable for SMF to retain all the monthly repayments made by Miss S up to 
May 2022, to reflect the use shes had of the car. But I dont think its fair for them to make a 
reduction of 25 pence per mile as suggested. 
To put things right, SMF should end the agreement with nothing more for Miss S to pay. 
They also need to reimburse Miss S all the monthly repayments shes made towards the 
agreement since May 2022, excluding the two monthly repayments they refunded when 
originally dealing with Miss Ss complaint in September 2022. Im satisfied that she stopped 
using the car in May 2022, and the mileage when it was collected in March 2023 confirms 
that. Additional interest of 8% simple should be added to each payment refund, from the 
date it was paid until the date of settlement. 
Due to the lack of information about what was going to happen to the car, Miss S continued 
to pay the road tax and insurance for it. Im satisfied she should be reimbursed for that too. 
She has paid £11.81 a month for the road tax since September 2022  her mother helped 
her out with the first couple of payments  and £113.81 a month from June 2022 for her car 
insurance for this car. SMF will need to reimburse her those amounts, including 8% simple 
interest from the date they were paid until the date they settle. 
In addition, Miss S made a deposit contribution by way of part exchange towards the 
agreement. This should be returned to her. In addition to this, SMF should reimburse Miss S 
the cost of the diagnostic report she had completed in May 2022. SMF should also remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to this agreement. 
Finally, its clear this situation has caused Miss S some distress. SMF have taken longer 
than necessary to deal with this matter. Its also caused Miss S some financial worries too as 
she needed to source and pay for another car to enable her to keep working. Our 
investigator has recommended an award of £250 to reflect this inconvenience. I see no 
reason to depart from that.
SMF have asked to deduct an amount from the settlement to reflect the damage the car has 
sustained while in Miss Ss possession. Miss S doesnt deny the car might have some 
damage, as it was stationary on the road outside her house for several months awaiting 
collection. However, SMF need to follow the correct procedure and guidelines to invoice 
Miss S for the damages they believe she has caused and allow Miss S the opportunity to 
pay for them or dispute them. Depending on the outcome to that, a new complaint might be 
able to be brought to our service. But the damage charges havent been considered by me in the context of this complaint as Miss S hasnt been given the appropriate opportunity to see 
SMFs reasons for any deductions and provide any reasoning of her own. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Miss S to pay.
Refund Miss Ss deposit/part exchange contribution of £2,750.
Refund the repayments made by Miss S from May 2022 until the date of settlement 
(excluding the two payments already returned in September 2022).
Refund Miss S £29.99 for the diagnostic report in May 2022. 
Refund Miss S £11.81 road tax payments shed made from September 2022 until the 
date of settlement. 
Refund Miss S £113.81 insurance payments shed made from June 2022 until the 
date of settlement. 
Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of their payment until 
the date of settlement.*
Pay Miss S an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience the faulty car has 
caused. 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file in relation to this 
agreement. 
*If Specialist Motor Finance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss S how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman