DRN-3631360
The complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined his claim for 
damaged items under his Disabled Student Allowance insurance policy, after his laptop 
caught fire, because he hadnt retained the damaged items for inspection.
What happened
Mr K had accidental damage and theft cover under his Disabled Student Allowance (DSA) 
insurance policy with Amtrust. I understand that he had no other home insurance cover. 
Mr K said that on 27 November 2021, he put his laptop on charge, and then went for a bath. 
He said that during his bath, the laptop caught fire. He said the fire damaged several pieces 
of specialist equipment, as well as the glass table they were on. Mr K thinks that the 
batteries in the laptop exploded and caused the fire.
Mr K told this service that hed been to see his GP after the fire as the whole experience was 
traumatic for him. He also said that the claim had been very stressful. He said he had to 
defer his university course as he couldnt study without his specialist equipment, which had 
been damaged by the fire. 
Mr K said he was able to put the fire out himself. I understand that Mr K lives alone. And that 
he suffers from serious health issues and is registered disabled. 
Mr K said that the damaged items smelt strongly of smoke, so he moved the charred items 
from his room to the communal bin room. He said that as his phone wasnt working at the 
time, he couldnt take pictures of the damaged items before disposing of them.
Mr K said he didnt know that Amtrust would need the damaged items, given how charred 
they were. He said he hadnt received the email hed been sent which contained the policy 
documents. Amtrust provided evidence that theyd sent the policy schedule and wording on 
3 March 2020. And noted that Mr K had used the correct policy number on his claim form. 
Mr K said he had his phone reset on 28 November 2021 and it started to work. He said he 
tried to report his claim that day, but the business he was contacting was closed. So he 
reported the fire as soon as he could, which was when he was out of the house on 29 
November 2021. He said he was told that he would be sent an email with a link he could use 
to make a claim.
Mr K said he was coughing a great deal after the fire. And had a chest x-ray as an 
emergency request by his GP. He said that on his way back from his chest x-ray on 29 
November 2021, he checked his emails and noticed that hed also been told to keep the 
damaged items for collection. He said he called the business who sent him the information to 
let them know the damaged items might still be in the communal bin room. But that by the 
time he returned home, the communal bins had been emptied and the damaged items had 
gone.
On 1 December 2021, Amtrust requested additional information from Mr K in order to assess 
the claim. They asked for photos of the damaged items. Mr K replied the same day to 
explain that as all the damaged items were blackened, melted and burnt, and due to the 
fumes, hed put them in the communal bin room. And theyd been collected before hed 
known he needed to keep them.
On 8 December 2021, Amtrust declined the claim because Mr K hadnt retained the items for 
inspection in line with the policy terms and conditions. They noted the following claim 
condition:
2. Retain the Equipment 
You must retain any damaged Equipment or Components and make these available for 
inspection to the Repairer. Failure to make the Equipment available to Us may void the 
claim. 
Mr K appealed to Amhurst to reconsider his claim, given his circumstances. On 10 February 
2022 Amhurst responded to his appeal. They asked Mr K to confirm whether his laptop, or a 
different item that was on the table at the same time, had started the fire. They asked him to 
confirm if there was any prior damage to his laptop if it had started the fire. They also asked 
for documentation of the chest x-ray.
Mr K replied to explain that he felt the fire had started from the laptop. He also provided 
Amhurst with evidence of his chest x-ray on 29 November 2021. Mr K also told Amhurst that 
there was no damage to his laptop before the fire. 
Amhurst turned down Mr Ks appeal. They maintained the declination of the claim on the 
basis that the damaged items werent retained for inspection. They said theyd needed to 
understand why the laptop caught fire suddenly. They said that the laptop manufacturer had 
confirmed that there had been no other reported incidents of the type of laptop Mr K owned 
setting on fire. 
Mr K then appealed to Amhursts management. They asked him to confirm if hed contacted 
the fire service department to report the incident. Mr K confirmed that he hadnt contacted 
the fire brigade, or anyone else, as his phone hadnt been working. 
Amhurst referred the appeal to their underwriters for their consideration. They replied that 
there was no proof of loss. And it had been confirmed that the laptop had no known battery 
fire issues. They said laptop fires were an old problem which dont happen these days. And 
that they could only really occur if there was physical damage to the battery, which Mr K had 
confirmed there wasnt. They felt that the decision to decline the claim was correct under the 
circumstances.
Amhurst wrote to Mr K on 25 February 2022 to tell him that they hadnt upheld his appeal, 
and his subsequent complaint. Unhappy, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered that the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that Mr 
K hadnt met the policy term about retaining items for inspection, but didnt think that the 
term had been applied fairly when declining the claim. She felt that the purpose of the term 
requiring damaged items to be inspected was so the insurer could confirm that the damage 
was caused by an insured event, and to determine whether the item was repairable. She felt 
that Amhurst had accepted that there had been a fire, which was covered under the policy. 
And that given the circumstances Mr K had described, it was highly unlikely that the items 
wouldve been repairable. To put things right, she felt that the claim should be paid. 
Amtrust didnt agree with our investigator.As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a final review.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 July 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mr 
K. I acknowledge that our investigator felt it unreasonable that Amtrust had declined the 
claim on the basis that Mr K hadnt retained the items for inspection in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. But I dont agree. Ill explain my decision. 
Not all damage will be covered by an insurance policy. If it was then insurance policies 
would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the insured perils (or, 
events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is covered. If a 
policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by one of the 
policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely on one of the 
policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
In this case, Amtrust initially declined the claim on the basis that Mr K hadnt retained the 
damaged items for inspection, in line with the policy terms and conditions. They also said 
that they couldve reasonably declined the claim on the basis that there was no evidence of 
an insured event. This disagrees with our investigators view that Amhurst hadnt raised any 
concerns that the fire didnt occur as stated.
Amhurst told this service that they would generally prefer to rely on a breach of a clear claim 
condition rather than question a customers account of an incident. Amtrust said that 
retaining a damaged item or providing photos is part of any insurance claim and that it would 
be difficult for them to accept any claim without either the damaged item or photos of it. From 
what Ive seen, no photos of the damage have been provided. Mr K said this was because 
his phone wasnt working at the time of the alleged fire. 
Amtrust havent been given any other evidence to validate that an insured event took place. I 
say this because the fire brigade wasnt called to the alleged fire. No photos of any fire 
damage have been provided. I acknowledge that Mr K has explained that he couldnt call 
anyone, or take any photos of the damage, because his phone wasnt working. But I dont 
consider the fact that the communal bin collection has been confirmed to have taken place 
when Mr K said it did provided any confirmation that there was a fire. 
Amtrust acknowledged why Mr Ks first instinct was to throw out the damaged items, 
especially considering his health conditions. But asked for some other evidence to show that 
a fire had taken place. They said that photos of the damaged items wouldve been 
acceptable, but Mr K has explained why this wasnt possible. Amtrust said they wouldve 
also accepted photos of the broken glass table Mr K said the laptop was sitting on at the 
time of the alleged fire. They asked if this had also been disposed of. They said they 
wouldve considered photos of burn marks on the flooring or elsewhere. But I understand 
that nothing has been provided yet. 
Amtrust said Mr K needed to show that an insured event had taken place. They said the 
hospital letter theyd been provided with confirmed that Mr K had a chest x-ray shortly after 
the alleged fire, but that it didnt provide any details about why the x-ray had been requested 
by Mr Ks GP. They said that a letter from the GP which confirmed the reason for the referral 
would be more helpful. Mr K said hed been coughing a great deal since the fire. And that he had a chest x-ray as 
an emergency request by his GP. This took place on 29 November 2021, two days after the 
alleged fire. Amtrust said that they might be able to reconsider the claim if a GP letter 
explaining the reason for the chest x-ray was provided.
Mr Ks GP provided a letter dated 25 July 2022. This said: 
This gentleman spoke to me on the 15/11/21 regarding chest pain when yawning or taking a 
deep breath in.
He has a background of asthma and is on several inhalers.
Two days prior to his x-ray his laptop caught fire, which he reports exacerbated his 
symptoms.
A chest x-ray was performed on the 29/11/21 which was unremarkable.
Although I have no reason to doubt Mr Ks testimony about the laptop fire, Ive found no 
other evidence that an insured event occurred. The GPs letter confirmed that the x-ray 
appointment was arranged long before the alleged laptop fire. So I cant reasonably ask 
Amtrust to take the fact that an x-ray was carried out after the alleged fire as evidence that 
there was an insured event. I also note that the GP said that the chest x-ray was 
unremarkable. Again, if thered been some evidence of smoke-inhalation, I mightve been 
able to use this as evidence that an insured event occurred. But without any other evidence 
of an insured event, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to consider that Amtrust unfairly 
declined the claim. 
While I know this will be extremely disappointing for Mr K, and Im very sorry for what hes 
been through, Im not satisfied that he has shown that an insured event occurred. And Im 
not persuaded that Amhurst acted unfairly when they relied on one of the policy exclusions 
to decline the claim. I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to expect Amtrust to 
accept a claim when the customer didnt provide any evidence of damage from an insured 
peril. Im also satisfied that Mr K failed to meet the claim conditions, under the terms of his 
policy, when he failed to provide Amtrust with either the damaged items or photos of them. 
Therefore Ive found no evidence that Amtrust did anything wrong. And I dont intend to 
uphold the complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
Amtrust had nothing further to add.
Mr K told this service he was currently suffering from covid-19 and that this had led to a 
scheduled operation being cancelled.
Mr K reiterated some of his earlier points and provided the following new information:
He said hed never heard of Amtrust until Monday 29 November 2021, when he 
received an email from the business which had provided his DSA equipment. He said 
he called Amtrust after receiving a link from that business to use to make his claim. 
And that theyd provided him with his policy number. 
He said that in the week after his equipment had been delivered, hed noticed that his 
laptop and charger unit heated up whilst on charge. He said hed reported it to the 
business which had provided the laptop on several occasions. But had been told it 
was nothing to worry about. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear Mr K has covid-19. I hope he recovers quickly and that his operation 
goes well.
Having carefully considered Mr Ks additional points, Im not persuaded to change my 
opinion. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge that Mr K said he didnt receive the policy documents, and had never heard of 
Amtrust until 29 November 2021. But Amtrust provided evidence that theyd sent the policy 
schedule and wording on 3 March 2020. So Im satisfied that the documents were sent to Mr 
K. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Amtrust responsible for Mr K not 
receiving them.
I appreciate that Mr K has now told this service that his laptop and charging unit heated up 
whilst on charge. I can see that he believes this is what caused the alleged fire. But he said 
hed reported the issues, and had been told it was nothing to worry about. And Amhurst 
separately confirmed that the laptop had no known battery fire issues. Theyd also said that 
such fires required physical damage to the battery, which Mr K had confirmed there wasnt. 
While I understand why Mr K feels the way he does, Im not satisfied that hed provided 
sufficient evidence that his laptop overheated and caused a fire. 
Therefore I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman