DRN-4258703
The complaint
Mr H complains about One Call Insurance Services Limited referring him to an accident
management company when he called to claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident in his car with a third party, so he called the claims number
in his policy documents. The call was answered by another company who, as well as
handling these calls, are also an accident management company (AMC). For ease of 
reading Ill refer to them as A.
Rather than claiming on his motor insurance policy, Mr H agreed to A carrying out the
repairs to his car and claiming the money back from the third partys insurer. A also arranged
a hire car for Mr H, which was also charged to the third party. As Mr Hs car couldnt be
repaired it was deemed what is known as a total loss. Mr H wasnt happy with how A
handled the claim for his car and complained. He said there was a difference in the market 
value the AMC gave for his car and what his GAP insurer valued it at.  He said he had lost 
out on taxi fares hed been told he could claim back as well as the cost of the paint 
protection hed put on his car.
Unhappy with As response, Mr H referred his complaint here. One of our investigators let Mr
H know his complaint about A wasnt one we could consider as hed been referred outside of
his regulated motor insurance policy. Unhappy with this, Mr H complained to One Call about
being referred to an AMC.
One Call explained that A operates as its claims directory service and as Mr Hs claim was
deemed non-fault it was dealt with by A. Because of this, One Call said it had no
involvement in Mr Hs claim and so didnt think it had done anything wrong. Unhappy with
One Calls response, Mr H asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought the
policy terms and conditions werent clear that when Mr H called the number in them, to
report a claim, that he would be referred outside of his insurance policy. He also thought Mr
H would have been able to claim for the additional losses hed had through his motor
insurance policy if he used it. So he asked One Call to cover any car hire charges Mr H was
being pursued for, cover his claim for personal belongings that were in his car and pay him
£150 for the distress and inconvenience of the poor referral.
One Call didnt accept our Investigators outcome. It said Mr H wasnt being pursued for any
car hire charges and as he hadnt used his car insurance policy it didnt think it mattered
what it covered. One Call also said that A had an alternative dispute resolution service Mr H
could use if he was unhappy with A. One Call also didnt agree it had referred Mr H to A and
said A had taken the call in its own capacity.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 August 2023 where I said:
One Call has provided a copy of the script A would follow when it receives a call on the
claims line. Ive reviewed this script and it says:
We are [name] who deal with non-fault claims on behalf of your
broker
It goes on to say:
will be more than happy to deal with your claim on a non-fault basis.
This means you will not have to pay your excess and provided there are
no issues with liability a hire car will be provided as all costs will be
recovered from the at fault insurer
Ive also called the claims line in Mr Hs policy terms and conditions, which is answered by A.
When the call is answered an automated message is played in which A says:
we handle claims on behalf of One Call Insurance and their insurance
partners
Ive also noted the policy document in the definitions section refers Mr H to his insurance 
certificate to see who his motor insurer is and under the Us, Our, We section it says: One 
Call Insurance Services Limited. Im therefore satisfied that when Mr H called the number in 
his policy documents, he was calling One Call and that One Call has delegated the claims 
call handing to A.
So, when Mr H called One Call to report the damage to his car, he was transferred to A to
handle the call on One Calls behalf. This means that A was acting as One Calls agent. So
One Call is responsible for As actions or omissions during this call when it discussed Mr
Hs claim options and referred him for credit hire and repair.
However, One Calls responsibility for As actions is limited to when A were acting on One
Calls behalf - and One Call is not directly responsible for any actions or omissions of A
outside of this. In other words, A was acting in its own capacity when handling Mr Hs claim 
not on behalf of One Call. And I dont have the jurisdiction to consider the actions of the
AMC.
So, to be clear, I am only considering what happened during the call between Mr H and
A (acting on One Calls behalf) when he was referred for credit hire and repair, and whether
A, as One Calls agent, met the required standards.
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As Mr Hs insurance broker, One Call was obliged to provide Mr H with information that
was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr H contacted One Call to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his car,
One Call ought to have provided him with clear information about his options, so he could
decide how best to proceed with his claim.
I appreciate One Call appointed A to fulfil this task on its behalf, and I dont think
theres anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means One Call
is ultimately still responsible for making sure its regulatory obligations are met by any
third parties acting on its behalf.Under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1R) One Call was also required to pay due regard to the
interests of Mr H as its customer and treat him fairly. And in line with the Customers best
interests rule under ICOBS 2.5.-1R, One Call was required to act honestly, fairly, and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. And, if any
recommendations were made, One Call was required to take reasonable care to ensure
the suitability of its advice, in line with Principle 9 (PRIN2.1R).
If I find A didnt meet these regulatory requirements during the call when it referred
Mr H for credit hire and repair then One Call would be held responsible.
The referral
One Call has said its unable to provide the call Mr H had with A and has provided a call
script of what would have been discussed. While I agree this script does explain Mr H could
claim through his own insurance, Im not satisfied it goes far enough to explain the
differences to Mr H about how he can arrange for the repairs to his car so he can make an
informed choice. I say this because it doesnt let Mr H know that by continuing with A that
hes stepping outside of a regulated insurance contract, that he will need to enter a credit
agreement for the repairs to his car and the hire car, that One Call or his insurer arent
responsible for the actions of A or that he could ultimately be held responsible for the credit
hire charges and that any recourse he may have if things go wrong arent the same as he
gets through his regulated insurance contract.
As Im satisfied the referral was not good enough, Ive looked at the implications of the poor
referral on Mr H. Our Investigator initially thought Mr H didnt need a replacement hire car,
however Mr H has confirmed he did. As Mr H said he did need a replacement hire car, I think
its likely if A had explained everything as it should then Mr H would still have used A as he
said he did need this car.
Mr H has explained how he feels One Call hasnt been clear and has tricked him into using
an AMC, knowing that it wouldnt provide a good claims experience. Im not convinced using
an AMC means the claim experience wouldnt be a good one. However, there are
differences to claiming on a motor insurance policy and One Call should have explained this
to Mr H before referring him outside of his regulated insurance contract. As it didnt its
clearly caused Mr H unnecessary distress and inconvenience when he found out the
differences between using an AMC and claiming on his policy. And as this happened after
Mr H raised concerns about the AMC, Im satisfied that by not explaining the difference
beforehand has cause him distress and inconvenience. Therefore, One Call should
compensate him for this by paying him £150 compensation.
Ive also considered the other losses Mr H has raised. These relate to the paint protection
applied to his car, the amount paid for the total loss value, and taxis A said he would be able
to claim back. While I understand Mr Hs frustration with these, as they relate to the actions
of A and Im satisfied Mr H would most likely have used A. He would need to raise his
concerns about these items with A. So, Im not going to tell One Call to do anything else in
relation to these.
One Call didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested. Mr H responded 
and didnt accept it. He disagreed he would have used the AMC as he said his car insurer or 
the third party insurer would have provided a car for him. He said he only agreed to use it as 
the process sounded simpler than claiming on his car insurance policy. Mr H said as One 
Call hadnt explained his options to him, then One Call should be responsible for the losses 
hes incurred by using the AMC. Mr H clarified that he wasnt disputing the market value the 
AMC gave for his car, just that A should have listened to what Mr H or his GAP insurer said about the market value and come to an agreement on it. Mr H confirmed therefore that his 
losses were the paint protection which was on his car and the cost of taxis he took before he 
was provided with a hire car through A.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs comments, but Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision. I understand Mr H disputes he would have used the AMC. While its 
impossible to know for sure, I have to decide what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened. In doing so, I have considered that his comments are made with the benefit of 
hindsight. And I remain of the view that Mr H would more likely than not have used the AMC. 
However, even, if I did agree Mr H wouldnt have used the AMC, I wouldnt be telling One 
Call to compensate for the losses Mr H has asked for. Ill explain why. 
Mr H said he has lost out on £359 for the paint protection which was on his car. While I 
understand this is a loss Mr H will need to cover, paint protection is something which would 
need to be considered as part of the market value of his car. What I mean by this is his car 
insurance policy covers him up to the market value of his car and wouldnt cover the paint 
protection separately. Therefore, if hed claimed on his own car insurance policy the paint 
protection would be taken into account when the insurer decided the cars market value. 
Therefore, the paint protection will likely have been considered by A when it decided on the 
cars market value. 
For the taxi costs Mr H has said hes been unable to recover, these are what are known as 
uninsured losses and again not something covered by his car insurance policy. And while I 
understand Mr H said he only incurred them on the advice of A, as they relate to As actions 
when acting in its own right, Mr H he would need to raise this with A separately. For these 
reasons, Im also not satisfied its fair and reasonable to tell One Call to cover them here.
I would like to reassure Mr H that Ive carefully considered his concerns and points raised 
about how he was referred to A and how he feels One Call intentionally tricked him. 
However for the reasons explained above Im not going to tell One Call to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint, I require One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr H £150 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman