DRN-3732702
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly 
declined a claim made under their buildings warranty.
Reference to Mr and Mrs C or NHBC includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
Investigator previously at length, so Ive summarised events. 
Mr and Mrs C bought a property that carried an NHBC warranty.
Theyve raised several claims to NHBC about issues across the property. These 
included concerns about a boundary wall, patio slabs, and other issues.
Mr and Mrs C raised a previous complaint with our Service that considered matters 
up until October 2020  the date of NHBCs final response letter. In March 2021, the 
Investigator upheld the complaint, awarding compensation, and directed NHBC to 
further investigate the patio claim, and act on the boundary wall claim swiftly. Both 
parties accepted this view.
Further complaints were raised with NHBC regarding the events that followed.
Mr and Mrs C say NHBC appointed an engineer to carry out a visual inspection. With 
its findings being shared in June 2021. Mr and Mrs C say this was full of 
inaccuracies, and its conclusion was that the front elevation recessed external 
masonry wasnt caused by a defect in any part of their home, nor was there any 
evidence of detriment to stability of the structure. 
NHBC said it had carried out follow up investigations regarding the patio but was 
unable to identify a cause of their movement but said it would offer a goodwill 
payment to relay the patio area.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint.
oShe said damage to the retaining wall was caused by its foundations. And 
under the warranty, cover would only be provided if this caused instability to 
the main structure. But here the evidence didnt support this was the case, 
even if the foundations had impacted paving slabs at the front of the property. 
So, she said NHBCs proposed further monitoring was reasonable.
oShe reviewed the evidence on the subject of the driveway from 2016 and 
2021 and said its suggestion to reconsider the matter was fair. And 
highlighted the report which suggested the driveway wasnt sinking, but had 
variations due to a minor settlement.
oNHBCs offer to either cash settle or carry out repairs to the rear patio slabs 
after Mr and Mrs C carried out repairs to the front of the property was fair.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, saying:
oPhysical damage to the property had already occurred and impacted its 
structural stability which was recognised by NHBCs proposals to measure 
future displacement.
oNHBCs policy made no reference to progressive movement or a lack thereof. 
So structural damage should not be ruled out.
oThe driveway block paving should be considered under Section 2 of the policy 
given they raised this matter within the first two years.
Mr and Mrs C also reviewed NHBCs evidence and commented that its engineers 
report and commentary was inaccurate as it suggested the damage may have 
always been present and uncovered when paving was replaced. And they said 
NHBC had now agreed to cash settle for the rear property works and were 
investigating the front. But NHBC had still declined to cover any repairs to the house.
Mr and Mrs C have most recently been in touch to say NHBC now accepts their claim 
and provided its Resolution Report from 17 June 2022, saying it now recognises 
there is progressive movement to the substructure which would cause eventual 
displacement. But this states the external masonry wall is structurally sound which Mr 
and Mrs C disagree with. They say its delays of two years to accept the claim 
resulted in further damage which was supported within its monitoring.
NHBC said it had carried out engineering investigations from September 2021 
onwards including trial pits and monitoring. It said these findings led it to accept some 
failings under the warranty which it would look to cash settle.
Mr and Mrs C also said theyve moved out of the property and now have tenants in 
situ given the stress this has caused them, with both Mr and Mrs C taking extended 
leave from work for mental health reasons. They said should the tenants need to be 
moved out of the home that NHBC guarantees the provision of alternative 
accommodation.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This Service does not manage ongoing claims. Within this decision Ive considered 
events between October 2020 and 21 September 2021, the date of NHBCs final 
response letter. I understand matters may have progressed since, but I will be 
focusing on NHBCs claim handling across this period in light of the available 
information and what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Boundary wall/retaining wall
Theres no dispute that warranty requires instability to the main structure to have 
taken place for an event to be covered. Nor is there a dispute there was conflicting 
expert opinion about the cause of any such instability with NHBC reaching a different 
conclusion to Mr and Mrs Cs own expert. 
So NHBC said it would carry out further monitoring. In light of the conflicting opinion 
and the expertise of the parties putting the opinions forward, I think this was a 
reasonable and pragmatic step for NHBC to take. So, I dont consider this to be a 
failing on its part.
Since the monitoring has taken place, it has accepted part of the claim. But the ongoing disagreement about this matter will sit outside of the scope of this complaint.
Rear Patio
NHBC had agreed to repair the rear patio, but on the condition the issues at the front 
of the home were first addressed to allow for safe access. Alternatively, it said it 
would offer a cash settlement. I think these were reasonable options in the 
circumstances and Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
Claims handling and other issues
Mr and Mrs C have been clear they believe NHBC is responsible for delays across 
the life of this claim. But as Ive outlined, Im not considering the entire claim within 
this case. This is because some of these matters have been considered by this 
Service previously, and many have taken place past 21 September 2021. 
And taking into account the life of the complaint, taking into account NHBCs 
obligations to handle the claim fairly and promptly, Im satisfied it has largely met 
these requirements. And any slight delays or issues with handling across the time I 
can consider under this complaint wouldnt be to the extent I would look to make a 
compensatory award for.
Mr and Mrs C have also sought assurances about the claim going forward and 
guarantees for alternative accommodation for their tenants. But these matters will 
first need to be considered by NHBC for the reasons outlined above and previously.
Mr and Mrs C raised concerns about the driveway block paving since the complaint 
came to our Service. As our Investigator outlined, these will need to be addressed by 
NHBC in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman