DRN-3212523
The complaint
Mrs K complains about AXA Insurance UK plcs unfair decisions and poor handling of her 
claim for damage from an escape of water at her home under her home insurance policy.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision in March 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
Mrs K took out a policy with AXA and in July 2019 she notified AXA that her flat had suffered 
an escape of water from a broken pipe in an external wall of her home. AXA appointed loss 
adjusters to deal with the claim. 
Mrs K initially complained there was no inspection of the damage for two weeks. She said 
the loss adjuster then provided a schedule of repairs without itemising the cost of each 
element. And she said the loss adjuster told her the flat was uninhabitable and that this was 
confirmed when an electrician said the electrics were in a very dangerous state.
In August 2019 Mrs K complained when AXA said her flat was habitable and wouldnt offer 
alternative accommodation (AA). Mrs K said this was dangerous for her family. AXA paid 
Mrs K £4,647 but she said it wasnt clear what this covered, and the loss adjusters failed to 
respond to her emails from 1 August to 4 September 2019. She said she used the payment 
to locate AA and investigate the source of the leak. Mrs K also complained that AXA hadnt 
offered its contractors for the repairs and about AXAs poor communications. 
In October 2019 AXA said Mrs Ks costs in living away from home werent covered as the 
policy excludes indirect losses but said it would pay her £5 per day for her inconvenience. It 
also paid Mrs K £150 compensation for what she had suffered. AXA paid Mrs K £3,750 for 
the repair of the electrics.
Acting on Mrs Ks concerns AXAs loss adjusters said there might be two leaks and if that 
were the case she would need to make a second claim. She complained that this stopped 
work on her claim, and AXA sent a leak specialist to investigate. AXAs loss adjusters re-
visited Mrs Ks home in January 2020 and agreed to take down and rebuild a stretch of the 
wall outside and to electrically test her appliances. Mrs K said they found only one leak 
which had put water inside and outside her home, but she said for a long time AXAs loss 
adjusters refused to acknowledge this which she felt was an attempt to avoid costs. 
Mrs K complained that AXA wouldnt send her a copy of the leak report. AXA said it owned 
the report and sent her the covering letter from the leak specialists setting out its findings. 
AXA paid Mrs K £150 compensation for her disappointment about the report.
Mrs K said it was impossible to get the work done for under £5,000 as AXAs loss adjusters 
had said. She said she cant afford to repair the outside wall or the electrics. Mrs K said she 
has suffered immeasurable losses through AXAs delays and under payment and her family 
life has been disrupted. 
In its responses to Mrs Ks complaints AXA disagreed about the delayed visit of its loss 
adjusters. Later on, AXA paid Mrs K further compensation of £250 for its lack of proactive 
handling of her claim, bringing a total compensation to £550 for distress and inconvenience.  
In March 2021 in a further response to her complaint AXA said that because Mrs K had 
provided quotes for the repairs it understood that she wanted to use her own contractors to 
carry out the work and she had paid contractors with its initial payment. AXA said the 
difference in costs between its loss adjusters estimate and Mrs Ks is due to her estimate 
including work that it didnt think was part of the claim.  
 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the two-week delay 
was fine as the loss adjuster spoke to Mrs K and agreed she would firstly get a plumber to 
stop the leak. He said a number of contacts had been initiated by AXA about the visit. 
The investigator said AXAs loss adjusters explained what the August 2019 payment was for, 
and Mrs K shouldnt have used it to have her wall taken down in looking for a second leak. 
He said Mrs K instructed her own builders the day after her claim and AXA doesnt have to 
provide its contractors and is entitled to cash settle a claim. He said the cash settlement from 
AXA didnt include VAT which could added if required and was accepted by Mrs K.
The investigator said AXA should reassess the AA from when Mrs K had to move out of her 
relatives house to when the electrics at her home were sorted. He said the overall 
compensation paid by AXA to Mrs K was fair. 
Mrs Ks representative didnt agree and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. He 
said she was concerned about the delay between 1 August and 24 September 2019 when 
AXA wasnt responding. He said she should be paid for AA from the date of claim until she 
returned home in March 2021 and suggested payment of £6,600 by way of compromise. He 
said AXA had difficulty sourcing the leak and it should have allowed her the policy sum of up 
to £5,000 to trace this. He said there was no reason why AXA shouldnt have disclosed the 
leak report to Mrs K and ought to have set out costing for each element of the repairs.
My provisional findings
This includes the messages forwarded by Mrs Ks representative marked as exhibits. 
References to AXA also include its loss adjusters.
I have looked carefully at AXA and its agents handling of Mrs Ks claim to see if it has acted 
in accordance with her policy and if it has treated her fairly. I will address each of her 
complaints separately.
Initial delay in visiting Mrs K
There was a gap of two weeks between Mrs K reporting her claim and AXAs loss adjusters 
visit. I can see from its records that AXA made a number of attempts to contact Mrs K and 
was then able to make arrangements for the visit. I dont think the delay was unreasonable.
AXA didnt offer alternative accommodation (AA) 
I have seen the reports from AXAs loss adjuster and the electrician and they both indicate 
that Mrs Ks home was uninhabitable after the escape of water. Mrs K said she and her 
family should have been provided with AA as her home was dangerous. 
The electrical report from August 2019 says that, the overall condition is deemed unsafe. 
The loss adjusters said the property was uninhabitable because the electrics needed testing, drying and then strip out of fittings was required. And so its not clear to me why AXA 
decided the property was habitable and wouldnt provide AA. 
Mrs K told AXA she needed AA on 2 August 2019 and that she was staying with relatives 
and subsequently in a friends flat at an agreed small amount. Weve asked Mrs K to 
provide something to show when she started and ended her time in the rental property and 
what she paid, such as an invoice and bank statement showing the payments. Theres no 
evidence of payments but her representative has sent some details from the property 
landlords. He has said that not all of the rent owed to the landlord has been paid by Mrs K, 
but the payments she did make were all in cash. And he said the rental agreements may be 
available from the landlord and he would gather more information. AXA has seen this 
information and has said it would like to see receipts and any other evidence of payment.
Its reasonable for an insurer to want to see evidence of payment for expenses it is expected 
to reimburse for AA, and I hope Mrs K, or her representative can provide this to AXA. In the 
absence of adequate evidence at present Im not minded to make an award for this to Mrs K.
AXA subsequently paid Mrs K £5 per day towards her expenses from the date of her claim to 
when she received the cash settlement. When a policyholder makes their own arrangements 
for staying away, we generally expect an insurer to pay a disturbance allowance to assist 
with extra expenses. We would normally expect this to be at £10 per day for adults and £5 
per day for children. And so, I currently think that AXA should pay Mrs K further disturbance 
allowance of £20 per day for the period that she was out of her home. 
Trace and Access
AXAs loss adjuster seems to have concluded that the damage at Mrs Ks home was caused 
by a single escape of water. Mrs K appears to have thought that the damage occurred from 
potentially two separate escapes of water. She employed a builder whose invoice states that 
work was carried out to trace a leak on Mrs Ks garden wall. Mrs K thinks AXA should meet 
the £4,500 cost of having her wall investigated for a second leak and rebuilt. Her 
representative said AXA authorised this work and should pay for it separately under the 
Trace and Access cover on her home insurance policy.
Mrs Ks policy includes Trace and Access cover, for the reasonable costs involved in tracing 
the source of the escape of water or leakage of oil and replacement or repair of any walls, 
floors or ceilings (including fixtures and fittings attached to them), inside the
home where this damage occurs in the course of these investigations.
 
I havent seen anything to show that AXA authorised work on Mrs Ks garden wall or thought 
there was a second leak and its not clear to me why Mrs K reached this conclusion. The 
invoices provided by Mrs K are for an untraceable builder who wasnt able to find the source 
of the leak immediately. However, AXAs loss adjusters report two weeks later identifies a 
single leak emanating from an external wall of the property as was originally thought.
AXAs loss adjuster told Mrs K she would need to make a second claim for a second leak. 
Mrs K thought this was unfair and meant she had to stop the work on her home. Its not clear 
to me why Mrs K spent part of the claim funds investigating this or why work stopped when 
shed paid the builder up front and in total. I can understand why AXA suggested a second 
claim as there was no reason for it to believe there was a second leak. I dont think AXA was 
trying to avoid costs and Im pleased it agreed to pay for part of Mrs Ks wall to be rebuilt.
The report from the leak specialist appointed by AXA confirmed that there was only one leak 
at Mrs Ks home. Mrs K said AXA wouldnt release the leak specialists report despite her 
requests. The report is AXAs property and so it wasnt required to release it, however it did forward a letter from the firm which set out its findings. AXA paid Mrs K £150 compensation 
for her disappointment about this and I currently think that is fair and reasonable.
Unresponsiveness of AXA and its agents
Mrs K said that loss adjusters failed to respond to her emails from 1 August to 4 September 
2019. I can see that she was emailing them during the period, and they tried to reach her by 
phone, as acknowledged in an email from Mrs K. Ive also seen that the loss adjusters were 
progressing her claim at the time, particularly in dealing with the quote for electrical works. I 
dont think AXA acted unreasonably here.
Mrs K said AXA and its agents communicated poorly with her. Im pleased that AXA has 
apologised for this and I think the £150 compensation it has paid her is reasonable for the 
earlier period of her claim. AXA later added further compensation of £250 for delays and lack 
of proactive handling. Ive thought about the compensation AXA has paid and overall, I 
currently think it is fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mrs K 
during her claim. Ive reached this conclusion because I can see instances where AXA could 
have provided Mrs K with better information about her claim and how it was progressing.
Payment and the amount of Mrs Ks claim
AXA made payments for Mrs Ks claim of £4,647 and added £3,750 for the electrical works 
and other payments. AXA also agreed to take down and repair a stretch of Mrs Ks outside 
wall. Mrs Ks own builder provided a quote for repairs which was much higher than AXAs. 
Mrs K said AXAs payment wasnt sufficient to carry out the work. AXA said her builders 
estimate included work that wasnt part of her claim and this explained the difference.
 
I havent found the amounts paid by AXA for the work to be unfair and generally I think they 
were adequately explained. The large variations in cost are due to the difference in what 
needs replacing and repairing between the parties quotes. Damage may have increased to 
Mrs Ks flat due to the time taken to make repairs, but as I have only found AXA liable for 
quite limited delays, I dont currently think it is liable for any further damage.
Mrs K said AXA didnt explain its payment to her and she spent this on work she thought 
was needed including taking her garden wall down and rebuilding it. I can see that AXA sent 
its loss adjusters schedule of works alongside its payment. Although the schedule was un-
costed, I think it ought to have been reasonably clear that the two were related.
AXA not offering its contractors to Mrs K
Its not clear to me why Mrs K made a claim and then arranged her own builder the following 
day. Having done this it was understandable for AXA to believe that she wanted to manage 
the repairs with her own contractors. That didnt actually prevent AXA from offering its 
contractors, but the policy does allow it to cash settle a claim and the purpose of this is for 
the policyholder to carry out and manage the work themselves. Given Mrs Ks use of 
builders and the relationship between AXA and Mrs K I can see that it was reasonable for 
AXA to proceed on a cash settlement basis.
Compensation
I have considered the compensation paid to Mrs K of £550. Her representative says that she 
should be paid damages for AXAs handling of the claim and cites case law in support. 
Damages are awarded by a court where appropriate but do not feature in our scheme of 
redress. Having considered all of the circumstances I currently think the compensation paid 
by AXA is a fair and reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience aspects of its 
poor handling of the claim caused Mrs K.If Mrs K rejects the final decision that follows on from this, it is open to her to commence 
legal proceedings against AXA where she can claim damages for her experience.
 
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint in part and to require AXA to pay additional 
disturbance allowance to Mrs K at the rate of £25 per day for her and her family for when 
they were staying away from home during the claim. And AXA could deduct from this any 
sum that it has already paid Mrs K for disturbance allowance. 
Mrs Ks representative asked what period was allowed for the rental payments and 
disturbance allowance as chasing up proof involved more work. He said I had ignored the 
proof of the £4,500 Mrs K had paid to the builder who searched for the leak and rebuilt the 
garden walls and I had come to the wrong decision on this, having ignored hard evidence. 
 
Mrs Ks representative said he would respond to the provisional decision much more fully, 
but hasnt done so. AXA didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks representative asked about the period that rental payments would be allowed. I have 
referred him to my provisional decision in which I said that our service has asked Mrs K to 
provide something to show when she started and ended her time in the rental property and 
what she paid, such as an invoice and bank statement showing the payments. 
I dont think any evidence of payments has been provided and so we cant be sure when the 
rental period started and ended. As I have said, its not reasonable to require an insurer to 
make a fixed payment without proper proof. Any evidence to support Mrs Ks claim for 
reimbursement of rental payments should be sent to AXA and be properly considered by the 
insurer.
I think the period of the disturbance allowance is linked to the period of rental payments and 
the uncertainty of this affects both aspects of Mrs Ks claim. I requested the hard evidence 
that Mrs Ks representative said Id ignored, but nothing further has been forthcoming. I 
remain of the view that AXA should pay Mrs K disturbance allowance for her and her family 
as set out in my provisional decision subject to some proof of when she was out of her 
home. Mrs K should send this to AXA.
Mrs Ks representative said I had ignored proof of her £4,500 payment to her builder. I set 
out in my provisional decision that this sum, Mrs K said she paid to have her wall 
investigated for a second leak and rebuilt shouldnt be claimable separately under the Trace 
and access provision within the policy. I havent seen anything to change this view.
I have thought again about AXAs responsiveness to Mrs Ks claim. I still think it responded 
reasonably to her initial claim. Im pleased AXA apologised and paid Mrs K compensation for 
the subsequent delay (set out above) and I think this was fair.
Neither party has commented further on the amounts paid by AXA for the work and I remain 
of the view that they appear to be fair and were adequately explained. Similarly, I havent 
heard anything further about why Mrs K made a claim and then arranged her own builder the 
following day. And so, I still think it was understandable for AXA to believe that she wanted to manage the repairs with her own contractors. The policy allows AXA to cash settle a claim 
and I think it was reasonable for AXA to proceed on a cash settlement basis.
I remain of the view that the compensation of £550 AXA has paid Mrs K is a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience aspects of its poor handling of the 
claim caused her. And I would remind her that if she rejects this decision, it is open to her to 
commence legal proceedings against AXA where she can claim damages for her 
experience.
 
In conclusion, its the responsibility of the policyholder to prove their claim, not the insurers. 
In the absence of any further evidence at this stage, I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be resolved as set out within my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman