DRN-2703786
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Accord Mortgages Limiteds (Accord) handling of his mortgage 
account 
What happened
Mr W wanted to make an overpayment of 10% to his account, in line with his mortgage 
agreement. Mr says he called Accord to confirm the outstanding balance on 1 January 2021.  
Accord says Mr W called on 31 December 2020. They gave him a figure, but this didnt take 
account of the payment due to be made on 1 January 2021. This payment, made by direct 
debit, was credited to the account on 4 January. 
Mr W called Accord again on 14 January 2021 to confirm the account balance, so he could 
make the 10% over payment. He was given a different amount, which took account of the 
payment made in early January. Mr W says this payment shouldnt have been included in 
the outstanding balance given to him during his first call, as it hadnt been credited to the 
mortgage at that time. 
Unhappy with what he considered to be conflicting information, Mr W complained about the 
information given to him. He also complained he hadnt been called back as promised. 
Accord said Mr W had called on 31 December 2020 and was given the correct balance at 
that time. Accord also said the information given during the second call was correct, as it 
represented the account balance reflecting the payment called for under the direct debit on  
1 January. Accord said it usually expected call backs to take place within 24 hours, and Mr 
W had already called in again with this time.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. He said he was 
satisfied Mr W was given accurate information during the calls. As Mr W didnt agree, this 
matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said he called Accord on 1 January 2021 to confirm the outstanding balance. Accord 
has provided its file notes, showing a call from Mr W on 31 December 2020. In this instance, 
Im more persuaded by Accords records, rather than Mr Ws recollections, that the first 
conversation Mr W had about the overpayment was on 31 December 2020. 
Accord confirmed the balance of the mortgage at that point. Ive reviewed the account 
balance and Im satisfied the information provided to Mr W was correct. However, that figure 
didnt take account of the direct debit due to be called for on 1 January 2021. When Mr W 
called again on 14 January 2021, the balance he was given was different, as it reflected the 
payment made by direct debit in early January, and the interest applied. 
When considering if Accord has provided the correct information to Mr W, Ive considered 
the terms of the mortgage. They say:
In each subsequent 12 month period from 1st January to 31st December you may 
repay up to 10% of the outstanding balance of your transfer amount as at 1st 
January 
This reflects what Mr W was told during a call he had with Accord. The adviser said when 
calculating the 10% allowance for overpayments, it was done so based on the balance as at 
1 January. 
The balance on Mr Ws mortgage as at 1 January 2021 was £68,180.19 which took account 
of the payment called for under the direct debit. As our investigator said, the file notes show 
the direct debit having a value date of 4 January 2021. This is likely due to the bank holiday, 
but Im satisfied the direct debit was called for on 1 January 2021 and the balance was 
correct. 
In summary, I dont consider Accord has provided Mr W with inaccurate information. Im 
satisfied the accurate mortgage balance was provided to Mr W on 31 December 2020, but 
the correct figure for the mortgage overpayment was given to him in January 2021. While I 
can see Mr W would have liked a manager to call him to discuss his concerns, Mr W had 
already called back in within the time frame Accord expects calls to be returned. I dont 
consider Mr W has been treated unfairly here.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman