DRN-3794451
The complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC declined her request to make a payment and tried to unlawfully 
retain funds she had in her current account.
What happened
Mrs P called Lloyds on 21 July 2022 to transfer £36,000 from her current account to a 
savings account she held elsewhere. She says she had made previous transfers to this 
account; it was in her name; and she passed all security questions so Lloyds had no reason 
not to process her request. 
Mrs P says she lost interest as a result of the delay and asks for £250 compensation. 
Lloyds explained that it asked Mrs P to take identification into a branch as the agent was not 
satisfied with how the call went. This was in line with its fraud prevention processes and to 
protect Mrs P and her money.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. He said having listened to the call he was 
satisfied the agents concerns were reasonable. The bank has to have measures in place to 
detect potential fraud and in this case it fairly applied its policies.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the agent 
had a strong regional accent and she should not be disadvantaged by this, and it was an 
account she had made previous and significant transfers to. The volume of recent 
transactions on her account is not relevant, she simply had a number of maturing deposits at 
that time.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a payment the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a bank has a duty to its
customer to take reasonable care when making such a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the instruction relates to fraud, a scam or
any other criminal act. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from
potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to make reasonable enquiries including 
but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding the payment instruction.
Against those obligations however, the bank also has a contractual duty to execute a valid
and proper order to fulfil its customers instructions.
This means when Mrs P asked to transfer £36,000 I think it is reasonable Lloyds 
wanted to find out more about the source of the funds into her account and the reason for 
the transfer out.
I have listened carefully to the call between the parties. Mrs P asked the agent to speak 
clearly and slowly, explaining English was not her first language. He acknowledged this 
request and Mrs P appeared to understand him during the call. There were however times 
during the call when the parties spoke at the same time, and the line dropped for Mrs P at 
points, so the conversation was not wholly clear and precise. In the circumstances I find it 
was reasonable that Lloyds wanted to complete further security checks before going ahead. 
Whilst I understand that the banks decision was frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs P I find
no fault with its motivation or course of action. The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps
account allow the bank to take such decisions. I dont see the bank ever suggested Mrs P 
was not entitled to the money which it holds in her name, or that it was trying to unlawfully 
retain it as she suggests. I find, for her and its own protection, it was fair and reasonable that 
it asked for her to visit a branch with identification before it could go ahead. I note Mrs Ps 
point that the payment was to an account in her name that she had transferred money into 
before but for the reasons set out above this does not change my conclusion.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman