DRN-3945688
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Close Brothers Limited (CBL) unfairly charged her impound charges 
for her car. She would like the charges refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mrs Ts frustration that CBL charged her for impound charges applied by 
the police however I cant say that CBL were wrong to do this. CBL has explained 
that the police contacted them, as the legal owner of the car, to say if the charges 
werent paid and the vehicle not collected it  would be disposed of. So, I think it was 
reasonable, on being asked to pay the charges by the police, that CBL did so to 
avoid the car being disposed of. 
I am not sure why CBL didnt tell Mrs T it was going to collect the car. Mrs T feels had 
it done so she could have collected the car and taken the opportunity to dispute the 
charges with the police. But from the evidence I have seen CBL were advised only it 
could collect the car. I dont think it was an option for Mrs T to do so. However even if 
CBL had contacted Mrs T and allowed her to attempt to collect it herself there is no 
guarantee she would have been able to get the fees waived.
The conditional Sale Agreement Mrs T signed stated she was liable for costs and 
expenses incurred, including legal costs in enforcing the agreement. The police 
charged the impound charges not CBL. So, if Mrs T isnt happy at the charges she 
might want to raise this with the police. But I dont think CBL acted unfairly in passing 
on charges incurred due to the police impounding Mrs Ts car. So, on that basis I 
cant reasonably ask CBL to refund the charges as she would like.
I appreciate Mrs T doesnt feel CBL kept her up to date with what was happening 
with the car. It may have been helpful if CBL had contacted Mrs T when it was 
advised to collect it, I dont know why it didnt do this. But CBL has evidenced it sent 
a default notice dated 26 September 2022 a few days after it recovered the car. I 
understand Mrs T  didnt get this, but I dont know why. I have seen this notice and it 
was correctly addressed so I am persuaded CBL sent it. This gave Mrs T the 
opportunity to collect the car and continue the finance agreement which is what she 
did. I think the notice of default was fair as was CBLs action in allowing her to 
continue the finance agreement
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman