DRN-3679798
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as N complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited turned 
down a claim on their commercial insurance policy. 
X, a director of N, has complained on Ns behalf. 
What happened
N has a pickup which has a covered back. The shell for the back of the pickup has tinted 
windows and N had left tools in the back covered by a tarpaulin. Ns pickup was broken into 
and tools stolen so N claimed on its policy with Hiscox for the stolen items. 
Hiscox reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said the items were not completely hidden 
from view as they were in only covered by a tarpaulin and so not completely hidden from 
view. N disagreed and complained, they said the pickup had tinted windows and the items 
were covered by a heavy tarpaulin and so were hidden from view. Hiscox reviewed the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As N didnt think Hiscox had turned down the claim fairly they 
referred the complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found the 
policy didnt define what completely hidden meant. She also found that N had covered the 
tools with a heavy tarpaulin and were in the back of the locked pickup which had tinted 
windows and so N thought theyd completely hidden them from view. She therefore asked 
Hiscox to pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Hiscox disagreed, it said the items werent found to be completely hidden from view as you 
can see through the tinted windows and the tools being covered by a tarpaulin wouldnt be 
enough to hide them. 
As Hiscox disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term Hiscox has relied upon to turn down Ns claim says:
We do not cover:
e. theft from an unattended vehicle unless the item is completely hidden 
within the storage compartment, locked boot or locked trailer of the 
vehicle and all security measures on the vehicle or trailer are fully 
operational
I understand Hiscox believes the items stolen were not hidden from view and that is why they 
were stolen. However Im not persuaded that is what happened here and also need to 
consider that a pickup or other type of vehicle maybe targeted by a thief for another reason. 
The policy terms and conditions dont define what completely hidden means and therefore 
Ive looked at the ordinary use of the word and think its fair and reasonable to say something 
is hidden when its out of sight.   
Ns explained that they believe the items were completely hidden from view as the pickup 
had tinted windows and the items were covered, meaning they were out of sight. When 
looking at the pictures of the pickup and how the tarpaulin was applied, Im satisfied N took 
reasonable care to ensure the items were covered up, and I think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that they were completely hidden in this particular case.
As the items were completely hidden, I dont think the exclusion applies and therefore Im not 
persuaded Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in this particular case by declining the 
claim. To put things right Hiscoxs needs to pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. It should also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays for the claim 
to compensate N for not having the money. This should be calculated from the date of claim 
until the date payment is made.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to pay Ns claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Hiscox Insurance Company Limited also needs to add 8% simple 
interest per year to the amount it pays under the claim calculated from the date of claim until 
the date payment is made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman