DRN-3043625
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Coutts & Company (Coutts) gave them misleading information 
and poor advice when selling some shares - which resulted in them incurring an unexpected 
capital gains tax (CGT) liability.
What happened
Coutts provide Mr and Mrs G with an investment service  part of which is an execution only 
dealing service. 
In June 2017, they transferred a stock, Ill call M shares, into their portfolio. In 2019, Mr and 
Mrs G were seeking to reduce their holding in M shares. They wanted to sell at this point 
as it would allow them to offset a capital loss they had suffered on the disposal of some 
other assets for CGT purposes. They said they looked at the online investment reports 
provided by Coutts to work out how many shares they needed to sell to cover the loss 
without incurring a CGT liability. In March 2019, Mr G contacted Coutts by phone to check 
he understood the investment reports correctly. After this he instructed Coutts to sell 7,500 
M shares.
When Mr and Mrs G came to complete their tax return it became apparent that they had had 
a CGT liability result from the disposal of shares  which they werent expecting having 
checked the information with Coutts. They said this was because Coutts had given them 
incorrect information in the investment reports about the share price  leading them to sell 
more shares than they intended to. They say Coutts mistake left them with a tax bill of 
around £80,000. 
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint with Coutts. In summary, they said:
- Coutts provided investment reports that are misleading.  The column headed 
Average Purchase Price should be Average purchase price or price at which 
shares were transferred in and the heading Unrealised gain/loss(GBP) should be 
similarly corrected.
- It failed to obtain accurate information from their previous broker about the purchase 
price of the shares leading to incorrect information. 
- And Coutts failed to provide accurate information during the telephone call in March 
2019 when the shares were instructed to be sold. The call handler should have 
checked their understanding of the meaning of the investment report and known that 
the headings in the reports were misleading. If this had be done, they would not have 
sold so many M shares, or had to pay the tax bill. 
Coutts responded to the complaint through two responses. In summary it said:
- It wasnt responsible for the accuracy of price information  as it is reliant on details 
of the book costs being provided at the point assets are transferred in. There is no 
regulatory or contractual obligation on Coutts to obtain the correct book costs and it 
is incumbent on Mr and Mrs G to provide this information. The accuracy of the 
investment reports is dependent on the information it receives. 
- During the March 2019 call with its dealing team, it was clarified by the dealer that it 
could not give any tax advice. It was also confirmed that the cost prices calculated 
are based on a cost price upon transfer in, rather than the actual price when the 
shares were originally bought. It didnt agree that the dealer had misled or 
misinformed Mr G during the conversation. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with response and referred the complaint to this service for 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Coutts had acted 
inappropriately or were responsible for the unexpected CGT liability. In respect of the March 
2019 call, he didnt think the dealer had misled Mr G in any way or provided any assurances 
that the information that he was able to access would guarantee the outcome being sought 
to offset losses for tax purposes. He also said Coutts terms indicate they dont provide tax 
advice and the information contained in the reports is based on the figures provided to them. 
And where Coutts receives incomplete information from the previous brokers, it wasnt able 
to present fully accurate details in the investment reports. He didnt think it was Coutts 
responsibility to check this information is accurate or to chase missing information.
Mr and Mrs G responded. In summary, they said, the information in the Coutts investment 
report was wrong in respect of what the unrealised gain/loss was. The report should have 
said that the unrealised capital gain was unknown/not available because it hadnt been 
provided with the acquisition cost. If the report had done this, they would not have sold so 
many shares and therefore not had to pay a huge capital gains tax liability. They feel Coutts 
misrepresented the information which they held about the shares. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint centres around whether failings by Coutts led to Mr and Mr G receiving an 
unexpected CGT liability. Mr and Mrs G say that Coutts provided misleading information to 
them, so are at fault and are responsible for the situation. But Coutts say it isnt responsible 
for checking tax liabilities for customers. 
Coutts has provided the terms and conditions it says are relevant to Mr and Mrs Gs 
portfolio. The core section of Investment Services Terms contain the following:
9.4 Unless otherwise agreed in writing we will not provide you with tax advice, in providing 
our services. If you are in any doubt about your tax position or if you do not have tax 
expertise, it is strongly recommended that you consult a professional tax adviser. 
16.1.2 Any reports we provide regarding the investments and any taxes, payments and 
withdrawals will explain if and how they have been segregated. However, this may not reflect 
your beneficial ownership shares and you should seek your own tax advice as to the correct 
segregation for tax reporting purposes. 
21.7 You accept liability for any taxes, fees, levies or other charges arising from our dealings 
in your investments and for all taxes, regulatory fees and other duties payable in connection 
with your holding of any of them and the exercise of any rights under them. So, it doesnt appear from this that Coutts entered into an agreement with Mr and Mrs G to 
provide them with tax advice and gave them warning to seek professional advice on their tax 
position.  
Ive listened to the call Mr G made to Coutts in March 2019 to sell the shares. It is apparent 
from the call that he was looking to use the proceeds to offset some losses he made on 
another investment by utilising his CGT allowance. The Coutts dealing agent is clear that he 
doesnt have access to the information to tell Mr G the size of the gain he has made on the 
shares he was looking to sell. The agent also makes it clear hes not allowed to give any 
advice or indication on tax in case of an error. Mr G accepts this and says he will just have to 
assume that he has got the figures correct. There is a discussion about the number of 
shares to give Mr G the approximate value he was looking for based on the cost price 
showing on the system. At this point the agent again confirms he may not have access to the 
correct information. And the agent says he could see the shares were transferred from 
somewhere else, so he couldnt confirm whether the cost price showing was correct. Mr G 
agreed the number of shares to sell and gave an instruction to deal. In response to our 
investigators view, Mr G says he didnt ask Coutts for tax advice. He also acknowledged 
Coutts wasnt provided with the purchase price of the shares by himself or his previous 
broker. And he accepts the agent he spoke to in March 2019 made it clear that he could not 
say whether the numbers in the report were accurate and was careful to make sure that he 
understood that he was not authorised to give tax advice.
But Mr and Mrs G say the inaccurate information in the investment reports provided by 
Coutts led them to misunderstand their tax position  specifically the information relating to 
the cost price of the M shares held in the portfolio. The shares werent purchased through 
Coutts broking service but rather transferred from another broker in 2017. It appears this is 
at the route of why the reports didnt show the original purchase price. Coutts say at the time 
of transfer it did request CGT data  including a full transaction history of the securities being 
transferred but this wasnt received from either the previous broker or Mr and Mrs G. Coutts 
say when it isnt provided with the acquisition price, it uses the market share price at time of 
transfer as a default. And it would only update this in the investment reports if it is later 
provided with the correct price or once a transaction has taken place  i.e. shares are sold. 
As neither of these things happened before March 2019, Coutts say this is why the default 
price was showing in the investment reports it produced at the time Mr and Mrs G were 
looking to sell the shares. I consider this a reasonable position to take, in light of the fact it 
wasnt provided with full information at the point of transfer. 
Mr and Mrs G think Coutts should have indicated in the investment reports that it didnt know 
the purchase price  so just put it as zero. And by putting a default figure that was inaccurate 
they were misled, which caused them to make incorrect assumptions about their tax liability. 
I understand the point Mr and Mrs G make here but Im not persuaded that Coutts made an 
error by not listing the purchase price as zero. The issue of the accuracy of information 
stems from the incomplete information during the transfer  which Ive not found was Coutts 
fault. I say this because Im satisfied Coutts has provided evidence to show it requested 
CGT data when it accepted the transfer in 2017 and I havent seen evidence this was 
provided.  Indeed, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Coutts werent given the purchase 
price during the transfer. It maintains that it was Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility to provide the 
correct acquisition costs when originally transferring. So, while Coutts could have used a 
different default position, I dont think the approach of using the date of transfer as the 
default price is obviously misleading. 
Coutts say Mr and Mr G are relying on information in the investment reports, which it has 
previously confirmed are not tax-based reports. It says the reports arent designed to show 
tax gains and instead are designed to show investment performance. Ive also noted the 
investment reports contain explanatory notes  and under the heading Accuracy it says Every effort has been made to ensure that this report is accurate. The report should be 
checked against your records and if there is any matter you do not understand or with which 
you do not agree, please let us know. In my view this supports Coutts argument that the 
reports should be cross checked by customers for something as important as working out a 
tax liability. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I dont find that errors by Coutts caused the tax liability Mr 
and Mrs G incurred. It is clear that Coutts isnt responsible for tax advice. While I can 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs upset and frustration that information they relied in investment 
reports wasnt accurate, I havent found Coutts can be held responsible for this. The reports 
werent presented as suitable for calculating tax liabilities. The reason for the inaccuracy 
does stem from incomplete information being passed to Coutts when the shares were 
transferred. Mr G was provided with warnings on the phone about the uncertainty of the 
accuracy of the information in the reports at the time he gave the instruction to sell.  I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, but I dont think the evidence supports a 
finding that Coutts should take responsibility for any of the tax liability. So, Im not going to 
ask Coutts to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman