DRN-4211788
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc trading as Redline Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Redline. He paid a deposit of £2,214.68 and the agreement was for £15,112.32 over 60 
months; with monthly repayments of £310.50. At the time the car was just over six years old 
and had done 69,559 miles.
After taking possession of the car, Mr C noticed that the engine management light was 
illuminated. He contacted the supplying dealership about this several times, and they agreed 
to investigate and repair any faults. Mr C returned the car to the dealership on 15 August 
2022, and he was provided with a courtesy car. The dealership replaced the NOX sensor, 
timing chain, and flywheel. However, due to delays in getting parts, the car wasnt returned 
to Mr C until 2 March 2023.  
Mr C was unhappy with what had happened, and that the courtesy car wasnt suitable  it 
was too small for his family. Redline didnt uphold his complaint, as they thought the car was 
of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. But they did agree to refund one payment to 
Mr C to compensate him for any inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied there was a fault with the car when it was supplied to Mr C. 
And, because of the time Mr C had been in possession of the car before the fault occurred, 
and the mileage hed done during this time, the investigator also thought the fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr C.
The investigator said that the repairs that had been done had resolved the fault with the car, 
and there was nothing to show that the fault had reoccurred. So, he thought the repair had 
been successful. However, the investigator didnt think Mr C had been provided with a 
suitable courtesy car  he was paying for a large premium car, and the courtesy car provided 
was significantly smaller and more basic. As such, the investigator said that, in addition to 
the payment Redline had offered, Mr C should be refunded 10% of the payments hed made 
while he was in possession of the courtesy car, plus statutory interest.
While Redline were happy to refund the one payment theyd offered, they didnt think 
anything else should be paid as Mr C had been kept mobile while the car was being 
repaired. So, they asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Redline are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Redline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr C to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Redline to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied its not disputed there was a fault with the car, 
nor that there was an extended period while it was being repaired and Mr C had use of a 
courtesy car. And, in their comments, Redline havent argued that the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied, nor have they provided any evidence i.e. an 
independent engineers report, to show this was the case. As such, my decision will focus on 
what I think Redline should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr C has explained that he financed this particular car because of its size, and that he 
needed this to transport his family. Its also the case that the car was a premium make and 
model, which was reflected in the price he paid for it. However, the courtesy car was much 
smaller and wasnt of a premium make or model. 
While I dont think this would matter so much if the car had taken a few days to repair, in this 
instance the car was in for repair from 15 August 2022 to 2 March 2023  a period of about 
28 weeks. And, during this period, Mr C was paying for something  a car of a certain size, 
make and model  that he wasnt receiving. 
I appreciate Redlines comments that Mr C was kept mobile, and I dont doubt that was the 
case. But he was still paying for something he wasnt receiving for a substantial period of 
time. Given this, Im in agreement that Mr C should be refunded a proportion of the 
payments he was making to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment of the car he was 
paying for. The investigator has recommended 10% of the payments, which is in line with 
what I wouldve directed. As such, I see no compelling reason why this shouldnt form part of 
my final decision.So, Redline should:
refund 10% of any payments Mr C has made from 15 August 2022 to 2 March 2023;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Mr C made 
the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse entries relating to the above payments being refunded on Mr 
Cs credit file; and
pay Mr C an additional £310.50 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Redline to take off tax from this interest. Redline must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc trading as Redline Finance. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman