DRN-4224184
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys), in 
relation to his motor insurance policy, following a collision he was involved in when driving.  
What happened
Mr G was driving his family to the airport when another driver collided with his car and failed 
to stop. He contacted Sainsburys but it didnt provide him with any help, He says this made a 
difficult situation worse. 
Mr G says he was given no option but to drive his damaged car to the airport. He says a 
courtesy car was promised for when his family returned to the UK. But this didnt materialise, 
which meant driving his car a long-distance home in its damaged state. Mr G says 
Sainsburys provided incorrect phone numbers for him to arrange a courtesy car, which was 
a guaranteed feature of his policy that he paid extra for. 
Mr G says he had to pay £1,700 for a hire car. Also, that his car was written-off and the 
settlement payment he received was significantly less than its market value.  
In its response to Mr Gs complaint Sainsburys says it acts as his insurance broker. As such 
its responsible for the sale and the administration of his policy. It isnt responsible for the 
issues Mr G raised with the handling of his claim, which it says it passed on to his insurer to 
deal with. It did however apologise for providing incorrect contact details regarding Mr Gs 
guaranteed courtesy car provision. 
Sainsburys says Mr Gs insurer wouldnt cover him when he tried to add his new car to his 
policy. It says it shouldve checked if any of its other panel insurers would offer cover, but it 
failed to do so. It offered Mr G £50 compensation for this failing. 
Mr G thought hed been treated unfairly by Sainsburys and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Sainsburys isnt Mr Gs insurer and 
isnt responsible for the issues he raised about the handling of his claim. He thought 
Sainsburys apology and compensation payment was fair in acknowledging the inaccurate 
information it provided. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Im sorry Mr G and his family were involved in a collision, particularly as they were travelling 
to the airport to go on holiday. This must have been very distressing for them. 
Ive considered Mr Gs testimony in detail. He says he contacted Sainsburys breakdown 
service immediately after the collision. But he was told cover was only provided in the event 
of a mechanical breakdown. As his car was damaged as a result of a collision, no cover was 
available under this policy. He says the agent told him to call his broker or his insurer. 
Mr G says when he called his insurer, its agent told him to ring back in the morning. He was 
told he was speaking to the night shift, and they couldnt help. On the advice of the police, he 
says he then drove his car to the airport, where it was left for a week whilst he and his family 
went on holiday. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration. He felt let down, as he was in a stressful and potentially 
dangerous situation with his family on the side of a motorway. He thought he had cover in 
place to help him in an emergency and didnt think the agents he spoke to had helped. 
Ive read Mr Gs policy documents, including the motor breakdown cover he has in place. 
This confirms a road traffic collision isnt covered under his policy. This is what Mr G was told 
when he called after the collision. I dont think the agent he spoke to did anything wrong 
here. But in any case this isnt related to Sainsburys role as broker or administrator for his 
policy. The claims process is handled by his insurer(s).
Mr G refers to the Guaranteed Courtesy Car cover he paid extra for when he took out his 
policy. From the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) he received, I can see this 
guarantees the provision of a courtesy car for a period of 14 days. This includes where Mr 
Gs car is damaged as a result of a road traffic accident. I can see this cover is underwritten 
by a different insurer than the cover provided under his main policy.      
Ive thought about whether Sainsburys treated Mr G unfairly here. I dont think it did. He 
called his breakdown service and was correctly told assistance wasnt available in the event 
of a collision. He then contacted his insurer. After this he drove his car to the airport. Based 
on this I cant see that Sainsburys gave inaccurate information. 
Mr G does have guaranteed cover for a courtesy car in the event of an accident. However, 
he was on his way to the airport to catch a flight. This left a relatively short period of time to 
be able to organise a courtesy car. Im glad Mr G was able to get to the airport using his car 
and was able to continue with his family holiday. But based on what Ive read I cant see that 
Sainsburys treated him unfairly here. Or that it caused Mr G to miss out on a hire car to get 
him and his family to the airport.
Sainsburys isnt Mr Gs insurer. So, it isnt responsible for the issues Mr G highlights with the 
handling of his claim. This includes the provision of a courtesy car on his return to the UK, 
the settlement payment he was offered following the total loss decision, or the lack of a 
courtesy car under the optional cover he had in place. Mr G has raised a separate complaint 
dealing with some of these issues. I wont comment further on these points in my decision 
here.   
From the records provided I can see Mr G, on return from his holiday, contacted Sainsburys 
by phone on 12 August 2022. He rang three times to query a claim under his guaranteed 
courtesy car cover. Sainsburys says its agents gave incorrect contact information during 
these calls. Its appropriate that it apologised for this error, and I think its offer of £50 
compensation is fair.  
Mr G says he hired a car himself on 10 August 2022. For which he paid around £1,700. Im 
sorry Mr G incurred this cost. However, from what he says he arranged this before receiving incorrect contact information from Sainsburys agents. In any case Mr Gs insurer is 
responsible for any claims under his guaranteed courtesy car cover.
Having considered all of this, I think Sainsburys agents shouldve taken more care when Mr 
G called on 12 August 2022. But its apology and £50 compensation is fair in putting this 
right. I dont think Sainsburys treated Mr G unfairly or is responsible for the issues relating to 
the handling of his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman