DRN-4177361
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with Vitality Health Limiteds delay in handling her claim.
What happened
In June 2022 Miss R joined her employers private medical insurance policy, underwritten by 
Vitality. She was asked to declare any pre-existing conditions before the policy started.
Miss R made a claim on the policy in September 2022. Vitality looked into it, but they had 
concerns it related to a pre-existing condition because they found evidence that Miss R had 
sought medical attention for similar symptoms in January 2021. So they reviewed her 
application form and found the symptoms hadnt been declared. 
Miss R continually called for updates on the progress of her claim over the next few months, 
and she complained about the length of time it was taking, - but nothing moved forward. 
Then in December 2022 Vitality asked Miss R to obtain further medical evidence so they 
could look into her medical history in more detail.  
Unhappy with the delay, Miss R complained. Our investigator looked into the matter and said 
he thought it was reasonable for Vitality to look into a potential misrepresentation before 
reaching a decision on the claim. But he recommended Vitality paid £100 compensation to 
recognise their delays in asking for further information to move things forward. 
Miss R accepted the outcome, but Vitality disagreed. In summary they said: 
It was necessary to request a copy of Miss Rs application form to see what had been 
disclosed. And after checking the form, the claim was then referred to their medical 
underwriting team for further review.
They cant confirm or decline a claim until a full review of Miss Rs plan has taken 
place.
If Miss R had disclosed this medical information during her application, there would 
not have been any delay to her claim being assessed. They said we were asking 
them to compensate for an issue that was initiated by Miss Rs own omission on the 
application form.
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Vitality is entitled to investigate any concerns of potential 
misrepresentation and take necessary actions in line with CIDRA where necessary. But the 
relevant rules and industry guidelines say Vitality still needs to handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And I dont think thats happened here. Ill explain why: 
Vitality has explained it was necessary to review Miss Rs application form and then send the 
information to their medical underwriting team for a more in-depth review.  I agree this was a 
fair process to follow. But I think the time it took send the matter on to their underwriting 
team was unreasonable.
Miss R submitted her claim on 27 September 2022. Vitalitys internal notes confirm that by 
31 October 2022 theyd already established her condition may have been pre-existing before 
she joined the policy. But it wasnt until 2 December 2022 that the matter was referred to 
onto the medical underwriting team, following another one of Miss Rs calls to ask for an 
update. 
I dont think its reasonable for this to have taken a month to be referred to the underwriting 
team. Had Vitality asked for their opinion earlier, it would have been identified that further 
medical information was required, and the matter would have moved forward much sooner 
than it did.
Following this delay, the request for additional medical evidence then also wasnt made until 
29 December  which is another four weeks later. And three months since Miss R had 
originally submitted her claim. Im unable to say this is a reasonable timeframe.   
I can see Miss R called Vitality for an update several times throughout November and was 
told her claim was being looked in to. But there still wasnt any meaningful movement on the 
case despite all her chasers. Miss R called again several times in December to express her 
dissatisfaction at the delays. Its clear to me from this that the issue was causing her 
frustration. And additional stress and worry during an already difficult time with her health. 
Vitality challenged our recommendation to pay compensation for delays because the issue 
that requires additional time to investigate was caused by Miss Rs omission on her 
application form. But I dont think thats fair. The non-disclosure by Miss R doesnt mean 
Vitality's obligations under ICOBS to handle claims promptly no longer applies. 
I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator fairly reflects Vitalitys delay 
in moving the claim forward. And the impact this had on Miss R who was awaiting medical 
treatment. In addition to the continued efforts made by her to chase Vitality for an update to 
her claim. 
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited need to put things right by:
Paying £100 compensation to Miss R for the stress and inconvenience caused to her 
by the delay in progressing her claim, during an already difficult time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint against Vitality Health Limited and 
direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Georgina GillOmbudsman