DRN-3924925
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly turned down a claim for storm damage
on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had a home insurance policy with Zurich. In February 2022, Mr M contacted
Zurich to put in a claim for storm damage to a boundary wall. Zurich sent an engineer to
inspect the property and produce a report on the damage.
When Zurich reviewed the report, it turned down the claim. Zurich said the damage to the
wall was due to the design of the wall and the damage occurring over a period of time which
was excluded under the policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with Zurichs decision and complained. He also said Zurich had taken too
long to deal with the claim. Zurich reviewed the complaint and stood by the decision to
decline the claim. However, Zurich accepted claim could have been handled better and
offered £125 as compensation. Unhappy with Zurichs response to the complaint, Mr M
referred his complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt think
Zurich had shown the wall hadnt been built to the required standard and recommended
Zurich pay the claim. She also recommended Zurich increase the compensation to £325 due
to incorrectly declining the claim. Zurich didnt respond to our investigators outcome and so
she referred it to an ombudsman for a decision.
While the complaint was waiting for an ombudsman to consider it Zurich responded and
disagreed with our investigator. It said there was only one expert opinion on the cause of the
wall collapsing. And this supported that the damage had occurred over time and wasnt
caused by the storm.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2023 where I said:
Mr Ms policy covers him for certain insured events, one of them is storm
damage. The policy also excludes storm damage which is the result of wear, tear and
deterioration.
When deciding whether an insurer acted fairly by declining a claim for storm damage, we
consider three questions. Firstly, whether there is evidence there were storm conditions at
the time the damage was caused. Next, whether the damage is consistent with storm
damage and lastly whether the storm was the main reason for the damage. If were satisfied
that the answer to all three questions is yes then we would say the insurer wasnt fair to
decline the claim under storm cover.
Here, the first question isnt in dispute. Zurich is in agreement that there was storm
conditions around the time Mr Ms boundary wall suffered damage. The questions in dispute
are whether the damage is consistent with storm damage and whether the storm was the
main cause of the damage. So Ive considered whether Zurich has done enough to prove
that the damage isnt consistent with the storm and if so whether the storm wasnt the main
cause and acted fairly by applying the exclusion.
Zurich sent a surveyor to inspect the wall after the claim. In their report theyve
commented there not being other signs of storm damage in the area as they would expect.
In particular theyve said: There were no obvious signs of storm damage to the
surroundings with an old timber shed situated next to the collapsed wall which has been
unaffected, this is the same with the garden fencing which is still standing upright in the
same garden location. As there are other items in the area which you would expect to be
damaged by the storm if the wall had been, Im not persuaded the damage is consistent with
storm damage.
Ive also considered the third question and Im also not persuaded the storm is the main
reason for the damage. I say this because the report also says: The damage seems to be of
sustained from multiple weaknesses in both the design of the retaining wall and also the
gradual process loss of the wall due to frost expansion of the ground which has happened
over an extended period of time. Their report is also supported by photos and goes into
further detail as to why the storm isnt the main reason for the damage. From this report, Im
satisfied Zurich has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms as the three questions
considered havent been met.
I understand Mr M disputes this report but Ive not been provided with anything, other than
his comments, which disputes the findings in the report Zurich have provided. I also find the
report persuasive, particularly as there wasnt other damage you would expect if the storm
had caused damage to the wall. It therefore follows that Im not going to tell Zurich to pay the
claim.
I can also see that Zurich acknowledge there were errors in the claim handling and that it
didnt handle it as well as it should. Ive also considered Zurichs offer of £125 for these
errors and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable compensation for those errors. Therefore,
Zurich needs to pay Mr M £125 if not already done so.
Zurich didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M did and didnt accept it. In particular 
Mr M queried whether Id seen evidence hed sent in which also had photos of the wall. He 
also said he wasnt aware he needed to provide a report to prove his position. Mr M then 
sent in photos of the damage and surrounding area with his comments as to what caused 
the damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms response and additional evidence, but its not persuaded me to 
depart from the findings in my provisional decision. I would like to assure him that Ive 
reviewed everything thats been provided, Ive also received the most recent document with 
photos of the damage along with his explanation as to why its been caused by the storm. 
I understand Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and is disappointed with my decision. 
But Im not persuaded Zurich has acted unfairly by declining the claim. This because Zurich 
based its decision on an experts report. I referenced the key sections of the report in my 
provisional decision, and while Mr Ms photos and comments are helpful, Im more 
persuaded by the report Zurich has produced. I say this because while Mr Ms comments are 
helpful and do give another reason for the damage to the wall, Im not satisfied that is whats happened when taking into account the report from Zurich. Im therefore not going to depart 
from the findings in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. Zurich Insurance PLC needs to pay Mr M the £125 offered if not 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman