DRN-2745770
The complaint
Mr F complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him. 
What happened
Mr F was provided with three loans by Mr Lender between April and August 2014. The 
details of these are below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £250 1 25-Apr-14 09-May-14
2 £600 1 12-May-14 07-Aug-14
3 £1,000 6 09-Aug-14 09-Jan-17
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided employment and credit checks were 
carried out. It says that Mr Fs application showed a monthly income of £1,300 and that the 
credit check didnt raise any concerns. It says the first two loans were settled without any 
support and that when it was made aware of Mr Fs financial difficulties during the third loan 
it worked with him. In its final response letter Mr Lender offered a £25 voucher as a gesture 
of goodwill. It has since confirmed this offer is no longer in place.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think there was enough to say that 
the first loan shouldnt have been provided but he didnt think that Mr Lender should have 
provided Mr F with loans 2 and 3. He said the repayments for loans 2 and 3 represented a 
significant portion of Mr Fs income which meant there was a significant risk that Mr F 
wouldnt have been able to sustainably afford the repayments.
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view. It noted the reason for upholding was that the 
loan repayments represented a significant amount of Mr Fs income. It said that it had shown 
evidence of its income and expenditure assessments carried out before the loans were 
provided and that these showed the loans were affordable for Mr F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. The loans in this 
complaint were provided in 2014 and the complaint raised in late 2020. However, I have 
nothing to suggest that Mr F was reasonably aware of his cause for complaint more than 
three years before he raised his concerns about the lending.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs first loan was for £250 repayable in one instalment of £337.50 the following month. 
Before the loan was provided information about Mr Fs income and expenses was gathered 
and a credit check carried out. As this was Mr Fs first loan I find that these checks were 
proportionate. As the income and expenditure check suggested the loan was affordable and 
the credit check didnt raise any concerns, I do not find it was unreasonable that Mr F was 
provided with this loan.
Mr F repaid his first loan on time and took out a second loan three days later. The second 
loan was for a higher amount (£600) with an amount of £780 due to be repaid a month later. 
Although this was still only the second loan Mr F had taken out with Mr Lender and he had 
repaid the first loan, I think that this loan raises concerns. I say this because Mr F took out 
the second loan only a few days after repaying the first and the repayment amount was for a 
significant proportion of his income. Based on the information provided by Mr F his monthly 
income was £1,300 and his expenses were £350. Mr Fs expenses figure had reduced by 
£150 from the previous assessment less than a month earlier as there was no longer an 
amount included for credit commitments and I think further checks should have been carried 
out to ensure this was accurate. The information at this time suggested Mr F had a disposable income of £950 and as the repayment amount was £780 this could have been 
considered affordable. However, it would leave little spare and given the amount of the loan 
compared to Mr Fs income and the reduction in the expenses amount I think Mr Lender 
should have been concerned that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable.
Had further checks been carried out before loan 2 was provided, Mr Lender would have 
realised that Mr F did still have other outstanding credit commitments at the time and was 
making use of other short term loan providers. Given this I dont think this loan was 
sustainably affordable for Mr F. 
Mr F rolled over his second loan and then took out a third loan the day that the second loan 
was repaid. I note the comment Mr Lender has made about this being an instalment loan. 
However, the instalments were still for a significant portion of Mr Fs income. Given Mr Fs 
borrowing pattern and duration over which he was required to make the repayments, I do not 
find that Mr Lender should have considered this loan sustainably affordable for Mr F.
Overall, I find that Mr Lender should have been concerned that loans 2 and 3 werent 
sustainably affordable for Mr F. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Mr Lender should:
refund Mr F the interest and charges he paid on loans 2 and 3 along with 8% simple 
interest* on the individual payments from the date of payment to the date the 
complaint is settled; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in relation to loans 2 and 3. PDL Finance 
Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the actions set out above to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman