DRN-2862923
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a subsidence 
claim he made under his home insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include its appointed agents.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B noticed his garage was pulling away from his property and notified Lloyds. 
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster who specialises in subsidence claims to investigate the 
cause of the damage.
The loss adjuster arranged for site investigations at the property. These included soil and 
root analysis, and a drains survey which identified some defects to the drainage system. It 
was determined from the results that the cause of the damage was subsidence linked to clay 
shrinkage in the soil. It was also determined that the roots from nearby trees were a likely 
intervening cause of the clay shrinkage, so a scope of works was drawn up to treat the 
vegetation.
Some of the vegetation was owned by the local authority, so arrangements were made to 
maintain and remove it as necessary. Following the works a period of monitoring 
commenced in order to ensure the ground movement had stabilised. This ended in May 
2020. 
A further 3-month period of monitoring was instructed in July 2020 after which the claim was 
reviewed. Lloyds then confirmed repairs could begin, starting with the drains, around 
October 2020.
Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds actions and complained. In summary he said:
He was unhappy with the overall time taken to progress the claim.
He was unhappy with the lack of communication from the loss adjuster.
He felt the number of security questions asked by the loss adjuster when he called 
for an update was excessive.
Lloyds responded to Mr B. It didnt accept there were delays in the claim and said its agents 
had kept Mr B updated. It said the claim had progressed as planned given its relative 
complexity, and that the security questions asked werent excessive and were necessary to 
protect his personal data.
Mr B didnt agree with Lloyds response and referred the complaint to our service. He said 
the whole episode has caused an impact to his health due to the worry and stress and 
wanted compensation from Lloyds for this.
Our investigator looked at everything and concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They 
concluded that the claim had progressed as planned. And they were satisfied that Lloyds 
had provided sufficient updates to Mr B. So they didnt recommend Lloyds pay him any 
compensation.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that by now Lloyds should have a clear strategy about how to go 
about the repairs and that it should have given him clear timescales for the start time and 
completion of works. He maintained that the communication from Lloyds had been poor.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am considering matters from the time Mr B first notified Lloyds of the claim 
in July 2019, up to the point that Lloyds issued Mr B with its final response on 21 September 
2020. I understand that since this time Mr B has raised further concerns with Lloyds 
including about some drain repairs it has carried out. But this is being considered as a 
separate matter to this complaint.
Claim progress
Mr Bs main concern appears to be the length of time its taken for the claim to get to this 
stage. So Ive weighed up whats happened on the claim so far against what I would find to 
be reasonable for a claim of this nature and complexity. 
Having considered everything, I dont find the overall time taken on this subsidence claim to 
be unusual or excessive. It seems that matters have progressed from the initial site 
investigations and mitigation measures were carried out in liaison with the local authorities. 
And I think it was reasonable for additional monitoring to be requested if the loss adjuster 
wasnt in a position to confirm the ground movement had stabilised. 
Therefore I cannot reasonably find in Mr Bs favour about the overall time taken to progress 
this claim.
I do acknowledge Mr Bs comments about the claim lacking an end date, but for the period I 
am considering, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have provided one at this stage. I 
say this because the full extent of repairs still needed to be scoped once the property had 
stabilised. And both parties would need to agree to this scope of works before the claim 
could proceed. So it wouldnt be reasonable for Lloyds to commit to an end date without a 
clear scope of repairs. 
Ive not been party to any ongoing discussion about the scope of repairs as this would fall 
outside the dates being considered in my decision. But once the scope has been agreed 
between the parties, I would then expect the loss adjuster to set out a realistic timescale for 
the completion of works to Mr B.Communication
Lloyds has said that Mr B wont answer its security questions, so it is unable to provide him 
with any updates over the phone. It has therefore provided updates by email.
I dont find Lloyds actions in requesting security information on calls unreasonable.               
I appreciate that Mr B feels the number of questions he is being asked is excessive, but 
ultimately its down to Lloyds to determine how many security questions it asks as long as 
the required standards for data protection are met.
Ive considered how Lloyds have communicated overall on the claim. I can see there was a 
gap between February 2020 and April 2020 where Mr B chased Lloyds for an update. I can 
also see there was some queries from Mr B about why the additional monitoring was 
required. But I can see that Lloyds arranged each time for a response to be provided by the 
appropriate agents. And Lloyds has provided a number of emails which show updates 
provided to Mr B throughout the claims history.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds has kept Mr B updated on the important steps in the claim. It 
had a helpline available for Mr B to get updates over the phone, but he chose to not make 
use of this. So I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for any inconvenience caused as Im 
satisfied there were further steps Mr B could have taken to minimise the impact here.
Compensation
Mr B has requested a significant amount of compensation from Lloyds. He says its handling 
of the claim has had a detrimental impact to his health.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs situation and the impact this claim has had on his health. But in 
order to award compensation, I would need to be persuaded that Lloyds had made an error 
in its handling of the claim or caused an avoidable delay. And that the error or delay resulted 
in some detriment to Mr B.
Ive previously acknowledged there was a two-month gap in communication to Mr B between 
February and April 2020. But the evidence shows Lloyds were continuing to progress the 
claim in the background by attending to the vegetation and arranging level monitoring of the 
site. So I cant fairly say that this delay in communication led to any additional impact to Mr B 
or that it delayed the overall progression of the claim.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence to show Lloyds has either caused an error or contributed 
to an avoidable delay here, so whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, 
I find no grounds to consider an award for compensation.
I understand Mr B may have ongoing concerns with the claim, but as I set out above Im 
considering matters up to Lloyds final response of 21 September 2020. I havent seen 
anything in this period which caused an undue delay or impact to Mr B, so for these reasons 
I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman