DRN-4216109
The complaint
Miss B complains that PrePay Technologies Limited treated her unfairly when she says her
card was stolen.
What happened
Miss B held an account with PrePay. She says on the morning of 18 January 2023 her card
was stolen by her ex-partner. Four transactions were made using the card which Miss B
says werent her. Three of the payments were contactless and the fourth was authenticated
by Chip and PIN. The four payments totalled £146.50.
In the call to PrePay when Miss B reported the theft / unauthorised use she says she
received notifications of the payments and used the app to freeze the card. During the same
call PrePay fully blocked the stolen card and ordered a replacement. But they said they
couldnt investigate the disputed transactions until Miss B agreed to pay their £20
administration fee.
Miss B wasnt prepared to pay and complained. PrePay maintained their position and the
matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators looked into it and recommended
that the complaint should be upheld. In summary she didnt think PrePay had acted fairly or
that Miss B should be held liable for the transactions. She recommended that PrePay
provide a refund of the £146.50 plus 8% simple interest, along with £100 compensation for
the trouble and upset caused.
Miss B accepted this outcome but PrePay didnt. As agreement couldnt be found, the
complaint was passed to me to decide. In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which 
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator, Ill
explain why.
The disputed transactions all took place on the morning of 18 January 2023. And Miss B
called PrePay to report them at 10.21am the same day. During the initial call Miss B says:
My card was stolen this morning and Ive had notification that the card has been used. So,
Ive frozen my card via the app but I need to cancel it
Further to this when the call handler asks for her account number, she says that she needs
to log in to the app to access it as she doesnt have the card. Later in the same call Miss B
says she is reading from the app when highlighting the transactions she was disputing. She
also explained that she had recorded her PIN in her phone and that her ex-partner would
know how to access her phone (but doesnt say that she wasnt in possession of her phone
at that time).
Later the same day, after Miss B has complained about the £20 fee she was called back by
a manager. As part of the security checks he conducted at the start of the call, he says: The
number is the one Ive called.
This implies that the manager had called the number that PrePay had on file for Miss B. And
Miss Bs own words in the previous call indicate that she had received a notification of the
spending on the app, as well as logged in to it during the call to share the details with the call
handler. On balance, I think that Miss B had her phone that morning whilst reporting the
disputed transactions.
The reason this is relevant is because Miss B later told our service that her ex-partner also
took her phone. The evidence shes provided of her report to the police (dated 19 January
2023) also includes that the phone was stolen. But if the phone had been stolen along with
the card, its unclear how Miss B would have been able to use it to receive the notifications
and to log in to the app.
I asked our Investigator to speak to Miss B and to seek an explanation for this discrepancy in
what shed said. Miss B initially said she couldnt remember which phone shed used to call
PrePay or how shed logged in on the app to freeze her card. She then said that her memory
had been jogged and her phone had been returned to her two days later by the police which
is what had allowed her to see the notifications and to freeze her card.
The impact of all of this is that I dont find Miss Bs testimony to be credible. The payments
took place on 18 January 2023 and were reported the same morning. But Miss B has said
that her phone was taken and she got it back two days later before then reporting the
payments to PrePay. Whilst I appreciate memories can fade with time, there are some major
inconsistencies in what Miss B has said.
Im also mindful that the disputed spending isnt necessarily what might be expected of
unauthorised use. It didnt use the entirety of the available balance and included a payment
of a low value (£1.50). On balance, I think its most likely that Miss B either authorised or
gave permission for someone else to make the payments she is disputing.
There therefore isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell PrePay to refund the disputed
transactions. It also follows that whilst I may not agree with PrePay seeking to apply a fee in
order to consider unauthorised transactions, in the wider circumstances of this complaint, I
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to pay compensation for the impact of
doing so.
Neither PrePay nor Miss B responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further information or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman