DRN-1568685
The complaint
Mr A complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds service under his mobile phone 
insurance. My references to Assurant include its agents.
 
What happened
Mr A has mobile phone insurance through his bank account, Assurant is the insurer.
In November 2019 Mr A claimed for the loss of his phone which Assurant accepted. In 
December 2019 Mr A called Assurant as hed tried to sell another of his phones to an online 
retailer. The retailer had run a check on the phone and told Mr A the phone he was trying to 
sell had already been claimed for, a fraud indicator had come up and the retailer said it was 
going to destroy the phone in 14 days as it couldnt be sold.
Assurant accepted it had incorrectly blacklisted the phone Mr A was trying to sell, which had 
previously been registered on the policy. It should have blacklisted the lost phone Mr A had 
successfully claimed for on the policy. Within a week Assurant removed the incorrect 
blacklisting and paid Mr A £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr A complained to us. Originally hed asked Assurant to pay him the value of the phone he 
couldnt sell (£215) but the retailer had now paid him the phones value. Mr A wants more 
compensation for the trouble and upset Assurants mistake caused.
Our investigator recommended Assurant pay Mr A an additional £100 compensation.
Neither Mr A or Assurant agree and both want an ombudsmans decision. Mr A didnt think 
the additional £100 was enough and Assurant said it corrected its mistake quickly and the 
£50 it had already paid was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant accepts it made a mistake which caused Mr A distress and inconvenience. I need 
to decide whether the £50 compensation it paid was fair and reasonable, and I dont think it 
was. But I think the additional £100 compensation our investigator recommended is fair. 
So I partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I accept that when once Assurant knew it had made a mistake it removed the incorrect  
blacklisting from the phone in a few days, which is a reasonable timescale. But I think Mr A 
had considerable trouble and upset due to its error.
Mr A had the shock of being told by the retailer that there was a fraud indicator on the phone 
and his phone would be destroyed (although it wasnt). He had to call Assurant several times 
to try to find out what the problem was and how it could be resolved. He was given 
contradictory information by Assurant about whether a claim had been incorrectly registered 
against the phone he was trying to sell which confused him. He had to liaise with the retailer 
about the situation. He told Assurant in one of the calls that hed contacted the police to try 
to get advice about there being a fraud indicator on the phone.
Also, Mr A didnt get the money for the phone from the retailer for about a month. Its 
reasonable for me to think its probable that if Assurant hadnt made the mistake the retailer 
would have paid Mr A sooner.
Mr As upset and inconvenience would have been avoided if Assurant hadnt made the 
mistake. Overall I think £150 in total is a fair amount to acknowledge the impact on Mr A.
Putting things right
Assurant must pay Mr A an additional £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £100 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience in addition to the £50 its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman