DRN-1437189
 
The complaint
Mr R says Canada Square Operations Limited (Egg) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in October 2002. The policy was 
added to Mr Rs credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think Egg had made the costs of the 
policy clear. And if it had done, then Mr R wouldnt have bought it because he had no need 
of it  he had other means of protecting himself. Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint because:
The information Egg gave Mr R about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. This is because Mr R wouldve needed to keep paying the premiums 
during a claim, which would reduce the real value of the policy benefit below the level 
that Egg says it made clear within its documentation.
 
I think this would have mattered to Mr R as he doesnt appear to have had a strong 
need for the policy  he says he had other ways to meet the credit card repayments 
for a while without the policy. Mr R told us he had a good level of sick pay at work  
six months full pay in the event he couldnt work due to an accident or sickness  
and I find his testimony plausible in view of his employer. He also told us he had 
significant savings that hed accrued over a number of years that he couldve used. 
So I dont think hed still have wanted to take out the policy if hed better understood 
its cost and limited benefit to him.
 
I think Mr R has lost out as a result of Egg's failings in this case, because I dont think he 
wouldve taken out the policy if hed been properly informed.
Ive taken into account Eggs comments, but they dont change my conclusion. Putting things right
Canada Square Operations Limited should put Mr R in the financial position hed be in now if 
he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already 
and: 
 
A. Canada Square Operations Limited should find out how much Mr R would owe on his 
credit card if the policy hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI 
premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also 
remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any 
interest added to those charges. Canada Square Operations Limited should then 
refund the difference between what Mr R owes and what he would have owed. If Mr 
R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square Operations Limited 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
B. If  when Canada Square Operations Limited works out what Mr R would have owed 
each month without PPI  Mr R paid more than enough to clear his balance, Canada 
Square Operations Limited should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr R paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr R wouldve owed 
Canada Square Operations Limited something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
 
C. Canada Square Operations Limited should tell Mr R what its done to work out A and 
B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square Operations Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Canada Square Operations Limited must give Mr R a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I require Canada Square 
Operations Limited to pay Mr R compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman