DRN-4244446
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr R had a travel insurance policy underwritten by Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited 
(Admiral). 
He made a claim for the cancellation of his holiday due to his passport being stolen. Initially 
Mr R told Admiral he had left his passport in the letterbox of his house door and the front 
door was faulty. 
Admiral declined the claim because they didnt think he had taken all reasonable efforts to 
prevent his loss. Mr R then said he had made a mistake and provided evidence to show the 
door was actually repaired two weeks before the theft. But Admiral said they could only take 
Mr Rs first answer and their decision to decline cover remained. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He upheld the complaint and said he didnt 
think it was fair Admiral had declined the claim because theyd only relied on Mr Rs first 
account of the circumstances and ignored contrary evidence. He said Admiral should 
reassess Mr Rs claim. 
Mr R didnt think it was fair that Admiral reassess the claim. He said we thought the reason 
theyd relied on to decline his claim was unfair, so they shouldnt be given another 
opportunity to look for further reasons. Our investigator explained there wasnt enough 
information to ask Admiral to pay the claim. 
Mr R went on to agree with the investigators view that it was fair for his claim to be 
reassessed. But he requested Admiral gave him its answer in a timely manner and based on 
the evidence available. Admiral agreed to reassess his claim as a priority. 
Mr R didnt hear from Admiral after four weeks, so he came back to us and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
So the case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Admiral has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I appreciate Admirals claim decline was based on the initial answers Mr R provided during 
their telephone interview. At that stage I think it was fair for them to decline his claim. 
However, I dont think Admiral acted fairly when Mr R provided further evidence about the 
repair of his door. In the absence of a faulty door, I think its unreasonable for Admiral to still 
conclude Mr R hadnt taken all reasonable efforts to prevent his loss. So I agree with our 
investigator that Mr Rs claim should be reassessed.
I understand Mr Rs point that Admiral has already had the opportunity to assess his claim, 
but I dont think there is enough information to fairly ask Admiral to pay the claim at this 
stage. So asking them to reassess is reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy that he hasnt heard from Admiral yet and he wanted things 
resolved by now. But the reassessment of his claim may take Admiral some time and I dont 
think the three month timescale so far (following our investigators recommendations) is 
unreasonable. 
However, I do expect Admiral to move things forward promptly following Mr Rs acceptance 
of my final decision. If it takes longer than our usual 28 day timeframe, then I think Admiral 
should provide Mr R with a meaningful update that includes a timescale when hell receive 
the answer on the reassessment on his claim.  Then if Mr R is unhappy with what Admiral 
does, he can raise a separate complaint with them.
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited need to put things right by:
Reassessing Mr Rs claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
If this takes longer than 28 days, Admiral must give Mr R a meaningful update setting 
out the timeframe when he will receive the answer on his claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman