DRN-1269217
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) withdrew his agreed overdraft without 
providing notice and has demanded repayment. He would like it re-instated to give him more 
time to clear the debt.
What happened
Mr S opened a Student Additions Account with Barclays in 2010. He agreed an overdraft of 
£1,500 in March 2012 which had no interest charges. In 2016 Mr S says he told Barclays he 
was returning to university and gave them his new student address but it continued to write 
to his home address. Mr S said he told Barclays about his student address on several 
occasions. 
The terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the overdraft required some level of payment credit to 
be made into the account on a regular basis. The account itself required that £500 per 
academic term or £1,500 per year be paid into it. Mr S stopped making payments into the 
account in August 2018 with the balance just inside his overdraft limit. 
Barclays wrote to Mr S home address on 28 April 2019 advising regular payments needed to 
be made into the account or the overdraft facility could be withdrawn. The letter provided 30 
days notice of withdrawal of the overdraft if action wasnt taken. Barclays wrote again on 5 
May 2019 giving 21 days notice, and again on 26 May 2019 requesting repayment of the 
overdraft. Barclays says the letters were also provided through the mobile banking app. Mr S 
says he didnt receive them.
Barclays began contacting Mr S to arrange for the debt to be repaid and he made a 
complaint. Barclays said it had no record of Mr S notifying it of a new address. But agreed 
there could have been an error and paid £50 in compensation for any inconvenience this 
may have caused. But it said the withdrawal of the overdraft was correct and couldnt be 
reversed as the terms of the account hadnt been kept to. Barclays said Mr S should liaise 
with it to agree a formal repayment plan.  
Mr S wasnt happy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked in to it. 
He didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He said the T&Cs of the overdraft were clear in requiring 
regular payments which hadnt been made. The T&Cs also said the overdraft was repayable 
on demand. And that whilst Barclays would try to give notice, it didnt have to. He said 
Barclays had provided notice of its intention to withdraw the overdraft by sending both letters 
in the post and via the mobile banking app. As such Barclays hadnt treated Mr S unfairly as 
it had done more than required under the T&Cs.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt know about the requirement to make payments into the 
account. He said if Barclays had advised him about it he would have done so. He said he 
always checked notifications on the banking app but hadnt seen any about the overdraft and 
asked to see proof of them. He asked why Barclays hadnt sent him text messages or called 
him like they did about other banking matters. Our investigator said this didnt change his view as Barclays had acted in line with the T&Cs 
and could require repayment of the overdraft at any time.
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am not upholding the 
complaint.
I know Mr S feels strongly about this and that my decision will disappoint him, but I dont 
think Barclays have done anything wrong and it hasnt treated him unfairly or unreasonably. 
As a business a bank doesnt have to provide credit to customers and when it does it will be 
subject to the banks T&Cs. Barclays required regular payments into the account or the 
overdraft facility could be withdrawn without notice:
You can make payments up to this limit whenever needed, but you should make 
regular payments into your account so that the amount you owe is reduced. The 
overdraft is repayable on demand. Wherever possible, we will give you advance notice 
of repayment but we do not have to give advance notice.
Whilst notice wasnt required I think Barclays did provide it. Mr S has strongly argued that 
failure to notify him caused the problem and Barclays should have tried other methods of 
contacting him. Possibly they could have. But the point here is that Barclays could require 
repayment at anytime without notice if the T&Cs of the account and overdraft werent kept 
to. 
Unfortunately they werent and the cause of problem was the failure to make any payments 
into the account between September 2018 and May 2019. Mr S had operated an overdraft 
on the account since November 2010. Barclays wrote confirming the T&Cs on 20 March 
2012 when the overdraft limit was increased at Mr Ss request. So I think it is reasonable to 
believe he would have been aware of these requirements.
Barclays has shown evidence that the letters were made available on the mobile banking 
app and evidence that Mr S logged on to the app frequently, including in the days after the 
letters were added. 
Mr S says he rang Barclays about his address several times and that he didnt return to his 
old address for around two years. So he didnt receive any mail from Barclays for some 
considerable time. As he held three accounts with Barclays I am surprised he didnt take 
further action to resolve this. It appears he could have updated his contact details via the 
mobile app which he did make use of.
Barclays accept there may have been an issue with updating Mr S postal address, despite 
having no record of it being notified of it until Mr S made his complaint. It accepted the 
possibility of an error here and paid £50 for the inconvenience this may have caused. I think 
this is reasonable and wont be asking Barclays to do any more.
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman