DRN-1394534
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) following 
a chargeback claim he raised regarding a payment  to a merchant I shall call POF. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr C and Santander, so there is no need for me to repeat them in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. 
On 2 November 2019 a payment of £38.70 was taken from Mr Cs account by POF. Mr C 
had an issue with the payment and reported the matter to Santander on 14 November and 
asked for a full refund. But on 19 November POF refunded the £38.70 to Mr Cs account.
On the 25 November Mr C spoke with Santanders complaints team who was unaware that 
Mr C had been refunded, and asked again that he provide previously requested information. 
In their follow up letter they also provided him with a telephone number for POF which was in 
America. Santander also recognised that they had provided inaccurate information during 
the telephone call and paid Mr C £20 as a gesture of goodwill which he accepted.
Mr C says he rang the telephone number and incurred costs of £30, but he has not been 
able to provide any evidence of that, although Santander have said they would look at that if 
he could.
Mr C was also unhappy that a representative of Santander said they had tried to contact him 
on a particular day, but he had no record of it. As such he felt Santander was lying.
Except for the issue resulting in the payment of £20 Santander didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Our investigator agreed. Mr C didnt agree with that and asked that the 
complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  So I look at the 
issues raised and then consider all the available evidence. I take into account both sides 
views in considering whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C. 
I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats 
what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Santander has done anything wrong. 
Ill explain why.A chargeback claim is a process by which some disputes are resolved between card issuer, 
in this case Santander, and merchants under the relevant card scheme rules. 
The chargeback rules arent set by Santander. Those rules are set by the card provider, 
whose symbol is on the card. In this case it is Visa. That card provider has an agreement 
with lots of banks as to how its cards are used. The agreement also covers when Santander 
can try to make a chargeback for its customers, to try to get the money spent on a card 
back. Those rules are quite strict, and Santander cant change them. Making a chargeback 
request just means Santander will ask for the money back. It doesnt mean it will get it. 
Santander isnt required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction to be reversed, but 
they can do so if they think its likely to succeed. We generally say its good practice for a 
card provider it to try one if theres a reasonable prospect of success. Equally, if Santander 
thinks the chargeback is likely to be rejected by the card provider then they dont have to 
raise it. 
In Mr Cs case a chargeback claim wasnt raised because POF refunded him the money. 
They did so within 5 days. I know Mr C feels Santander should have refunded him 
immediately but I havent seen anything to suggest they must. As I explained above 
Santander can decide whether to raise the claim or not and it appears that here the refund 
was made before they got that far because they were waiting for some further information 
from Mr C. So I cant say they have done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr C feels Santander were lying to him about calling him, but the evidence 
provided shows Santander did try to make calls to him, so I am satisfied they are not.
So, although Mr C will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman