DRN-3592245
The complaint
Ms G complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited wouldnt offer her a new 
interest rate on her mortgage, or allow her to convert it back to repayment terms. 
What happened
Ms G has a mortgage with Kensington. In 2005 she borrowed around £110,000 over a 25 
year term, initially on repayment terms, though she later converted the mortgage to interest 
only. The mortgage was on Kensingtons variable rate (the KVR) plus a 0.69% premium, 
capped to 6.34%, until November 2008. From then on, it was on the KVR plus 1.3% with no 
cap. 
The mortgage terms and conditions say that the KVR is a variable rate, but will always be at 
least 1%, but no more than 3%, above LIBOR. This means that Ms Gs mortgage does not 
track the LIBOR rate directly, but her interest rate has been between 2.3% and 4.3% above 
LIBOR from 1 December 2008.
In June 2020, she asked Kensington for a new lower interest rate. She says that she was 
finding it difficult to manage the payments (though was not in arrears) and rather than take a 
coronavirus payment deferral, she would rather reduce the interest rate if possible. 
Kensington said it had no new rates available to Ms G. It recommended Ms G seek 
independent financial advice to explore moving her mortgage elsewhere or taking a new 
mortgage with Kensington. Ms G wasnt happy with this, so she complained. She also wants 
Kensington to convert the mortgage back to repayment terms, as shes concerned she has 
no means of repaying the capital at the end of the term if it stays on interest only. 
Later, in October 2020, Kensington wrote to Ms G saying that it could not offer her a new 
rate but that she might want to explore whether she could move her mortgage to another 
lender, and pointed her to sources of independent mortgage advice.
In November 2020, Ms G called Kensington to ask about converting the mortgage from 
interest only to repayment. She also asked again about a new interest rate. Kensingtons 
notes record that it told her she would have to make an application to convert the mortgage 
to repayment, and that it couldnt offer a new interest rate.
In October 2021, Kensington wrote to Ms G inviting her to take a new interest rate. It offered 
a variable rate of 3.99% above the Kensington Standard Rate (KSR), which was in turn 
linked to the Bank of England base rate. As base rate was 0.1% at the time, Kensington 
offered Ms G a variable rate of 4.09%. Ms G did not accept that offer.
In March 2022, Kensington transferred the mortgage to another lender.
Ms G complained to us. She said her current interest rate was 4.5% and she was finding it 
difficult to maintain the payments. She wanted Kensington to offer her a lower interest rate.
Our investigator said Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. He said Kensington should have 
offered Ms G a new interest rate when she asked for one in June 2020. Kensington did not 
agree, so the complaint comes to me for a decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the health and other difficulties Ms G has faced in recent years.
Ive looked carefully at what has happened here to decide whether I think Kensington has 
treated her fairly.
The first thing to say is that applying for a new interest rate is separate to converting the 
mortgage back to repayment terms.
When Ms G discussed converting the mortgage with Kensington in November 2020, it didnt 
say this wasnt possible  it said Ms G would need to make a formal application so that 
Kensington could check whether this was appropriate for her. 
I think this was reasonable. I understand why Ms G wanted to convert the mortgage back  
not least because shes concerned that she otherwise doesnt have a way of repaying the 
capital at the end of the term. And so its sensible that she wanted to switch to repayment 
terms to avoid this problem. But moving the mortgage to repayment means that Ms G would 
have to pay a portion of the capital each month as well as the interest. 
This would substantially increase her monthly payments. And therefore its reasonable for 
Kensington to want to make sure this is affordable for her before committing her to those 
higher payments. This is why an application was necessary  so that Ms G could provide full 
information about her circumstances and Kensington could make an assessment. I dont 
think Kensington treated her unfairly in saying that a full application would be needed. 
Ms Gs mortgage has now been moved to a new lender. Shes recently told our investigator 
that increases in interest rates have made things more difficult for her so it may be that shes 
no longer in a position to convert the mortgage to repayment terms. But if this is something 
she still wants to do, it may be something she can discuss with the new lender.
Ms G also doesnt think its fair that the mortgage has been moved. But this is something 
Kensington is allowed to do under the terms and conditions. So I dont think I can fairly find 
that it wasnt entitled to move the mortgage to the new lender.
Ill turn now to the question of the interest rate. Ms Gs mortgage has been on the KVR, plus 
a premium, since the start. This is what the mortgage offer says would happen, and 
therefore the mortgage has operated as it always should have done.
More recently, Ms G asked Kensington to reduce her interest rate. Theres no obligation on a 
lender to offer new rates to its customers  and, until 2017, Kensington didnt do so. 
But in 2017 Kensington started offering new fixed interest rates to some  though not all  
customers. In general, its willing to offer new fixed rates (subject to other criteria) to 
customers whose mortgages were taken out since 2010  but not to customers with older 
mortgages.
This is because, as part of its business model, Kensington securitises its mortgages. This 
means it offers the beneficial interest in groups of loans to third party investors to raise funds for its ongoing mortgage business. This is a normal and legitimate feature of the mortgage 
industry and its not inherently unfair that Kensington operates its business in this way.
Kensington says that one consequence of this is that customers whose mortgages were 
taken out before 2010  when lending standards were very different to those of today  can 
not be offered new interest rates. Thats because changes to their existing mortgages cant 
be made under the terms of the securitisations. And because the loans were originally lent 
under less strict lending standards, it cant move them to new securitisations either. 
Customers in Ms Gs position therefore must remain on their existing interest rate, move 
their mortgage to another lender, or re-apply to Kensington as a new borrower and take a 
new mortgage to replace the old one. 
Ms G wasnt in a position to move to another lender. She has an interest only mortgage with 
no repayment strategy. Given what shes told us about her financial and other circumstances 
I think its unlikely she would have been in a position to successfully apply to another lender 
for a mortgage on repayment terms. This means she had no option but to remain with 
Kensington.
Ive said that theres no obligation on a lender to offer new interest rates to its customers. 
Before 2017, when Kensington had no rates available at all, Ms G was in the same position 
as all other customers and it therefore wasnt unfair that no rates were available to her.
However, when she asked Kensington about changing her interest rate in June 2020, things 
had changed. By then, Kensington did offer rates to some new customers. So I need to 
decide whether it was fair that it still didnt make any available to Ms G.
In thinking about this, Ive taken into account the rules of mortgage regulation, to be found in 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook under the heading MCOB.
In particular, MCOB 11.8.1 E (the E means its an evidential provision, not a rule) says that 
where a borrower is unable to move their mortgage to a new lender (as Ms G was), their 
existing lender
should not (for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less favourably than 
it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on 
as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6 is another part of the FCA Handbook, and says that a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
As MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision, it means that conduct of the sort set out in the 
provision might show unfairness in some circumstances  but equally in other circumstances 
it might not. In my view, the provision is aimed at ensuring that borrowers who cannot shop 
around for a better deal are not taken advantage of and treated less favourably than other 
borrowers who can do so.
At the time Ms G asked about a rate, Kensington would offer a new interest rate to a 
customer whose loan was taken out after 2010, who had an acceptable loan to value (at the 
time, below 85%), and who met the following criteria:
Not currently in arrears.No arrears equivalent to one months payment or more in the last twelve months.
No other amounts outstanding. 
Kensington doesnt think MCOB 11.8.1 E applies in this situation, because it doesnt think 
Ms G has similar characteristics to customers to whom it does offer a rate  because of the 
circumstances in which, and when, their mortgages were taken out. It points out that the 
underwriting requirements were very different and that more recent customers had to meet 
the standards now in place before getting a mortgage, whereas Ms G did not. And for the 
same reasons as she cant move her mortgage to another lender, she wouldnt meet the 
standards now in place with Kensington.
Ive taken this into account. But I dont think this is a relevant consideration. I think whats 
required for the purposes of MCOB 11.8.1 E is a comparison of characteristics as they are at 
the time of the application  in other words, did Ms G have similar characteristics, in June 
2020, to customers who would have been offered a rate?
I say that because I dont think Ms Gs circumstances fifteen years earlier, or Kensingtons 
lending criteria at that time, are relevant to her situation in 2020. I think the provision is 
referring to characteristics at the time of the comparison. 
And I also note that borrowers circumstances can change over time, after their loans have 
been taken out. A customer who took out a mortgage in (say) 2015, who passed 
Kensingtons lending criteria at the time of application but whose circumstances have since 
changed such that they would no longer pass those criteria in 2020 would still have been 
offered a rate in 2020 as long as they were not in arrears. Whereas Ms G would not.
Whats relevant is whether, at the time of her application, Ms G had similar characteristics to 
other borrowers who would be eligible for a new interest rate  and whether, if she did, 
refusing her a rate would tend to show unfairness of the sort envisaged by MCOB 11.8.1 E.
Ive also taken into account Kensingtons reasons for using the date the mortgage was taken 
out as a reason to refuse a new interest rate. As Ive said, thats based on its business 
model of securitisation. Securitisation is not an unusual business model and not inherently 
unfair. 
However, its also relevant to note that this is not something Ms G was aware of or had any 
control over. And I dont think it can be said to amount to a characteristic of Ms G or her 
mortgage  its something done to her mortgage by Kensington. I dont therefore think that 
its a relevant consideration for the purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 11.8.1 
E. Its a matter for Kensingtons commercial judgement how it chooses to structure its 
business. But if  as I think is the case here  that potentially results in unfairness in an 
individual case, thats a matter for me.
Weve asked Kensington to provide a full history of Ms Gs mortgage but it hasnt done so. 
Its just provided a partial set of statements. Based on those statements, Ive reconstructed 
as best I can Ms Gs payment history. 
From that, I can see that Ms G missed three monthly payments in 2018, though as she 
overpaid in other months it wasnt until January 2019, when she made a partial payment, 
that her mortgage was in arrears of more than one months payment. As she then underpaid 
for the next few months (other than February 2019), the arrears reached the equivalent of 
between two and three months payments by April. From May onwards, Ms G then overpaid 
each month and by paying a lump sum in August 2019 she cleared the remaining arrears. 
Thereafter she continued to overpay slightly each month and the mortgage moved into credit.
Ive said that I dont think the date Ms G took out her mortgage is a characteristic for the 
purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 11.8.1 E. Nor is the fact that Kensington 
has securitised her mortgage in a particular way. Whats relevant are Ms Gs characteristics 
at the time she asked to reduce her interest rate.
I think, acting fairly, at that time Kensington ought to have recognised MCOB 11.8.1 E might 
be relevant to her circumstances and enquired into them more carefully. Had it done so, it 
would have recognised that  as Ive found above  its unlikely Ms G would have been able 
to move her mortgage to another lender, which does bring her within the scope of MCOB 
11.8.1 E.
At this time, Ms G wouldnt have been eligible for a new interest rate regardless of the date 
her mortgage was taken out  this is because she was in arrears until August 2019, which 
was less than twelve months earlier
That being the case, she wouldnt have met Kensingtons lending criteria. The criteria require 
there to have been no arrears in the twelve months leading up to an application. In June 
2020, Ms G had only been clear of arrears for ten months. She had also made a couple of 
payments one or two days late in the early part of 2020, but I dont think thats sufficient to 
fairly amount to arrears taking her outside the eligibility criteria. But she was outside the 
criteria because she had had arrears within the last year.
However, acting fairly and taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E, I think that rather than telling 
Ms G there was no interest rate available to her at all, Kensington ought to have considered 
her circumstances and understood she was unable to move to another lender and shop 
around for a better rate. It ought to have gone on to understand that this would make MCOB 
11.8.1 E relevant to her situation and that it may well have been unfair to refuse her a rate 
simply based on when her mortgage was taken out, when that wouldnt be a barrier to other 
borrowers who had similar characteristics to her at the time of this application. 
Acting fairly, and taking all this into account, I think Kensington ought fairly to have told Ms G 
that she would be free of arrears for a year in two months time  in August 2020. And it 
ought to have understood, acting fairly, that not offering her a rate no less favourable than it 
would offer to other customers with similar characteristics wouldnt be the fair thing to do> it 
follows that to avoid that unfairness, Kensington ought to have told her it would make a rate 
available to her once she was out of arrears for a year. Had it told her that, and if as a result 
Ms G had re-applied in August 2020, then I think acting fairly Kensington ought to have 
offered her a new rate not less favourable than it would have offered to other similar 
borrowers at that point.
I say that because to do otherwise would mean that she was being treated less favourably 
than other customers with similar characteristics  which tends to show unfairness in line 
with MCOB 11.8.1.
In the alternative, if because of its securitisation model Kensington didnt think it could offer 
Ms G a rate switch on her existing mortgage, it could have offered her a new mortgage to 
replace it. Although Ms G wouldnt have passed the lending criteria of a new lender, as her 
existing lender Kensington could have set aside an affordability assessment and an 
assessment of her interest only repayment strategy using MCOB 11.6.3 R and 11.7.3 R. 
Doing so to reduce her interest rate would in my view have been in Ms Gs best interests. 
Kensington says these provisions are not mandatory and it has chosen not to make use of 
them. And Ive taken that into account. But while neither 11.6.3 R nor 11.7.3 R say that a lender has to make use of those rules when considering an application I think I can 
nevertheless take into account their availability when looking at the wider question of 
whether Ms G was treated fairly. Just because there is no obligation to do something, it does 
not follow that it must always be fair to decline to do it.
Taking all that into account, I think Kensington ought fairly to have noted that Ms G was 
unable to move to another lender and shop around for a better rate. I think it ought to have 
noted that under its existing customer rate switch criteria  setting aside point of origin, 
which Ive explained I dont think is fair to include as a characteristic for the MCOB 11.8.1 E 
comparison  Ms G would have been eligible for an existing customer rate switch in two 
months time. And that, in the alternative, it could have offered her a new mortgage to 
replace the existing one using MCOB 11.6.3 R and 11.7.3 R if it considered that its business 
model was a barrier to a simple rate switch.
Had it treated Ms G fairly, therefore, I think she would have been made aware that she could 
apply for a rate switch  or a new mortgage to replace this one  in August 2020. And if 
Kensington had made her aware of this, I think Ms G would have made that application  
and, acting fairly, Kensington should reasonably have granted it.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, therefore, I think Kensington should put Ms G back in the position 
she would have been in had it done that.
Kensington should therefore send Ms G the list of rates it had available to existing customers 
in August 2020 with her loan to value at that time for her to select from. Once Ms G has 
selected a rate, it should re-calculate Ms Gs mortgage as if the selected rate had been in 
place from 1 October 2020. 
This is complicated by the fact that Kensington is no longer the owner of Ms Gs mortgage. If 
the rate Ms G selects is a two year rate, which would have expired in October 2022, it is 
straightforward for Kensington to calculate the amount Ms G has overpaid between October 
2020 and October 2022 and refund that amount to her directly.
But if Ms G selects a rate for a longer period, which would still be in place now, Kensington 
will need to refund what she has overpaid to date to her directly. And it will need to ensure 
that she does not pay more than she should have done for the remainder of the rate period.
It can do this either by coming to an arrangement with the new lender  by which the new 
lender agrees to reduce the interest rate to that of the fixed rate Ms G selects, or by which 
the mortgage is returned to Kensington so it can change the interest rate. Or if no agreement 
can be reached with the new lender, Kensington could compensate Ms G for the additional 
amount she will pay to the new lender each month until the end of the fixed rate term. There 
may be other ways to resolve this too; it is for Kensington to find a way to give effect to my 
decision.
Finally, I think Kensington should compensate Ms G for the upset and inconvenience caused 
in refusing to consider changing her interest rate, which has resulted in her having to pay 
more each month than she would otherwise have needed to for the last two years. Im 
satisfied £400 is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:Send Ms G the list of retention fixed rates available at her loan to value in August 
2020 within 28 days of the date we notify it Ms G has accepted this decision (if she 
does);
Provided Ms G selects a rate from that list and notifies Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited of her selection within 28 days of being provided with the list, 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should:
oCalculate the contractual monthly payment as it would have been on the 
selected interest rate if it had been put in place from 1 October 2020;
oFor each month between then and the date of calculation (or to the expiry of 
the selected rate if sooner), calculate the difference between the contractual 
monthly payment as it would have been and the contractual monthly payment 
as Ms G was actually charged at the time;
oFor any month in which Ms G paid at least the amount of the revised 
contractual monthly payment, pay Ms G the difference between the revised 
contractual monthly payment and the lower of the amount she actually paid or 
the contractual monthly payment charged at the time;
oAdd simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of each refunded 
monthly overpayment to the date payment is made to Ms G;
oIf the selected interest rate would have continued past the date of calculation, 
make arrangements to ensure that either:
Ms G is only charged the revised contractual monthly payment until 
the date the selected rate would have ended; or
Ms G is compensated, month by month, for the difference between the 
amount of the revised contractual monthly payment and the amount 
the new lender requires her to pay, until the date the selected rate 
would have ended.
Pay Ms G £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman