DRN-2332223
The complaint
Mrs V complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) did not do enough to inform 
her about the initial interest rate deal on her buy-to-let mortgage ending or that she mayve 
been eligible for better rates since that happened. She also believes the mortgage was mis-
sold to her. 
What happened
In November 2009 Mrs V took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with TMW. She was 
advised to do so by a third-party broker.
The mortgage initially had a fixed rate of interest for 18 months. Once this interest rate deal 
expired, in May 2011, the interest rate on the mortgage reverted to TMWs managed rate, 
which was a variable rate and at the time was 4.99%. The account remained on this interest 
rate from that point onwards.
In December 2019, Mrs V complained to TMW, via a representative. She said that she was 
unhappy TMW had not done more to inform her that her buy-to-let mortgage had moved to 
an uncompetitive interest rate or that she mayve been eligible for better interest rate deals. 
Her representative also said that the recommendation of an interest only mortgage was 
unsuitable for Mrs V and that not enough checks had been done about how this would be 
repaid.
TMW said it hadnt recommended the buy-to-let mortgage to Mrs V. It explained this was 
done by a broker. So, it wasnt responsible for the suitability of the advice. In relation to the 
interest rate it said it had written to Mrs V before the initial interest rate deal ended to inform 
her of the upcoming change. And that the annual statements had clearly shown the interest 
rate being applied to the mortgage. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this response Mrs Vs representative asked our service to look into the 
complaint. They said they felt TMW still hadnt done enough in relation to informing Mrs V of 
better rates available to her. And they still felt TMW hadnt done enough to check that the 
interest only mortgage was suitable or that a suitable repayment strategy was in place.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said, as the mortgage was 
recommended by a broker, he didnt think TMW was responsible for determining whether an 
interest only mortgage was suitable for Mrs V. So, he didnt think it had done anything wrong 
in relation to the sale of the mortgage. And he thought TMW had given clear information 
about the interest rate applicable to the mortgage.
Mrs V still thought TMW shouldve done more to inform her that better interest rates were 
available. So, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW has said, and the mortgage offer confirms, that it did not provide advice in relation to 
this mortgage. This was done by a third-party broker. This means the broker would be the 
party responsible for ensuring the mortgage was suitable for Mrs V. So, I cant reasonably 
hold TMW responsible for any concerns Mrs V may have about this.
TMW was required to ensure that it lent responsibly. But, at the point this mortgage was 
taken out, it was entitled to rely on the information provided within the application, including 
the details of the intended repayment vehicle listed by the broker  which TMW recorded as 
being the sale of the property  when doing so. The details of the repayment vehicle that 
were provided were not, in my view, unusual, particularly for a buy-to-let mortgage. So, I 
dont think TMW was wrong to rely on this when agreeing the mortgage. And I havent seen 
anything that leads me to think it was irresponsible by doing so.
Turning to Mrs Vs complaint about the interest rate applied to the mortgage, the mortgage 
offer TMW sent to Mrs V clearly explained the interest rates applicable to her buy-to-let 
mortgage  that this would be fixed for 18 months and then revert to TMWs managed rate. 
So, at the point the mortgage was taken, TMW provided Mrs V clear information about what 
would happen with interest rates.
TMW has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mrs V in April 2011, reminding her that her 
fixed interest rate was about to expire and what the new interest rate would be. This letter 
appears to have been addressed correctly. Based on this, I dont agree with Mrs V that TMW 
didnt do enough to inform her that here fixed interest rate was due to expire. I think this 
letter, and the mortgage offer wouldve made Mrs V fully aware that her fixed rate was 
ending. So, I think TMW did do enough and that it acted fairly. And Mrs V couldve 
approached TMW to discuss different rates if shed chosen to.
TMW has also sent us copies of mortgage statements, sent to Mrs V annually, which set out 
the interest rate applicable to the mortgage. Based on this, I think TMW has provided Mrs V 
with ongoing, clear and regular information about the interest rates applicable to her buy-to-
let mortgage. And I havent seen anything that leads me to think that it has applied interest to 
the account incorrectly.
Mrs Vs representatives says that TMW shouldve done more to inform her that she couldve 
applied for alternative interest rates and that the managed rate was uncompetitive compared 
to alternatives. But I dont agree. When the mortgage was put in place, TMWs responsibility 
was to administer it correctly. It wasnt required to provide ongoing and unsolicited mortgage 
advice. Customers have varying needs and requirements which can change over time. And I 
dont think TMW could reasonably be expected to anticipate what was best for Mrs V 
unprompted  including what interest rates may better suit her circumstances. Id only expect 
it to provide advice when this was requested.
As Ive said I think TMW provided clear information to Mrs V about the interest rates 
applicable to the mortgage. So I think its reasonable for TMW to have expected Mrs V to 
approach it if she wanted advice or to change their interest rate deal and I dont think it was 
required to proactively promote rates to her, which it could not reasonably know were 
appropriate to her circumstances, or provide advice without this being requested. And as a 
result, I dont think TMW has done anything wrong here.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman