DRN-2920747
The complaint
Mr L complains about the amount Calpe Insurance Company Limited wants him to repay 
after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L, a named driver on Mr Ls policy, reversed into a parked car. The other driver made a 
claim for repairs and Calpe paid these, hire charges and an inspection fee. The total was 
£2,667.91 and Calpe said Mr L should repay all this as he had a £3,000 policy excess. But 
Mr L and Mrs L thought the repair costs were excessive. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be partially upheld. He thought the 
repair costs were justified by the damage caused. But he didnt think Mr L should have to 
reimburse Calpe for its insurance costs, the £60 investigation fee. And he thought Calpe had 
charged too much for the car hire, based on the daily rate. He thought Mr L should repay 
Calpe £2,428.60. And he thought Calpe should take into account Mr L and Mrs Ls financial 
circumstances and arrange a reasonable repayment plan. 
Calpe didnt respond to the investigators view. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Mrs L are aware that their policy has a £3,000 all sections policy excess. So they 
must pay the first part of any claim up to £3,000 even if they are not making a claim for their 
own damage. I think this is made clear in the introduction to their policy document. 
Mr L thought the repair costs that Calpe paid were excessive. But I dont agree. Our 
investigator has already explained that seemingly minor damage can be costly to repair. 
And, looking at the engineers report and photographs, paintwork repairs were required to 
more than the damaged area to ensure a colour match. So I think the repair cost of 
£2,039.72 is justified. 
Calpe charged Mr L £60 for its assessors fee. But our approach is that claim handling and 
investigation costs are part of providing insurance. And we think its unfair if insurers pass on 
the costs of providing insurance to consumers. So I dont think Mr L needs to pay the £60 
assessors fee.
Calpe also included a charge for car hire while the repairs were made to the other drivers 
car. I think thats fair and reasonable. But, like the investigator, I think this has been 
incorrectly calculated by Calpe. 
The daily hire charge, as set out in the file notes, was £48.61. Hire was provided for eight 
days, so the cost was £388.88. Weve asked Calpe to explain why it charged Mr L more than 
this, but it hasnt responded. So, as it hasnt justified its charge, I think Calpes charge of 
£568.19 was unfair and it should reduce this to £388.88. 
Mr L and Mrs L have explained their financial difficulties. We expect businesses to respond 
positively and sympathetically in such circumstances. So I think Calpe should agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr L for the sum he owes, £2,428.60.
Putting things right
I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reduce the amount of excess that Mr L is liable for due to the claim to £2,428.60. 
2. Agree an affordable repayment plan for this amount with Mr L. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman