DRN-3173831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold their mortgage and the 
accompanying mortgage current account reserve (MCA). They also complain that Barclays 
ought to have recognised that Mr B had a gambling problem. 
What happened
In 2007 Barclays recommended that Mr and Mrs B should take out a mortgage and an MCA. 
The MCA is a facility that allows borrowers to borrow additional money, secured against their 
home, up to an agreed limit.
In 2011, Mr and Mrs B moved home. Barclays recommended another mortgage also with 
an MCA.
In 2017, Barclays recommended that Mr and Mrs B should take out a new interest rate 
product on their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B complain that:
Barclays didnt tell them that the MCA was optional.
Barclays didnt explain how the MCA operated or consider how they would repay 
any balance that accrued on the MCA at the end of the term when they had 
retired.
No fact find was completed.
Barclays shouldnt have recommended that they consolidate unsecured debt.
In 2018, Mr B asked Barclays if he could borrow additional money to pay gambling 
debts and to use for gambling. He said that Barclays said it couldnt offer additional 
lending, but Mr B could drawdown money from the MCA and there was around 
£11,000 available for him to use. Mr B said that Barclays didnt explain how the MCA 
operated at this point or give him any advice.
Mr B said that he was suffering from depression and pathological gambling. He said that he 
used the full available balance of the MCA for gambling  and that the MCA limit was 
increased. Mr B had lost his job and entered an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA for 
his unsecured debts.
Mr and Mrs B consider that Barclays gave poor advice at the outset and in 2018 when Mr B 
was encouraged to use the MCA. They also consider that Barclays ought to have had 
concerns in view of the spending patterns, the fact Mr Bs income had stopped and
knew he had entered an IVA (as one of the accounts included was with Barclays).
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. I didnt think there was any 
evidence to show that the mortgages taken out in 2007 or 2011 were mis-sold. And the 
2017 sale was merely a product switch. The MCA was compulsory  and Barclays set out in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way how it operated.
I didnt think that Barclays had treated Mr and Mrs B fairly in respect of some of the the 
increases to the limit of the MCA. I found that based on the information available to it, 
Barclays ought reasonably to have known:
That Mr B had a problem with gambling  the transactions on his current account clearly 
supported that.
There was a significant change in expenditure from September to November 2017.
Money was being transferred from the MCA to the current account and then to other 
accounts in Mr Bs name. While Barclays would not know for certain what the money
used for, it should know that it isnt unusual for compulsive gamblers to behave in this 
way.
By increasing the MCA reserve limit it gave Mr B access to money and any resulting 
debt would be secured against Mr and Mrs Bs home.
I said that Barclays should have been on notice that that Mr B had a problem with gambling 
by the end of November 2017 at the latest. If Barclays had offered Mr B support, it was likely 
that he would have told it that he was already receiving treatment for depression and 
pathological gambling.
Based on all of the information available to Barclays I didnt consider it was fair and 
reasonable to automatically increase the MCA reserve limit. A mortgage lender acting 
reasonably would have taken steps to limit the amounts of new debt that Mr and Mrs B could 
obtain. If Barclays had done so, it wouldnt have increased the MCA reserve limit. So I 
proposed that Barclays should:
Refund any interest it charged on the MCA where the balance was over £10,500.
Reduce the balance of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage by the difference between the 
end balance of the MCA (£20,808.56) and £10,500. I make this to be £10,308.56 
but Barclays should confirm.
Refund the interest it has applied on the £10,308.56 from the inception of the 
mortgage until date of settlement.
Allow Mr and Mrs B to repay the £10,308.56 interest free over the remaining term of 
the mortgage.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £450 for any distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs B accepted what I said. Barclays did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.sale
Mr and Mrs B have accepted what I said in my provisional decision. While Barclays hasnt 
given us a very clear explanation about what happened in respect of the various sales, the 
evidence I have does not support that the advice given by Barclays to take the mortgages 
was unsuitable.
The MCA was not optional. So it wasnt wrong for Barclays to tell Mr and Mrs B that. And the 
terms and conditions set out how the MCA operated in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
MCA
I can see that Mr and Mrs B used the MCA before the 2011 mortgage. But it operated 
within its limit and Mr and Mrs B made regular payments in excess of the interest that was 
being applied to the MCA. I dont consider that Barclays had any reason to consider there 
was a problem at that point.
Mr B said that he moved money from the MCA to a joint Barclays bank account he held 
with Mrs B to use for gambling, rather than using the MCA directly. He said he also 
transferred money to accounts with other banks. Obviously, Barclays could not know what 
he was spending on the accounts with other banks. But it could see what Mr B was 
spending on the joint accounts with Barclays.
Barclays has told me that of the accounts that Mr and Mrs B held with it, they only made 
gambling transactions on their joint current account.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs joint bank account with Barclays, there were gambling 
transactions from in 2014 to September 2016. But the frequency and amounts do not on 
the face of it look like a problem. The highest overdrawn balance I can see at that time is 
just under £3,000.
Looking at that the information we have, the spending on gambling between September 
and November 2017 does indicate that there is problem spending. Mr B spent a total of 
£47,271 during that period on gambling transactions. Barclays has pointed out that Mr B 
also received winnings of £36,678.38 during the same period. So while there was a net 
loss, it wasnt as much as first appeared.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs B exceeded the agreed overdraft limit on the current 
account on a number of occasions in September, October and November 2017. The 
current account was being supplemented by funds from the MCA. Around £80,000 was 
withdrawn during that period, - although a similar amount recredited. So at the end of 
November 2017, the MCA was overdrawn by £2,000.
I accept that the current account statements show that spending on gambling was limited 
from December 2017 until October 2018. But we can see that money was being 
transferred from the MCA to the current account and then on to other accounts held by Mr 
B. We have evidence to show that those funds were being used for gambling. I accept that 
Barclays would not have known that. But it ought reasonably to have known:
That Mr B had a problem with gambling  the transactions on his current account clearly 
supported that.
There was a significant change in expenditure from September to November 2017.Money was being transferred from the MCA to the current account and then to other 
accounts in Mr Bs name. While Barclays would not know for certain what the money
used for, it should know that it isnt unusual for compulsive gamblers to behave in this 
way.
By increasing the MCA reserve limit it gave Mr B access to money and any resulting 
debt would be secured against Mr and Mrs Bs home.
I consider that Barclays ought to have been on notice that Mr B had a problem with 
gambling by the end of November 2017.
In February 2019, Mr B obtained the Money Advice Liaison Groups Debt and Mental 
Health Evidence Form from his doctor. It said that he suffered with depression and 
pathological gambling, that he had been diagnosed in March 2017 and that he suffered an 
episode until May 2018. It said his mental health problems affected his ability to manage 
money and in particular his memory, concentration and compulsion to spend money. It said 
that Mr B was receiving support from a problem gambling clinic.
If Barclays identified the problem spending it would have been good practice to offer Mr B 
support. It is likely that had it discussed the matter with Mr B that he would have told it 
that he had been diagnosed with pathological gambling. I say that as Mr B later disclosed 
that information to Barclays.
I accept that the increase to the MCA reserve limit might be automatic. That is Barclays 
choice. But it doesnt follow that it is always going to be fair and reasonable for it to 
automatically increase the limit.
I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for Barclays to do so in this case. I think that a 
lender acting reasonably ought to have reviewed the facilities it offered Mr and Mrs B and 
taken steps to limit the amount of debt they could incur, particularly as in this case the 
debt was secured. If it had done so at the end of November 2017, I dont consider it would 
have increased the MCA reserve limit from £10,500. So it should refund the interest it 
charged on the MCA on any amount over £10,500 from 1 December 2017 until the MCA 
was repaid in January 2019.
Mr and Mrs B repaid the MCA when they remortgaged with Barclays. I consider that 
Barclays should reduce the balance of their mortgage by the difference between the end 
balance of the MCA and £10,500. It should also refund the interest that Mr and B. The 
difference can remain secured against Mr and Mrs Bs home. Barclays should come to an 
arrangement for them to repay it interest free over the remaining term of the mortgage.
Ive thought carefully about what fair redress in this case is. Im not persuaded that writing 
off the increased balance is fair in this case. Mr and Mrs B had some benefit from the funds.
Some of it was used for day to day expenditure and we can see that Mr B did have some 
winnings. But in the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for Barclays to apply 
interest to that amount.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B have been caused distress and inconvenience by what 
happened. A lot of that is due to the problems with Mr Bs health. Barclays isnt 
responsible for that. But I think it has added to his upset by allowing his secured debt to 
increase in the way it has. It has also caused delay in the resolution of this complaint. It 
took it over eight months to substantively reply to the investigators vie es, I consider it
would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs B £450.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Refund any interest it charged after 1 December 2017 where the balance of the MCA 
was over £10,500.
Reduce the balance of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage by the difference between the end 
balance of the MCA and £10,500. I make the difference to be £10,308.56 (£20,808.56-
£10,500). Barclays has not confirmed if that is correct, but it should check the correct 
figures when settling this complaint.
Refund the interest it has applied on the £10,308.56 (or whatever is the correct figure) 
from the inception of the mortgage until date of settlement. The refund can be used to 
reduce the interest free balance.
Allow Mr and Mrs B to repay the £10,308.56 (or whatever is the correct figure  less the 
refunded interest) interest free over the remaining term of the mortgage.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £450 for any distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman