DRN-3288207
The complaint
X and Mrs E complain about Mercantile Claims Management Solutions Limited (MCS) and 
the settlement fee theyve been charged after MCS agreed to cancel their outstanding loan.
X has acted as the main representative for the complaint so, for ease of reference, I will refer 
to both X and Mrs E as X throughout the decision.
What happened
On 16 October 2020, X instructed MCS to make a claim for a mis-sold time share finance 
agreement against lender B. On 11 May 2021, lender B upheld this claim and award X a 
basic refund of £8,702.49. X says he paid MCS settlement fee for this refund.
Despite the offer from lender B, MCS escalated the claim to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. And while the claim was waiting to be assessed, lender B made another offer to X 
on 18 October 2021. Within this, lender B agreed to refund X all the payments theyd made 
towards the loan, less the basic refund already offered, which totalled £7,709.99. And lender 
B also agreed to cancel the outstanding loan, which had a balance of over £15,000.
MCS invoiced X for their settlement fee. But this fee was calculated on both the refund X 
received as well as the outstanding balance that was written off when the loan was 
cancelled. X didnt think this was fair, so they raised a complaint.
X didnt think it was fair for MCS to invoice them for a fee that was based on the balance 
lender B wrote off when cancelling the loan. X explained they hadnt received this as a cash 
refund, so didnt think it was fair for MCS to expect them to pay a fee of over £5,000 when 
they didnt have the money to do so. So, X wanted MCS to waive this fee.
MCS didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the agreement, when invoicing X. They thought their fees were chargeable for any award 
made by lender B, and this included a write off of the outstanding balance when the loan 
was cancelled. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt offer to do 
anything more. X remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied it was the 
claim submitted by MCS that led to the refund, and loan cancellation, X received. And they 
thought the write off of the loans outstanding balance qualified as money recovered by MCS. 
Because of this, they thought MCS acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement, when invoicing X based on this. And so, they didnt think MCS needed to do 
anything more.
X initially agreed with this and withdrew their complaint. But MCS proceeded to re-invoice X 
for their fee and X was unhappy about this. X maintained their view it was unfair for MCS to 
invoice them for a fee based on the cancellation of the loan and they didnt think this was 
included in the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, X maintained the fee should be 
waived. As X didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on X. I understand that, as 
lender B cancelled the loan and wrote off the outstanding balance, X didnt receive a cash 
refund they could then use to pay MCS fee. So, I appreciate the worry and upset X wouldve 
felt when they received an invoice for a fee they didnt believe they had the means to pay. 
And I can understand why X would feel MCS have acted unfairly because of this. But for me 
to say MCS have acted done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in 
line with the terms and conditions of the agreement when invoicing X for a fee. Or, if I think 
they have acted in line with these, that they completed no work of value in relation to the 
write off of the loan and its outstanding balance. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Im aware X doesnt dispute MCS fees for the two cash refunds he received. And X has said 
these invoices have been settled. As these arent in dispute, I dont intend to discuss them 
any further. And as these arent in dispute, Im satisfied X recognise MCS completed the 
work that led to the two cash refund and loan cancellation.
Instead, Ive focused my decision on the main dispute, which relates to the invoice MCS 
have sent X that is calculated on the outstanding balance write off caused by the 
cancellation of the loan.
X doesnt think the agreement they signed states they would be charged if the loan was 
cancelled by lender B. And so, they think its unfair that they are being invoiced for a 
significant amount when they have received any cash refund to cover this. 
I can see the terms and conditions state The success fee is set at 30% of the monies you 
recover from your bank and/or credit provider plus VAT and MCS believe this term makes it 
clear that any money X received would be subject to a success fee at that agreed 
percentage plus VAT. 
So, Ive thought about this term and whether I think MCS have acted fairly by relying on this 
when deciding to invoice X for their fee. And I think they have. This is because the term 
explains that any money X recovers from lender B would be subject to a success fee. And 
this doesnt state explicitly that this money needed to be a cash refund for it to qualify.
Although I recognise X havent received any additional cash refund due to lender Bs 
decision to cancel the loan, I can see that a balance of over £15,000 was written off. So, X 
no longer needed to make payments to this balance. And because of this, Im satisfied X did 
receive a financial benefit from this write off. And I think its reasonable for MCS to class this 
as monies recovered, as without it, X would still have had a £15,000 balance to repay. So, I 
think MCS have acted fairly when invoicing X for their success fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Due to this, I dont think MCS need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome X was hoping for. And I appreciate it leaves X needing to 
pay a substantial invoice. But I recognise its been some time since X received the cash refunds associated to the claim. So, I think its reasonable to assume most, if not all, of this 
refund may have been spent and X may no longer have the funds to pay the outstanding 
invoice outright. Id expect MCS to act positively and sympathetically towards Xs situation 
and look to agree a reasonable and affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold X and Mrs Es complaint about Mercantile 
Claims Management Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman