DRN-2911501
The complaint
Miss S complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to help her when she fell victim to a 
scam. Shes also unhappy that it allowed a scammer to open and operate an account. 
Miss S is represented in this complaint by her father, Mr S. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
refer to relevant acts and comments as being Miss S.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In May 2020, Miss S found an advert on social media for a room to rent. The advert had 
been posted by the current tenant, who was looking for someone to share the apartment 
with. After expressing interest, Miss S was provided with contact details for the landlord. 
After an exchange of messages Miss S decided to take the room. And upon receipt of a 
copy of the landlords passport and a contract Miss S transferred a deposit payment of 
€1,400 (two months advance rent) to the account details provided to her.
The following day Miss S was contacted by the existing tenant who had concerns that the 
landlord may have also agreed to rent the room to other people. Miss S contacted the 
landlord who provided assurances, but Miss S remained suspicious. She contacted her bank 
to report the matter as potential fraud and to see if it was possible to stop or reverse the 
payment she had made. Her bank advised they couldnt stop the payment. Ultimately, it sent 
notification of fraud to Revolut. At the same time Miss S and her father contacted Revolut to 
recall the money. 
In June 2020 Revolut returned the recovered funds, that being €181.52 to Miss S. It 
explained it couldnt return the full amount as the rest of her money had been utilised by the 
account holder shortly after the funds credited the account. Revolut apologised for the prior 
communication in which it misled Miss S into believing she would receive all her funds. 
Miss S remained unhappy with Revoluts actions and asked our service to consider her 
complaint. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. To 
summarise, she didnt think Revolut had acted unfairly. Based on the evidence she thought 
Revolut had opened the beneficiary account correctly, and she didnt think it had missed an 
opportunity to identify or act on unusual activity on the account. And she was satisfied the 
correct amount had been returned to Miss S. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators findings. She maintained Revolut couldnt have 
carried out appropriate checks when the account was opened and believes the sum that has 
been returned by Revolut to another victim ought to have been returned to her. She asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. 
I would like to start by explaining that this service cannot investigate criminal matters. The 
police are the right authority to investigate the actions of the scammer. All I can consider is 
whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. And it would only be 
fair for me to direct Revolut to reimburse Miss S her loss if I think it is responsible for acts or 
omissions which caused it. Im afraid an account later found to have been utilised to 
misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it 
mean that the recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent the loss. 
With that being said, amongst my considerations are: 
- whether the beneficiary account was correctly opened;
- whether at the time Revolut ought reasonably to have known that the account being 
opened would later be used fraudulently;
- whether Revolut could and should have intervened in the context of suspiciously 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity and if so, would any intervention have made a 
difference, preventing some or all of Miss S losses; and 
- did Revolut respond appropriately upon notification of fraud.   
Revolut has shared the relevant information with our service to allow us to investigate this 
complaint. Im limited as to how much information I can share with Miss S because it relates 
to a third-party account. But Id like to assure her that Ive carefully reviewed everything 
before reaching my decision. 
I note Miss S has made detailed submissions about why she thinks Revolut mustve failed in 
its due diligence at account opening. I understand a lot of this is based on the information 
provided by the scammer and other third-parties. However, having considered everything, 
Im satisfied Revolut didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Miss S loss when opening the 
account. From the information Revolut has provided I dont think that there was anything at 
the time that reasonably couldve alerted it that the account it was opening would later be 
used to misappropriate funds. 
Ive carefully considered whether the activity on the account prior to Miss S payment into it 
and the spending of the money ought to have given Revolut concerns to the possibility of 
misappropriation of funds or fraud. And from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied there wasnt 
anything that Id reasonably have expected Revolut to have identified, that warranted an 
intervention before notification of fraud. I can also confirm that prior to Mr S and Miss S 
contacting Revolut about the beneficiary account being in receipt of money which had been 
fraudulently obtained, there had been no other notifications of fraud received in relation to 
the recipient account. So, I dont think Revolut missed an opportunity to prevent Miss S loss 
in this way.I appreciate Miss S frustration, but its unclear why when Mr S (on behalf of Miss S) 
contacted Revolut to report the fraud it couldnt locate the beneficiary account, despite him 
providing an IBAN number. But Im satisfied this hasnt made a difference in the sum 
recovered. Firstly, a receiving bank would not deduct funds from their customers account 
upon request from an unknown third party, even if they claim to be a victim. Generally, they 
would ask for an official request from the sending bank. I dont consider this to be 
unreasonable. But even in the event that Revolut had located the account and taken action it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the sum recovered. I say this because Ive seen the 
beneficiary account holders bank statement, which shows the exact time and dates the 
funds arrived and were paid away. I can see Miss S payment credited the account on 
26 May 2020 at 8.49am and all but the sum returned was paid away the same day  even 
before Miss S herself became aware shed fallen victim to a scam. 
Im satisfied Revolut acted promptly and responded appropriately when it received 
notification of fraud. Unfortunately, however, by the time Revolut had been told that the 
beneficiary account had received a payment as a result of a scam, Miss S funds had 
already left the account. So I dont think there were any failings here that prevented Miss S 
recovering her money. 
I realise Miss S doesnt accept the correct amount has been returned to her as she has been 
told by another victim that Revolut has given them a full refund. I understand why she feels 
this way, but I cant comment on the reasons for why Revolut have refunded or returned 
sums to other victims. My consideration here is limited to deciding whether Revolut has 
returned the correct amount to Miss S and Im satisfied it did as most of Miss S funds were 
spent soon after they were received. 
Im satisfied that when Revolut received notification from Miss S bank, it responded 
appropriately within a reasonable time to inform them some funds remained, and these will 
be returned to Miss S once theyd completed their investigation. I can see the investigations 
concluded in June 2020. The partial funds which remained were returned to Miss S; and so, 
I cant fairly say Revoluts actions were unreasonable or that they failed to respond 
appropriately to notification of fraud. 
I do sympathise with the situation Miss S found herself in and I know this isnt the answer 
she was hoping for. I fully appreciate she thought she was making a payment for genuine 
purposes and acted in good faith. I acknowledge the efforts she and her father have made to 
try and recover the money. But Im satisfied Revolut hasnt missed an opportunity to prevent 
Miss S loss, and the amount returned was what remained of her funds once Revolut had 
been notified of the fraud. Ultimately Miss S has suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
scammers actions and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Revolut to compensate 
Miss S for losses that were the result of a third partys actions  not Revoluts. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman