DRN-1990975
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (NBL) mis-sold him a 
single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
During a meeting in 2002 Mr S entered into a five year loan agreement with NBL to buy a 
car. At the same time he took out a single premium PPI policy to protect his loan 
repayments. The policy wouldve covered his loan repayments if he was unable to work 
because of accident or sickness for the duration of the loan and for up to 12 months if he lost 
his job. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think the benefit 
the policy provided was worth the cost. 
NBL disagreed. So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision 
in June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither NBL or Mr S have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im currently thinking of not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S applied for a loan during a meeting with an adviser. NBL had to make sure it was clear 
to Mr S he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr S said this wasnt done but he hasnt given 
much detail about why he thinks this. So to help me reach my decision Ive considered what 
NBL has told us about its sales process and what the documents from the sale show. 
From what I understand of the sales process its likely that there wouldve been a discussion 
between the sales adviser and Mr S about PPI and if PPI was required it wouldve been 
included on the credit agreement.
The credit agreement Mr S signed has the PPI cost is set out separately from the loan cost 
and there are separate boxes to sign for each of the loan and PPI. In the PPI box I can see 
there is a tick next to the words YES  I/We wish to select cover as recommended Mr S 
has signed just below this as well as signing for the loan separately in the section above this. 
I think PPI was included on the credit agreement because Mr S chose to take it after a 
discussion with the sales adviser. If he hadnt agreed to take the policy I think he wouldve 
raised this with the sales adviser when he saw the credit agreement.
So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr S at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because as well as selecting to take it with a tick, he 
had to sign separately for it and was also given the option to sign and tick not to take PPI 
just below this. And based on what Mr S has told us I cant say its likely NBL did do things to 
make Mr S think the PPI wasnt optional.
Mr S was advised to take the policy. What this means is that NBL not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr S could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if NBL did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of sale Mr S says he had some sick pay and savings and his family 
wouldve helped make his loan repayments if he couldnt work. But there is no 
guarantee his family would be able to help and a successful claim on the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or savings and for potentially longer if he 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness for the duration of the loan and for up 
to 12 months if he lost his job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve provided a suitable benefit to Mr S in his circumstances. 
There was nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time. And 
theres nothing to suggest at the time of sale he wouldve needed the flexibility to 
cancel the policy early.
I also need to consider whether NBL gave Mr S information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the PPI out. I can see that all the information on the cost of PPI is shown on the 
credit agreement. But I dont know if NBL gave all the information as it should of. 
But for the same reasons that the PPI was suitable and based on what Mr S has told us 
about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been 
given all the proper information.
This means I currently dont think NBL has to pay back the cost of PPI to Mr S.As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Northern Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman