DRN-4024188
The complaint
Ms K complains that Target Servicing Limited caused unnecessary delays when she wanted 
to redeem her help to buy loan.
What happened
Ms K bought a flat in 2012 with the assistance of the help to buy scheme.
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Ms Ks property is in England, and she took the loan out with Homes England, 
which was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an executive 
agency and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, 
Housing and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property purchase 
price to the borrower to enable them to buy a home. 
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking it behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
What the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of the property at 
the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So depending on how 
property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to pay back more or 
less than the amount they originally borrowed. 
Ms K contacted Target in April 2021 as she wanted to redeem the help to buy loan. Target 
sent her the redemption requirements along with the Customer Information Pack. Ms K 
returned what Target required along with the administration fee on 6 April 2021. She also 
sent Target an EWS1 form which was completed on the building that her property is in. 
Ms K arranged a valuation which was dated 5 March 2021. The property was valued at 
£90,000 and given a rating of B2  which meant there were substantial risks that required 
remediation work. 
Target explained to Ms K that due to the drop in value, the valuation would need to be 
reviewed by Homes England. Target sent Ms K a declaration form which was to be 
completed by her surveyor which she returned a few weeks later.  
Ms K has told us that she had to chase Target on numerous occasions only to be told they 
didnt have a further update for her. She said Target then asked for a new valuation in 
September 2021, but nothing really happened until July 2022. Target explained to Ms K that 
she could apply to the President of RICS (Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors) who 
could appoint a surveyor to carry out a new valuation at a cost to her. 
Ms K was very unhappy with how long the delays were taking. She said Target should have 
accepted the first valuation that she submitted. She said she had the money to pay off the 
help to buy loan as this was being gifted to her by a family member and as she wasnt able 
to redeem it on time, she is now being charged more interest on the loan. 
Target acknowledged there were delays and offered to pay Ms K £200 for the inconvenience 
caused but Ms K didnt accept this, so she brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that Target should have allowed Ms K to 
redeem the loan based on the first valuation but if they did want another one, they should 
arrange this at their own cost. Our investigator also thought that as Ms K should have been 
allowed to redeem the loan from the valuation in March 2021, that Target should refund the 
interest and management fees added to the loan from July 2021  as that valuation was 
valid for three months. She also thought that Target should pay £750 compensation to Ms K 
as she acknowledged this had caused her a lot of upset over the period of time it took her to 
get things sorted out. 
Since our investigators involvement, Target have since contacted Ms K and allowed her to 
redeem the help to buy loan based on the March 2021 valuation. Ms K has confirmed that 
this was completed on 28 April 2023. 
The investigator contacted Target to find out if they would then arrange for the remaining 
redress to be paid to Ms K - refund of management fees and interest added to the loan and 
the £750 compensation. But Target said they were still working with Homes England and 
were encountering delays so they said they would wait until the final decision was issued in 
order to settle the complaint. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity in administering the loan on behalf of the lender, Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and exercising the 
lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the 
lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to 
do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And 
as a regulated firm, it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, they have appointed Target to act on their behalf  
as using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent Ms K was told to deal 
with Target at all times and Target was presented as being responsible for the management 
and administration of the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that I can take these matters into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as a 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in their own right, Target is the appropriate 
firm to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, they 
have an obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lenders duties.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Ms K is entitled to redeem the loan at any time, either 
by selling the property or repaying in some other way (such as from savings, or by taking 
further borrowing on the main mortgage). 
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in settling the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.Ms K provided Target with a valuation which was carried out in March 2021. Target noted 
there had been a drop in the value of the property so they referred this to Homes England 
and Ms K would have had three months to redeem the loan before the valuation expired.
I agree with the investigator that Ms K should have been allowed to redeem the help to buy 
loan based on that first valuation. She had provided everything that Target had asked for, 
but they referred the valuation to Homes England which caused delays with her redeeming 
the loan. But there is nothing in the terms and conditions that states this has to happen.
Ms K has spent a considerable amount of time trying to chase this with Target to find out 
what was going on, and Ive listened to numerous telephone calls that highlight she wasnt 
given an update as Target were still waiting to hear from Homes England. This meant that 
the first valuation had eventually expired and after many months  Target then asked for a 
further valuation which shouldnt have happened. 
There have been multiple delays caused to Ms K which have taken months and its evident 
from the evidence I have seen that she has spent months trying to redeem the help to buy 
loan.  Ive seen a statement that the funds were available from a family member who was 
going to help her to do this  so she has been disadvantaged with how long this has taken.  
Ms K had already started to pay interest on the help to buy loan and has ended up paying 
more than she needed to as Target didnt allow her to redeem it following on from the 
valuation in March 2021.
Target have now since agreed to allow Ms K to redeem the help to buy loan using the March 
2021 valuation and Ms K has told us that she completed this in April 2023  so Target have 
done what we would have expected them to do and what the investigator recommended.
But Target have not compensated Ms K for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her 
over a significant amount of time in trying to get this sorted out. She has called Target 
several occasions and its taken a lot of her time to get Target to do what they have now 
ended up doing  allowing her to redeem on the valuation she originally sent them. So I 
agree with the investigator that Target should pay her £750 compensation for the effort she 
had to put in and for the upset and frustration this has caused her. She has explained how 
much this affected her and I think this needs to be recognised by Target. 
Target should also refund any management fees or interest added to the loan from July 
2021 as the March 2021 valuation was valid for three months so Ms K would have redeemed 
her loan by July 2021.
 
My final decision
Based on the reasons given above, I direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Pay Ms K a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Target should refund all interest and management fees paid by Ms K from 1 July 
2021 to date of redemption adding simple interest of 8%* running from the date each 
payment was made to the date the loan was redeemedPayment of all the above sums should be made within 28 days of the date we notify Target 
that Ms K accepts the decision, if she does. If payment is not made within 28 days, Target 
should add simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of this decision to the date of 
payment.
*Target may deduct income tax from the 8% interest elements of my award, as 
required by HMRC. But they should tell Ms K what it has deducted so that she can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if she is entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman