DRN-2473412
The complaint
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says Mr M was given unsuitable advice by National Westminster Bank Plc to 
invest in two guaranteed capital bonds in May 2007. 
What happened
The CMC first complained to NatWest in March 2020. It said that Mr M had worked hard to 
amass savings of £36,000 and NatWests adviser approached him to advise that he place 
the majority of these funds into the two bonds. 
It submitted that the risk posed by the investments was too high for Mr M and he was not 
given sufficient information about them to make an informed decision on whether to proceed. 
The CMC also expressed concerns on any possible returns that could be made by these 
products when fixed-rate bonds of 5.6% were being offered at that time by high street banks. 
The CMC referred to a decision given by an ombudsman from this service which upheld a 
complaint in similar circumstances.   
NatWest looked at the complete investment advice given to Mr M, as in addition to the 
investments of £8,000 and £23,000 into two Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB) products, Mr 
M had also placed a further £15,000 into a Portfolio Bond and £4,000 into a Mini ISA, taking 
the full capital invested to £50,000. 
It disagreed with the CMCs submissions of Mr Ms position at the time of the advice. It 
provided records to confirm that he actually held £51,353 on deposit, a unit trust of £4,600 
and a further £20,787 in his Cash ISA. 
NatWest partially upheld the complaint. It was satisfied that the level and spread of risk 
following the advice was suitable for Mr Ms circumstances and provided some diversity to 
his overall assets. However, it did agree that the recommendation of the total sum invested 
including the unit trust already in place was marginally over its own internal guidance on 
percentage of assets to be held in longer term investments. It accepted that is should have 
advised Mr M to keep £8,556 outside of his investments, and not tied up in any form of risk-
based account.  
NatWest also noted that the benchmark for diversification had been very slightly 
miscalculated. It said the when the investments were taken a percentage of Mr Ms total 
available funds of £76,740, it surpassed its diversification guidelines by £304. 
It offered Mr M £873.65 to put matters right. This was calculated by comparing the portion of 
each investment that was overcommitted with the return Mr M could have achieved using the 
Bank of England average fixed rate bond data (which gave a positive figure for the GCBs 
and no loss for the portfolio bond) plus gross interest and less tax.
The CMC referred Mr Ms complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint and said he didnt think it should succeed. He felt that 
NatWests adviser had reasonably assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk. Further, he said that 
while the CMC had submitted that there were better products available which wouldnt have 
exposed Mr M to any risk whilst still achieving returns, his role was to consider whether the 
advice was suitable for Mr M based on an assessment of his situation at the time. He 
considered that the recommendations were fair. 
Further, looking at NatWests assessment of an acceptable level of diversification, he felt its 
offer was reasonable in the circumstances and it should not be required to do anything more.  
The CMC disagreed. It made a number of further submissions. In summary. It said:
the total investment of £50,000 was all the money Mr M held in his bank account and 
therefore the recommendations were unreasonable;
Mr M did have additional capital, but this was held in cash ISAs;
he would have lost valuable benefits if he had needed to make cash withdrawals;
it takes the view that NatWests adviser failed to ensure Mr M retained sufficient 
funds on deposit;
the proposed term of the bonds was too short and therefore did not have a fair 
chance of making a positive return;
Mr M should have been advised to clear his remaining £18,000 mortgage debt 
instead;
Mr M wouldnt have invested if he was made aware of the true nature of the bonds;
to achieve the sorts of returns advertised, the FTSE needed to make significant and 
exceptional growth to be justify the investment when compared to a risk-free fixed 
rate bond instead.   
The investigator considered the further comments made by the CMC but he did not believe 
this changed his view of the complaint. He said whilst he recognised that the £26,740 Mr M 
retained was held in cash ISAs, he also had a monthly disposable income of nearly £1,000 
after outgoings. Further, he did not think the recommendation posed too much risk  the 
recommendation made was in line with his established attitude to risk.    
The CMC said Mr M wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. NatWest 
confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not succeed. Ill set out a summary of my conclusions below.  
I note the CMC has continued to argue that the proportion of Mr Ms capital placed into the 
bonds following the advisers recommendation was too high. However, NatWest agrees with 
this and it upheld that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. I also agree with both parties that, despite 
Mr M having a fair amount of disposable income, leaving little over £1,000 on deposit was 
not a sensible consideration. Though he could have accessed his approximate remaining 
£20,000, this was held in a cash ISA with limitations on withdrawal so not as freely available.
NatWest has shown its investment guidelines from the time and that Mr M ought to have 
invested some £8,556 less  along with a minor adjustment for diversification across the 
blend of bonds, ISAs and the existing unit trust. In essence, it is suggesting that in addition 
to the remaining sum in Mr Ms current account, he should have had a total of £10,000 set aside on deposit for emergency expenditure and its adviser didnt recognise this in 2007. I 
agree with that and believe the redress proposed in these circumstances is reasonable. 
However, I do not believe that this otherwise renders the recommendations entirely 
unsuitable. Mr M was not a first time investor as had been suggested, but he had limited 
experience of investments. He and his wife had an £18,000 outstanding mortgage with a 
remaining eight year term at the time of the advice set up on a capital repayment basis and 
no other liabilities. Further, Mr M was recorded as having almost £1,000 per month available 
in disposable income.  
Given his recorded aims and objectives of achieving greater returns than was possible on 
deposit accounts and that Mr M was twelve years away from his hoped retirement date of 
age 60, I do not believe the proposed terms for the bonds of three and six years respectively 
were unreasonable, nor do I consider that of themselves, they posed too great a risk for Mr 
M to take given the guaranteed nature of the investments. 
Notwithstanding the amount of capital placed into these investments, I do not consider they 
were otherwise unsuitable for NatWests adviser to recommend. The bonds in fact had a 
slightly lower risk grading than Mr Ms established attitude to risk, with only the £4,000 Mini 
ISA having a medium risk. And though the ISA was the only recommendation which did not 
have a guaranteed return, it was a small proportion of the total investments as a whole. 
Finally, though Mr M did have joint responsibility for an outstanding mortgage liability, this 
was due to be repaid before his retirement and had a limited outstanding balance. It was not 
unreasonable to consider investments alongside this that met his medium and long term 
financial goals ahead of his retirement. 
That the CMC is assessing the investment now by comparison to fixed rate bonds available 
from alternative businesses is said with the benefit of hindsight and not an appropriate 
comparison. Mr M agreed to meeting with NatWest and it was not advising on a market-wide 
range of investments. It was required to look at his circumstances at the time of the sale and 
make recommendations appropriate to his ascertained needs. I must now measure the 
same, based on any available evidence from both parties and determine if the proposals 
made by the adviser were reasonable and appropriate.
The key features information issued to Mr M at the time explained how his various 
investments operated and in the case of the bonds, the possible returns depending on the 
performance of the FTSE or otherwise as guaranteed, whichever was higher. Im satisfied 
that NatWest provided clear and relevant information about these investments as a means to 
achieve Mr Ms stated aims.  
I have seen that the CMC asserts that the outcome in a different complaint dealt with by 
another ombudsman determines that this complaint ought to be upheld. I do not accept that. 
No two cases are factually identical and that an ombudsman may have upheld a complaint 
with similar circumstances does not set a precedent nor does it compel me to reach the 
same conclusion. Instead, I must look at the evidence and reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome by making findings on the specific facts in this complaint. 
Having done so, I do not agree that NatWests adviser made inappropriate 
recommendations taking into account Mr Ms attitude to risk. I do agree the amounts 
proposed to be invested were miscalculated as they failed to leave Mr M with sufficient 
capital that wasnt tied into an ISA wrapper; however NatWest has reasonably conducted 
appropriate redress to put that matter right and I think its offer is fair.  
I can see that NatWest has confirmed that its offer remains open to Mr M and therefore I 
leave him to decide whether to accept NatWests redress. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman