DRN-3346900
The complaint
Ms B complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) has unfairly declined 
to pursue a claim under her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to Ms B or Acromas includes any respective agent or representative. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been covered in 
detail by our Investigator previously. So, Ive summarised events.
Ms B held her LEI cover with Acromas as an addition to her home insurance policy.
In October 2019, Ms B sought to claim on this cover following a dispute with her 
neighbour  about damage to her home from the neighbours contractors.
Acromas considered the claim and passed it to a firm of solicitors (Company A) for its 
view. It didnt believe the claim had reasonable prospects of success, nor did it 
consider the matter proportionate to pursue.
Following some back and forth, Ms B was asked to provide a second opinion on 
prospects and proportionality from a different solicitor. She contacted Company B 
which said the claim did have reasonable prospects of success but did not comment 
on proportionality. Around June 2020 Company A sought the opinion of a barrister in 
line with its terms. They agreed the claim had reasonable prospects of success, but 
said they were unable to comment on proportionately as costs hadnt been provided. 
Following advice from Ms Bs surveyor, Company A reconsidered the matter and said 
the cost of repair would be around £5,000. And given the costs incurred, it 
determined the matter wouldnt be proportionate to pursue. So, Acromas limited 
actions under the claim to a claim letter to the neighbour.
Ms B disagreed, asking for Acromas to cover the claim in full. She raised concerns 
about the honesty of Company A and Acromas agents, saying they colluded, altering 
evidence and provided low quotes for works to reject the claim. She also said 
Acromas had failed to provide the barrister with policy terms or an estimate of costs.
Acromas stood by its claim position, and said it passed the matter to a barrister 
despite Company Bs opinion not commenting on proportionality as requested. It said 
it had kept Ms B informed of this and told her of the information that was being 
shared with the barrister. It also said it had asked Ms B to provide quotes which she 
had not provided until August 2020  but these had been for a replacement roof and 
not reflective of just the damage caused by the neighbours contractors.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold it. He said the policy 
has a proportionately requirement that means generally if legal costs would be higher 
than the cost being pursued in question, they will be fairly declined. The Investigator 
said its actions to pursue a barristers opinion following a disagreement on legal 
opinion was fair. And if she provided another legal opinion that showed the claim was 
proportionate, Acromas would need to be reconsider the matter. 
Ms B disagreed and reiterated her concerns. She said Company A had altered 
evidence which Acromas shouldve picked up on. This had required her to obtain a 
second opinion at her own cost. She had been unable to provide quotes to Company 
B to determine proportionately due to various factors. And provided a lot of detail on 
events that followed the decline, and her account of what actions she believes 
Acromas should have taken across the claim.
This didnt change our Investigators mind. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs submissions to this Service span many pages. Within this decision I wont 
be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a 
reflection of the informal nature of this Service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which 
means I will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I 
need to make. That may also mean I dont comment on everything Ms B has said 
but I can confirm I have read and considered everything said by both parties.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take 
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Ms Bs policy requires claims to have reasonable prospects of success and 
proportionate to pursue, typically defined as at least 51% and which would 
recover losses or damages. These are common requirements in LEI policies.
This means if Ms Bs claim was shown to have at least 51% or greater prospects 
of success and would recover her losses or damages, and the claim was 
proportionate, then on its face the claim should be covered (subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy). 
In determining if Ms Bs claim had reasonable prospects, Acromas relied on the 
opinion of Company As solicitor. This outlined the potential claim Ms B may be 
able to make and assessed prospects at below 51%. It also raised concerns 
about proportionality of the claim taking into account the legal costs that would be 
incurred pursuing the claim that would likely be unrecoverable.
Acromas is entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that 
advice is obviously wrong. The claim was reviewed by a qualified individual with 
suitable experience in the relevant area of law. And Company As advice was 
properly written and reasoned, so Im satisfied it was fair for Acromas to rely on it.
Acromas was clear in outlining the next steps for Ms B if she disagreed with this 
opinion, telling her to provide a conflicting legal assessment from a solicitor that 
commented on both the prospects of success and proportionality of such a claim. 
And if the opinion showed the claim had prospects, it would be passed to a 
barrister for their review in line with its policy terms.
Ms B provided Company Bs conflicting opinion. But this only commented on 
prospects of success and not proportionality as Acromas had specified. Despite 
this, Acromas still sought the opinion of a barrister.Ms B has said Acromas failed to provide quotes to the barrister so that 
proportionality could not be considered by them. And within the barristers 
comments they mention that Acromas surveyor did not provide estimates of 
repairs and that they were a little surprised by this. 
From what Ive seen, quotes werent provided to Acromas at this stage by Ms B. 
And it strikes me Acromas passed the matter to a barrister at this stage given the 
circumstances of Covid-19 and problems Ms B had mentioned about obtaining 
quotes. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to penalise Acromas for 
taking these steps when I think a reasonable alternative wouldve been to ask 
Ms B to seek further legal opinion on the matter of proportionality herself at that 
stage. So, Im not persuaded Acromas failed to provide quotes to the barrister. 
Acromas has commented that the quotes Ms B later provided (around August 
2020) related to the replacement of a whole roof and not specific damage caused 
by the dispute. It didnt accept this as an accurate cost of the claim and relied 
instead on its own experts at a lower cost of around £5,000. And it has raised 
concerns about the likelihood of recovering funds from the relevant parties. I think 
its actions and reasoning here is fair and reasonable.
Ms B said Acromas failed to provide policy terms to the barrister. The impact of 
this appears limited to me as the barrister gave their view on the prospects of 
success to Ms Bs favour. And the policy terms wouldnt appear to have changed 
matters regarding proportionality as the absence of quotes for repair was the 
reason they didnt comment on this topic. So, this doesnt change my mind.
Ms B said Acromas should have made an ex-gratia payment to her as the 
barrister referenced the possibility of this. By its nature, an ex-gratia payment is 
not one that is required in line with a policy. So, Im satisfied a decision to make a 
payment like this sits with Acromas and isnt something Id direct it to make here.
Ms B has alleged that Acromas has either aided or been complicit with reports 
being altered for the purposes of declining a claim. Having read all the 
documentation available, Im not satisfied this is supported by the evidence. As 
Ive said above, I would expect Acromas to follow the advice of its appointed legal 
experts unless there was obviously something wrong with it  and here Im 
satisfied there wasnt. If Ms B wants to pursue a complaint about Company A and 
its actions, shes been given the appropriate signposting to pursue this.
Based on everything Ive been given, Im satisfied Acromas acted reasonably in 
relying on Company As advice and by declining the claim related to 
proportionality. So, Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman