DRN-4278181
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the service provided by Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading 
as Hastings Direct (Hastings) following a claim made under her car insurance policy.  
What happened
In November 2022 Miss W contacted Hastings to notify them of an incident involving her car. 
Miss W was provided with a courtesy car but shortly after receiving it, Miss W had to return it 
due to faults with the car. This happened again when she was given a replacement courtesy 
car.  
Miss Ws car was sent to an approved repairer from Hastings network to be reviewed. In 
January 2023, Miss W was told her car would be repairable. Miss W challenged this, and 
following review by an independent engineer, Miss Ws car was declared a total loss. 
Miss W was informed of the total loss decision, and the valuation that would be offered for 
her car. Miss W wasnt happy that Hastings valuation included pre-existing damage. 
Hastings considered Miss Ws comments, and the valuation was increased by removing the 
deduction that had been initially applied for pre-exiting damage. 
Miss W complained to Hastings about the delays on her claim, and the way it had been 
handled. Hastings agreed the service provided wasnt in line with their usual service 
standards and awarded £30 in recognition of the upset caused to Miss W. Miss W remained 
unhappy with the handling of her claim, and so referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
As part of their response to this service, Hastings increased their offer to put things right by 
£170- making total compensation offered £200. The investigator found that the additional 
compensation offered by Hastings for what had gone wrong was reasonable, and in line with 
what wed recommend.  
Miss W rejected these findings saying £200 doesnt fairly reflect the impact on her mental 
health in dealing with errors caused by Hastings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has 
been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Hastings couldve handled Miss Ws claim better. Miss W has explained 
how she made several phone calls to Hastings before they agreed to offer her a courtesy 
car. And even when this was received, there were problems with the car which means Miss 
W had to go through the trouble of returning the car, and asking for a replacement. This 
happened twice. This experience wouldve left Miss W feeling frustrated.
Im also persuaded that there were delays on the claim. This meant it was almost a month 
after the incident date that Miss Ws car was reviewed by Hastings approved repairer. And 
there was further upset caused to Miss W after being told her car was repairable, only for 
this to be changed to a total loss decision. 
It is evident that Miss W has suffered upset and inconvenience because of whats happened 
with her claim. When thinking about the impact on Miss W because of the difficulty in getting 
a courtesy car, and the delays in dealing with her claim, I think the additional £170 offered is 
fair and in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. This amount recognises 
what went wrong with the handling of Miss Ws claim. But also that Miss W did have the 
benefit of a courtesy car for the duration of her claim. So the impact of the delays were 
lessened by Miss W still having access to a car for the period that Hastings failed to 
progress her claim, and when Miss W disputed the decision on her claim. 
The total compensation of £200 also recognises the timescale in which Hastings reacted 
once total loss settlement was offered. This was communicated on 26 January 2023. Miss W 
challenged the amount offered, and by 3 February a payment was raised for the revised 
increased amount. 
I accept it wouldve been frustrating for Miss W to contest the initial outcome of her claim. 
But I think Hastings reacted to Miss Ws concerns in reasonable time. Miss W also had the 
benefit of a courtesy car during the time she was in dispute with Hastings about the valuation 
offered. Overall I think the compensation offered is broadly in line with what wed 
recommend in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Hastings to pay more than the 
additional £170 offered in settlement of this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay Miss W £170. 
My final decision
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman