DRN-4330665
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined his claim for storm 
damage to his property. 
 
What happened
Mr P had a buildings insurance policy with AXA. 
On 13 January 2023 Mr P made a claim for storm damage through his broker. 
He said that he had suffered a leak to his roof in December and the repair work had already 
been completed. He had a complete replacement roof costing £15000. 
Following receipt of the invoice for the roof from Mr P, AXA appointed a surveyor to inspect 
the damage and validate the claim. 
The surveyor visited the property in March 2023 and advised that the claim would be 
declined, as he couldnt find any evidence of storm damage and felt the leak was due to the 
roof deteriorating over a period of time, which had allowed the water ingress. 
Mr P complained about his, but AXA didnt uphold the complaint, they said that they were 
satisfied that the photos showed a deteriorating roof and that the bad weather had 
highlighted a problem already present. Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his 
complaint to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ps complaint and he thought that AXA had 
acted fairly declining the claim.   
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether AXA have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
However, having considered all of the evidence carefully, I havent upheld Mr Ps complaint, 
and I will explain why.  
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider:
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened
2. Is the damage consistent with damage caused by a storm? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, then a claim will usually succeed. 
 
So, Ive firstly looked at whether storm conditions were present. Mr Ps policy booklet defines 
storm at page 11 as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 miles) per hour or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour or
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cm) in 24 hours, or
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
AXA have said that there were no weather conditions which met this definition of storm 
around the time of the incident. 
I have checked the weather reports for two months before the reported date of loss. I can 
see that the highest recorded wind speeds were of gusts of up to 42 mph in late November 
but nothing similar in December. Rainfall was also not enough to meet the criteria for a 
storm.  
Whilst I appreciate that these are strong winds, the policy is clear that it considers 55mph to 
be the minimum wind speed for storm winds, and so I am satisfied that AXAs decision that 
storm conditions arent met is in line with the terms of the policy. 
Although I think AXA have fairly decided that the storm condition isnt met, I have gone on to 
consider whether there is evidence of damage consistent with the kind of damage caused by 
a storm, but I cant see any evidence of this.  
AXA sent out their surveyor in March to discuss the matter with Mr P and to examine the 
roof. As the roof had already been fully replaced, the surveyor was reliant on information 
provided by Mr P and images from Google showing the roof before it was replaced. 
AXAs surveyors say that the roof looked to be in a poor state of repair from the images on 
Google. They also have considered the damage report provided by a roofer in December 
2022 which Mr P has provided which recommends a new roof as there is a lot of weather 
damage to the roof. I dont think it is possible to make a fair assessment of the roof from 
those images and a few lines of a report. However, in the absence of any pictures of the 
actual storm damage to the roof, I also dont think it would be fair to say that any damage 
that had occurred was consistent with a one off storm either. 
Mr P has only provided one image of damage to the surveyor, which appears to be of a 
gable end of a slate tiled roof. Google images of Mr Ps roof from 2019 show it to be 
concrete slates, and there is no gable end, so I dont think this image is an accurate picture 
of damage to Mr Ps roof. 
And so in the light of what I have said above, Im satisfied that AXA acted fairly when they 
declined Mr Ps claim. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint, and AXA Insurance UK Plc need not do 
anything further. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman