DRN-3982044
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R made a claim on her car insurance policy when her car was stolen. UKI initially 
thought the car wasnt fitted with a tracker and so it declined the claim because it said this 
was a breach the policy conditions. Mrs R complained about its decision and its overall 
handling of the claim. 
UKI later overturned its decision and accepted the claim. Mrs R also wanted to make a claim 
under her personal belongings cover for items that were in her car, and for electronics which 
she thought should be covered under the removable electronic equipment additional cover. 
UKI accepted the claim for the dash camera, it also paid Mrs R up to the limit of cover (£500) 
for her personal belongings. However, it said electronics such as her laptop, tablet and 
camera wouldnt be classed as removal electronic equipment. It also didnt think it caused 
any unnecessary delays in its handling of the claim. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI unnecessarily 
delayed the claim for around two months  and noted Mrs R had phoned and emailed on 
numerous occasions for updates, and to get UKI to progress the claim. She thought it should 
pay £250 compensation for the delays it caused. Our investigator also said the policy didnt 
define what would be considered removable electronic equipment and so she thought UKI 
should pay for the stolen items Mrs R claimed for.
UKI didnt accept our investigators opinion, it says the items were portable personal items. It 
says removable electronics are devices that can be fitted to the car. It also doesnt think 
there were two months of delays that would warrant £250 compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint as been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why.
Claim for electronic devices
The terms and conditions of the policy say in the event of a claim, it would provide up to 
£2,000 in cover for removal electronic equipment. UKI doesnt think Mrs Rs, laptop, tablet, 
and other electronics would be considered removable electronic equipment under the policy. 
So, Ive thought about what it said and whether I think its decision to decline this aspect of 
Mrs Rs claim was fair  and I dont think it was. 
Ive carefully read the policy documentation and Im satisfied it doesnt define what is 
considered removable electronic equipment under the contract, nor does it specify that the 
items being claimed for should be in-car equipment or should have the ability to be fitted to 
the car. I appreciate that UKI might have intended to only cover car devices in this section, 
but I dont consider thats what the wording says. In the absence of a specific definition, I 
think its fair to apply the ordinary every day meaning of those words. Using that approach, I 
find removable electronic equipment can be interpreted broadly to cover any electronic 
items that can be taken out of the car (which arent specifically insured elsewhere in the 
policy).  
I would also note that entirely separate cover is available for in-car entertainment equipment 
 and the policy makes clear that it is for devices fitted to the car. Based on this, and what I 
consider to be a fair interpretation of the term in question, I think its reasonable to consider 
Mrs Rs electronics under the removable electronic equipment cover provided by the policy.
For this reason, I think UKI should pay Mrs Rs claim for the electronics she had in the car 
when it was stolen, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Customer service
UKI initially declined Mrs Rs claim on 27 August 2022, and she complained about its 
decision a few days later. Its not clear when UKI was first notified about Mrs Rs tracking 
device, but its records show Mrs R phoned on 8 September 2022 when the car had been 
recovered. So, I think its likely UKI became aware of the tracker around this time as there is 
no evidence of any further contact with Mrs R, until it requested the tracker information from 
her on 22 September 2022. I would have expected it to have requested this information 
when it was first informed, as it was key to the decision it reached. Mrs R has shown, and 
Im satisfied she emailed UKI the same day with the information it had requested. This was 
requested again a month later before the decision was made to cover the claim the following 
day on 25 October 2022. So, I find UKI caused a delay of between a month and six weeks at 
this point.
I note Mrs R instigated most of the communication - including when she phoned, emailed 
and sent messages via social media as well as UKIs online chat function. So, I think UKI 
could have done more to keep her up to date with its progress. I also find she wasnt always 
phoned back when she should have been. The system notes show she was asked to phone 
other departments on more than one occasion, which supports what Mrs R says happened. 
And at times I find she was given incorrect information by UKIs agents. 
So, Ive thought about whether UKI ought to compensate Mrs R. Having a car stolen is 
upsetting and I think the delays in handling her claim and lack of communication will have 
caused significant added upset and stress in what was already a difficult time. I think UKI 
could have done more to investigate the claim before initially deciding to decline it (which 
was done very quickly). Had it done so, I find that would have limited the stress it caused 
Mrs R. 
Mrs R says she took out a loan to pay off her finance agreement because of UKIs initial 
decision to decline the claim. She also says she had to buy a car in the interim, and paid to 
replace her stolen electronic equipment as she needed them for work. I think covering all 
these expenses would have caused Mrs R additional worry and upset. So, taking account of 
all the above impact I consider UKIs mistakes caused Mrs R, and our published guidance 
on these awards, I think £250 compensation is fair in all the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I have decided I uphold this complaint and I require U K 
Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mrs Rs claim for the electronics stolen from her car under the removable 
electronic equipment part of the policy, and pay the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. It should pay 8% simple interest on any settlement 
it pays her from the date of loss until payment is made.
It should also pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman