DRN-4230136
The complaint
Mrs M and Ms M complain that D G S Independent Financial Advisers Limited applied for a 
two-year product despite Ms Ms instructions that they wanted a five-year fixed interest rate 
product. They ask for compensation for financial loss. Ms M has dealt with the complaint 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs M and Ms M took mortgage advice from DGS in late 2021. Ms M says she asked for a 
five-year product, and didnt discuss a two year product with DGS at any time. She says she 
only found out she had a two-year product when the lender wrote to her following completion 
in April 2022. Ms M says they will face a significant increase in interest rates when the two-
year product ends and asks for compensation for this. 
Our investigator said, based on the evidence, DGS discussed both two-year and five-year 
products with Ms M. She said documents provided to Mrs M and Ms M, including the 
mortgage offer that they accepted, set out a two-year product.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she wrote to DGS at the outset explaining why she wanted a 
five-year rate. She didnt agree there was evidence of a two-year product being discussed. 
And said she didnt receive the suitability letter, which was wrongly addressed. Ms M said 
she accepted the mortgage offer without reviewing it as she relied on the expert she paid to 
advise her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
While I appreciate that Mrs M and Ms M will be disappointed, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I think they were  or ought reasonably to have been  aware that the application 
submitted by DGS was for a two-year product. In reaching my decision, Ive taken the 
following into account.
Ms M provided a copy of a mortgage illustration with a five-year product issued in August 
2021. DGS said it issued illustrations for mortgages with a two-year product and a five-
year product to a family friend who contacted it on behalf of Ms M in August 2021. DGS 
says the lender had withdrawn the five-year product before it gave advice to Ms M in 
September 2021. 
The fact find says the applicants were concerned about future interest rate rises. It also 
says the maximum early redemption period the applicants would accept was two years.
A mortgage illustration was issued in late October 2021 with a two-year product. This 
was just before the application (for a mortgage with a two-year product) was submitted to 
the lender.
DGSs recommendation letter says it recommended a mortgage with a two-year product. 
It refers to the mortgage illustration provided to Mrs M and Ms M and the telephone and 
email conversations in which theyd discussed and recorded their financial 
circumstances.
The mortgage offer issued on 2 December 2021 sets out a two-year product. I think its 
reasonable to expect Mrs M and Ms M to read the mortgage offer, which sets out the key 
terms of the mortgage including the interest rate, product term, fees and monthly 
payments. DGS sent emails to Ms M in December 2021 and January 2022 asking her to 
read the offer and check she was happy with the terms.
Ms M provided an extract from an email she sent to DGS in September 2021, in which 
she explains why a five-year rate would suit her. The context of this was the possibility of 
her taking out a mortgage jointly with her sibling who didnt want to be tied into the 
mortgage for more than five years. Ms M expected her income to increase sufficiently to 
re-mortgage in her sole name in five years. However, Ms M didnt apply for a mortgage 
with her sibling. She applied jointly with Mrs M.
While Ms M initially said she wanted a five-year rate, this doesnt necessarily mean DGS 
made an error. DGS had to recommend a mortgage that was suitable, based on Ms Ms 
circumstances and needs. 
Ms M didnt meet affordability criteria for the amount she wanted to borrow. So the 
application was made on a joint basis with Mrs M, a family member. Mrs M wasnt on the 
title for the security property, and DGS says there are limited lenders that offer 
mortgages on a joint borrowers/sole title basis. DGS said the two-year product it 
recommended was the only one Mrs M and Ms M were eligible for. 
DGS said Mrs M and Ms Ms application had issues with affordability and the two-year 
product was more affordable.
Ms M says she didnt receive the recommendation letter. She says it was only sent to 
Mrs Ms address. DGS said Ms M also gave this address as her own. It provided an email 
from Ms M saying shed moved to this address three weeks before. I dont think DGS made 
an error when it wrote to Mrs M and Ms M at this address.
However, there was an error in the postcode used for the letter. DGS said the letter wasnt 
returned undelivered. Ms M says neither applicant received it. 
The letter was also incorrectly dated 5 October 2021. DGS says this was an error and the 
recommendation letter was issued at the end of October 2021. This is consistent with the 
date of the mortgage illustration, which is referred to in the recommendation letter. 
Its unfortunate if Mrs M and Ms M didnt receive the suitability letter, and Ms M has raised 
concerns about the date of the letter. But this doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
I think there is sufficient other evidence of Ms M being made aware that the mortgage 
applied for had a two-year product  including the mortgage offer itself. 
On balance, I think DGS did discuss the two-year product with Ms M, and make her aware 
that it recommended a two-year product and submitted a mortgage application on this basis. 
And the mortgage offer, which Ms M received and accepted, set out the two-year product. If Ms M wanted a different product, she could have raised this before the mortgage completed. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require DGS to pay compensation to 
Mrs M and Ms M for them taking out a two-year product instead of the five-year product they 
now say they wanted.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman