DRN-3744974
The complaint
Ms W complains about the level of service provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc when she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy for damage to her cars window. She is also 
unhappy that AXA lodged the incident as a claim. Ms W wants £1,000 compensation. 
What happened
A window of Ms Ws car was damaged by someone trying to gain entry to it. Ms W contacted 
AXA and asked for her car to be taken to her service centre. But AXA declined to do this as 
this wasnt covered by the policy. Ms W then raised a complaint and a claim. As she had no 
response, Ms W had the window repaired privately. AXA paid her £150 compensation for the 
delay in its response and it also offered to consider Ms Ws out of pocket repair expenses. 
Ms W said she didnt need to proceed with the claim. But AXA recorded it as for notification 
only. Ms W was unhappy with this. She said she had been treated unfairly.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA 
wasnt required by the policys terms and conditions to recover Ms Ws car to a repairer to 
have the window repaired. She thought AXA had recorded the claim fairly as for notification 
only and Ms W could still raise a claim if she wished, but this would then be recorded. 
Ms W said she hadnt been treated fairly by AXA. She asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has explained that at the time of the incident she had a new baby and a child to get to 
school. She said the repairs cost her £300 and she was without her car for some days and 
had to use public transport. I can understand that this must have been a stressful and 
frustrating experience at a difficult time. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
From what I can understand, the damage to Ms Ws car was only to its window. I can see 
that Ms Ws policy has a section for glass claims. This says that repairs made by its 
approved repairer wont affect the consumers No Claims Discount (NCD). But the claims 
must be notified to a dedicated line. Repairs carried out by a non-approved repairer, as in 
Ms Ws case, have limits of £100 for replacement and £50 for repair. The cost of alternative 
transport is excluded. 
The morning after the attempted break-in, Ms W called AXA, but it wouldnt recover her car 
to her usual garage. Im satisfied that AXA wasnt required to do this by the policys terms 
and conditions. It offered to take the car to a secure lock-up, but Ms W wanted it repaired. 
Ms W couldnt contact the claims team by phone, so she emailed it to make a claim and a 
complaint. Unfortunately the call recording isnt available. But I have seen Ms Ws complaint 
letter and I can see that she then made it very clear that phone contact wasnt suitable for 
her. 
AXA responded the following day asking Ms W to call its claims team. But Ms W responded 
two days later reiterating that her preferred means of contact was email. I can see that this 
was then added to AXAs file notes. AXA responded to her email three days later. Ms Ws 
husband had taken their car to be repaired in the meantime. 
So I think the crux of Ms Ws complaint is that she was unable to get through to AXA to log 
her claim, there was a delay in its response to her, and it didnt contact her by her preferred 
means. And Ms W thought AXA had discriminated against her.
AXA agreed that there had been failings. When a business makes a mistake, as AXA 
accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able 
to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
Ms W told AXA that she had to have the car repaired privately in order to secure it. I can see 
that AXA told Ms W that it would consider her out of pocket repair expenses if she wished to 
make a claim. Ms W was unhappy with this. But I think thats fair and reasonable as it would 
restore Ms Ws position in keeping the policys terms and conditions for using a non-
approved repairer. 
And AXA paid Ms W £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused her when she 
couldnt get through on its phone line. I can understand that this must have been frustrating 
for Ms W. And I can see that she was unhappy that AXA tried to contact her by phone on 
two occasions after she had told it to email her. But I think this level of compensation is in 
keeping with our published guidance for the impact caused by the errors. And so I dont 
require AXA to increase this. 
Ms W was unhappy that AXA had recorded the incident as for notification only when it hadnt 
incurred any costs. But Im satisfied that AXA is required to record all incidents accurately so 
that other insurers are aware of drivers histories and the risks associated with them. So I 
cant require AXA to remove this record. 
Ms W said she thought AXA had discriminated against her as it hadnt taken into account her 
protected characteristics as a new mother. She said she couldnt spend long periods on the 
phone and required services by email. 
Its not my role to decide if there has been a breach of the Equality Act 2010. Thats a matter 
for the courts. But Ive taken it into account when considering this complaint as it is the 
relevant law. 
I agree that AXA tried to call Ms W and asked her to call it after she had made it aware of 
her preferred means of communication. This must have been frustrating for her. But I cant 
see that this caused Ms W any loss that warrants compensation in addition to what it has 
already paid her. From the evidence, I think AXA has treated Ms W fairly and reasonably in 
response to her complaint and claim. I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman