DRN-3614397
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s handling
of a subsidence claim made under a home insurance policy.
All references to RSA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Both parties have provided me with a timeline of events. My summary below is in far less
detail, but Id like to reassure both sides that Ive carefully read and considered everything
thats been submitted.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs R feel that aspects of this complaint should be directed to the
seller of the policy, but as the underwriter, RSA is ultimately responsible for deciding and
handling their claim, and are clearly defined as such in the policy documents. So, Ill be
referring to RSA throughout my decision.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs R reported some cracking in their property to RSA. They say that
they were asking for advice, but the matter was referred to a subsidence loss adjuster
straight away.
The loss adjuster arranged for investigations to the site and concluded the cracks were the
result of nearby vegetation causing instability in the soil. It recommended the vegetation be
removed.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with RSAs approach as they wanted to find out the cause and
stability of the cracks. And further, the potential options and consequences of any mitigation
works or repairs. So, they complained to RSA.
In summary Mr and Mrs Rs concerns were:
They were unhappy with the monitoring period suggested by the loss adjuster.
There were risks associated with removing the vegetation such as heave which
hadnt been sufficiently considered.
The policy provided for garden cover which conflicted with the proposal to remove 
the vegetation.
That the current repairs proposed didnt meet RSAs obligations as the insurer.
The impact of removing the vegetation on the local environment.
RSAs overall level of service in handling the claim.
In response, RSA said:
It was satisfied with the monitoring period in the circumstances and it would be kept
under review based on the results.
It didnt think the vegetation removal would cause heave as it was likely younger than
the property.
It didnt think there was a conflict of interest within the policy as the implicated
vegetation hadnt been damaged.
That the final scope of repairs hadnt yet been drawn up, as it was still in the process
of identifying and removing the cause of subsidence.
It would offer to replant the area where the vegetation was removed if the new
vegetations roots were confined.
It subsequently offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience and delay in
responding to their concerns.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. To put things right, they
asked that RSA:
Obtained sufficient evidence on which to base its proposals for the claim.
Met the costs of the surveys they commissioned and covered the costs of the
proposed works if required.
Indemnify them against any potential heave which might result from any proposed
vegetation removal works.
Entered a consumer redress scheme in order to respect the directive of the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA)
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They
concluded RSA had handled the claim fairly, up to the point it issued its final response letter
on 18 January 2021. And they couldnt see that RSA had been given the opportunity to
consider the surveys Mr and Mrs R commissioned. But they said that in any event, they
would only expect RSA to refund these surveys if they materially affected the outcome of the
claim.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In addition to points
previously raised they said:
They couldnt understand why the loss adjuster declined their request for a minimum
of 12 months monitoring  and this would take into account all seasonal changes.
The arboriculturist didnt make any judgement on the damage or whether the
property needed stabilising. Rather, their conclusions in relation to the vegetation
were subject to other causes having been excluded.
Based on their experience, the loss adjusters dont have sufficient expertise to deal
with the claim or interpret the results of any monitoring data.
They arent persuaded the matter should be classed as a subsidence claim, nor that
the evidence is sufficient to implicate the vegetation. They say the damage is classed
as slight and the indication now is that the cracks are stable.
Theyve received very poor service overall.
The complaint was passed to me and on 11 July 2022 I issued my provisional findings. Ive 
repeated an extract below:When making a decision on a complaint I usually consider matters as they stood at the time
the financial business issued its final response to the complaint (in this case 18 January
2021). However, occasionally its impractical to do so  for instance because the situation
has moved on or because further evidence has come to light. On these occasions I need to
consider things as they currently stand. In this case I will be considering the original
complaint and include the developments I find relevant in order to arrive at a fair and
reasonable answer.
Mr and Mrs R have posed several questions relating to the actions of RSA during the claim.
Theyve also asked for remedies relating to wider industry practice. Whilst Ive read and
acknowledge everything theyve said, my decision will be focussed on the individual
circumstances of this complaint. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to be
able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome.
This means I also wont be commenting on the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs R about the
wider regulatory framework and recommendations for consumer redress schemes. This isnt
intended as a discourtesy; Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues of this complaint.
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the
courts and the rules we operate under.
As I see it, the crux of the issue here is that Mr and Mrs R arent happy with either the scope
of RSAs investigations, or the proposed remedies put forward to mitigate any ground
movement  more specifically relating to the vegetation removal.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs concern that their priorities havent been considered by RSA
during the claim. But in principle, RSA can deal with the claim as it sees fit under the terms
of the policy. And this means it can take whichever approach it sees fit to stabilise the
property, as long as thats supported by the available evidence. And if it isnt then RSA
should do more investigations to establish the cause of the damage.
Therefore, I intend to consider:
Whether RSAs proposal for vegetation removal is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about the scope of RSAs investigations.
If any compensation is due for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs R.
Proposed method of stabilisation
RSAs position following its final response letter is that the vegetation needs removing to
stabilise the ground movement.
Mr and Mrs Rs position is that there isnt enough evidence to show the vegetation removal
is required. Mr and Mrs R have provided further information, including an independent expert
(who Ill refer to as F) report based upon a visual inspection to support their position.
RSAs loss adjuster states, The results of the site investigations confirm the cause of
subsidence is root-induced clay shrinkage...the cause of the movement needs to be dealt
with first. Due to the amount of vegetation surrounding the property we will now commission
an arborists report to confirm the extent of vegetation management required to achieve
stability.The arborists report states, We are instructed to provide opinion on whether moisture
abstraction by vegetation is a causal factor in the damage to the property and give
recommendations on what vegetation management, if any, may be carried out with a view to
restoring stability to the property...recommendations are made with reference to the
technical reports and information currently available
The arborists report goes on to identify vegetation within influencing distance of the
property, the vegetation considered to be the most significant in relation to the current
damage and provides recommendations for either removing or managing each one.
Ive next considered Fs report. F concluded:
The visit found some typical subsidence cracking confined to the front elevation of
the extension and, by proximity, the collapsed boundary wall to the front of the
property.
There is no subsidence cracking to the right or rear of the extension. In this respect,
the remit of the arboricultural report gained is too broad and should have
recommendations focused to the front right corner of the extension.
F recommended:
If the movement is slight, it will be possible to insert helibars [sic] within mortar joints
and expanded metal lath work in the plaster around the window openings as a
solution instead of tree felling. The existing tree management scheme would need to
be retainedwe recommend that following receipt of the monitoring datathe
[arboriculturist] report is revised to give more accurate and considered
recommendations.
I put Fs findings to RSA and asked what the additional monitoring data showed to date.
I asked RSA if the monitoring results still showed the vegetation needs to be removed, or
whether it would be willing to consider alternative forms of stabilisation (such as
pruning/vegetation management and inserting Heli-bars).
RSA referred the matter to a subsidence consultant who said, The level monitoring between
01/03/2021 and 17/06/2022 shows very minimal seasonal movement of less than 2mm. The
vegetation has been well maintained at its current heightThe Level Monitoring results
would not be sufficient to defend the need to remove the vegetation. Recommend that we
move to robust superstructure repairs incorporating Heli-bars and place the Policy Holder on
notice of possible future risk. There should be a Joint Site Visit with the contractor as the
extent of subsidence repairs is not detailed enoughfor a contractor to price.
So, taking everything into account, it now seems that upon review, RSAs proposed method
of dealing with the claim is similar to Fs findings. And Im satisfied that based on all the
evidence this approach seems reasonable and proportionate and will mitigate Mr and Mrs
Rs concerns about removing the vegetation.
Scope of investigations
RSA has confirmed it recently extended the monitoring to June 2022. RSA says this was
both for the avoidance of doubt, and to continue gathering evidence until it received the
findings from our service.So, as it appears that the property has now been monitored for over 12 months in line with
Mr and Mrs Rs original request, I find this part of their complaint has been satisfied in any
event. I dont think the initial delay to monitoring has impacted on the progression of the
claim, because until recently, the results of the monitoring werent sufficient to cause RSA to
depart from its initial approach to stabilising the movement.
Mr and Mrs R say they commissioned a drainage survey which has identified surface water
drainage issues which need addressing. In response, RSA said that the soil composition
didnt indicate a drainage issue which could be linked to the cause of the damage, as the
bore holes showed a very low moisture content.
Having carefully considered the evidence, Im more persuaded that the implicated vegetation
has been shown as the main intervening cause of the ground movement. So, Im not
persuaded RSA should be required to carry out further investigations as things stand. It
seems its surveyor has now proposed repairs in line with Fs recommendations, so I would
hope RSA now reengages with Mr and Mrs R to draw up the appropriate scope of works.
In regard to RSA reimbursing Mr and Mrs R for their independent reports  Ive considered
them, and whilst Fs recommendations are similar to what RSA has now proposed, I dont
think Fs report has materially affected the direction of the claim. I say this because RSAs
conclusions have been drawn from its own site investigations and current monitoring data,
supported by its own subsidence consultant. Therefore, I wont be requiring RSA to
reimburse these costs.
Compensation
Ive considered if compensation is due for any avoidable delays RSA was responsible for. I
would consider an avoidable delay to be one which is outside of the process by which both
parties determine the best way to proceed with the claim. And Ive also considered the
impact of RSAs request for Mr and Mrs R to remove the implicated vegetation.
The £100 already offered by RSA is in relation to its delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Rs
concerns. And I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I dont think RSA can be held wholly accountable for the any delays to date. I think part of
the delays can be fairly attributed to Mr and Mrs Rs level of engagement with the claim, and
RSAs efforts to respond to their ongoing queries.
Mr and Mrs R say they were pressured into removing the vegetation. Ive looked at the
relevant letters from RSA here. And whilst I dont agree that this amounts to exerting
pressure, RSA does make it clear that the onus on removing the vegetation falls onto
Mr and Mrs R as it says theres no cover under the policy for it.
I dont agree that RSAs approach was fair or reasonable here. In line with our services
general approach, should a consumer agree to the vegetation removal, then RSA should
cover the cost of these works as part of the claim. This is because we say that an insurer
should pay for any works required to stabilise the property and ensure the repairs are
effective and lasting. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs R were treated fairly.As such, I think RSA should compensate them for the upset that its instruction caused. And I
think £300 fairly reflects the upset caused here, in line with our services approach.
Ultimately, everything thats happened hasnt changed the fact that the vegetation has been
implicated as the cause of the ground movement. And both RSA and F agree that that
Mr and Mrs Rs property has been affected by subsidence to some degree. So, now that
RSA has revised its approach in line with the current monitoring evidence, both parties
should work together to progress the claim to a resolution.
I therefore said I intended to direct RSA to deal with the claim in line with the proposals put 
forward by its subsidence consultant, and pay a total £400 compensation to Mr and Mrs R.
Developments
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. RSA asked me to reconsider the 
compensation I awarded to Mr and Mrs R. It said that as Mr and Mrs R didnt agree to 
remove the vegetation, regardless of who pays, it therefore wasnt relevant to the claim or 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs R said in summary:
The substance of their complaint was the wholesale breach of their trust by the 
insurers in the handling of the claim.
That monitoring was only initiated as a result of the complaint being referred to our 
service. And that I should give an opinion on whether RSA had the right to refuse 
their initial reasonable request for monitoring.
That RSA had attempted to pressure them into complying with the vegetation 
removal because it caused the least short-term inconvenience, rather than 
supporting them in protecting the best interests of their home.
The insurer hadnt demonstrated the necessary expertise through its appointed 
agents to deal with the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen anything on review which leads me to a different conclusion 
than I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why below.
In response to RSA, I set out in my provisional decision that I was considering all relevant 
events in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome on this complaint. And in the 
circumstances of this claim, its clear from the evidence that the impact of potentially 
removing the vegetation caused Mr and Mrs R distress and upset. 
This was linked to the potential loss of privacy they currently enjoy, and the wider impact to 
the local wildlife which was clearly important to them. RSA maintained the position of 
removing the vegetation from early in the claim until recently  around the time I issued my 
provisional findings. I think in the circumstances, there was likely an opportunity for RSA to 
mitigate Mr and Mrs Rs concerns sooner  using its own evidence  rather than await my 
findings on the complaint. So, its reasonable to conclude that its position of instructing       
Mr and Mrs R to remove the vegetation had consequences in causing them upset whilst the 
claim and associated complaint has been ongoing.
For this reason, I maintain that RSA should compensate Mr and Mrs R for the upset caused.Mr and Mrs R have provided further information relating to the actions of the seller of the 
policy and highlighted their issues with the claim. Ive carefully read their submission, but as I 
set out in my provisional decision, Im not going to comment on every point raised and I dont 
think theres any material new evidence here which wasnt available to me when I set out my 
provisional findings. And Im satisfied that Ive already explained why Ive considered what I 
have. However, Ill comment briefly on some of Mr and Mrs Rs points below.
From what Ive seen, it appears an initial 6-month monitoring period was instructed in early 
2020 and before the complaint was referred to our service  most likely in response to Mr 
and Mrs Rs concerns. And whilst its clear Mr and Mrs R have been highly engaged with the 
claim, the test I set out originally stated:
in principle, RSA can deal with the claim as it sees fit under the terms of the policy. And 
this means it can take whichever approach it sees fit to stabilise the property, as long as 
thats supported by the available evidence. And if it isnt then RSA should do more 
investigations to establish the cause of the damage.
Therefore, whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling regarding the monitoring, 
it wasnt something that RSA was required to do under the terms of the policy. Ive 
previously concluded that RSAs approach was based on the relevant expert reports and 
information available at the time, and ultimately it retains the right to deal with the claim as it 
sees fit under the terms of the policy.
In any event, the property has now been subject to an extended period of monitoring which 
has presented an alternative solution to the claim, and one which I suspect will be more in 
line with Mr and Mrs Rs desire to keep the vegetation intact. 
So, having carefully reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs R, 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
Deal with the claim in line with the proposals put forward by its subsidence 
consultant.
Pay a total of £400 compensation to Mr and Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman