DRN-2554305
The complaint
Mr P complains about the damage charges Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) applied when he handed back a car hed acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr P entered into a hire agreement with VWFS to acquire a new car. An 
inspection was carried out on the car in September 2019, when Mr P returned it. The report 
recorded several areas of damage and VWFS explained that this level of damage to the car 
fell outside the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear 
guidelines. As a result, they said Mr P would be charged a total of £1,262.84 to cover this 
damage. 
Mr P said he accepts the excess mileage done but doesnt agree with some of the damage 
VWFS have charged him for. Mr P said he disagreed with VWFS conduct in demanding the 
disputed amount via a third-party debt collection agency. However, Mr P clarified with us 
during a call in November 2020, that he wanted us to focus on the damage charges part of 
his complaint. So, my decision will focus on this complaint point only.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and felt under the BVRLA guidelines some of the 
damage VWFS had charged for was unfair. VWFS agreed to remove those damage 
charges.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, he said fair wear and tear indicates 
a certain level of damage which was inevitable after two or three years of use. He also said 
he didnt think the amounts being charged were fair. Mr P said he wasnt given the 
opportunity to complete any repairs himself as the car was inspected and collected at the 
same time. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The BVRLA have produced industry guidance to help determine what a finance company 
can charge for when a car is returned. This is the starting point for me as it represents good 
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. I appreciate Mr P has said he doesnt think 
they can be relied upon to produce fair standards that rightly reflect the interest of customers 
in relation to what constitutes wear and tear. But the BVRLA is the trade body that oversees 
the vehicle rental and leasing sector. So, I think its fair for me to take into account these 
guidelines when deciding whether VWFS acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps hire agreement which say You agree 
to return the Vehicle to us at the end of the Hiring Period in good repair and condition except 
for fair wear and tear (as defined in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association Fair 
Wear and Tear Guide, which we will send to you if you ask us.)
I note VWFS have agreed to remove three charges following our investigators view. And I 
agree with our investigators recommendation that I dont think it was fair for VWFS to charge 
for these damages. As a result, I dont feel I need to consider these further and I expect 
VWFS to remove these charges from the overall amount theyre asking from Mr P:
Door RHF right hand front (£138)
Load area trim panel (£89.96)
Roof left hand front (£36.00)
Mr P says he accepts the charges for the following damage (taken from the vehicle 
inspection report):
Bumper front 
Door LHF left hand front door
Wing LHF left hand front
Although Mr P agrees to these items of damage, he said he was happy to agree to a 25% 
reduction in cost for these items. So rather than pay the £269.40 VWFS have charged for 
these, he proposed to pay £202.05. However, VWFS didnt agree to this. VWFS arent 
required to offer a reduction and I havent seen anything to persuade me VWFS have 
necessarily overcharged Mr P for these damages. Additionally, Mr P has accepted those 
damages, so I think its only fair he pays the full amount.
Whats left for me to consider is the outstanding damage charges which Mr P feels should be 
removed. Ive set out the damage being charged for, why its being charged, the repairs 
needed and also the cost VWFS intend to charge:
1.Door RHR right hand rear door More than 3 dents per Repair and refinish £138
2.Wing RHF right hand front More than 3 dents per Repair and refinish £138
3.Bonnet front 1st dent per vehicle Repair and refinish £138
4.QTR panel RHR right hand rear More than 3 dents per Repair and refinish £138
Ive looked at the images of the damage from the inspection report provided by VWFS and 
make the following findings on the items of damages from the above table:
1. VWFS have said this damage is chargeable because there are more than three 
dents. However, I think its chargeable for a different reason. I say this because I can 
see theres a dent on the swage line, which the BVRLA guidance says is outside fair 
wear and tear. Therefore, I think this is a fair charge.
2. I note Mr Ps comment that the report charges for a dent but rather than a dent, he 
says theres a scratch. However, I can see from the last image in the report that the 
tool used by the inspector shows a distorted reflection. And I can see this distortion 
measures more than 15mm. The BVRLA guidance says dents of 15mm or more fall 
outside of fair wear and tear. On that basis this damage also falls outside of fair wear 
and tear and is chargeable.
3. The BVRLA guidance says dents under 15mm can be considered wear and tear and 
are not chargeable, provided the paint surface isnt broken. Ive looked carefully at 
the three images the report has of this damage and I feel this charge is fair. I dont 
think image one is clear, but I can see from image two that the dent measures more 
than 15mm and the bare metal is showing. So, I think its fair for VWFS to charge for 
this.
4. The inspection report notes the damage being more than three dents per panel. I can only see two dents, but I can see the dents are on the swage line. The BVRLA 
guidelines say dents on the swage line on any panel arent acceptable. So, its for 
this reason I think this charge is fair.
I understand Mr P says he wasnt able to be present for the inspection and wasnt given the 
opportunity to put anything right or contest the damage he was being charged for. Mr P says 
the time that was arranged for the inspection wasnt suitable for him. However, as per the 
terms of Mr Ps agreement, he agreed to return the car in good condition except for fair wear 
and tear as defined in the BVRLA guidance. And Mr P wouldve been aware of these terms. 
So, if Mr P did want to repair any damages himself before the inspection, he couldve done 
so. 
Mr P says the BVRLA guidance is silent on what a fair charge for repair work should be. And 
that he thinks this allows for VWFS to place any figure they choose on the work that needs 
to be carried out. I appreciate Mr Ps concerns; however, I havent seen anything to suggest 
its the BVRLAs role to place a charge on repairs for damages. 
In any case, the company who carried out the inspection of Mr Ps car are an independent 
expert third party. And I can see theyve put an estimated cost for each repair in the 
inspection report  which appear to be the same amounts VWFS are intending to charge Mr 
P. I havent seen anything to persuade me that theyve inflated the price of the repair or have 
suggested an unnecessary repair. With that said, I dont find it likely the charges the 
inspection company have put forward is out of kilter with normal industry charging practice.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P. But having thought about 
everything, I think its fair for VWFS to charge Mr P for the outstanding damages as listed in 
the table above. And for the damage Mr P has accepted, VWFS have acted fairly in saying 
they wont reduce the amount they expect him to pay. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I agree with our investigators recommendation that VWFS should remove 
the three damage charges which are the door RHF right hand front, the load area trim panel 
and the roof left hand front (as named in the inspection report) from the overall amount Mr P 
owes.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) to remove the three charges as explained under the putting 
things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman