The complaint
Mr E and Miss H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly collected payments from 
their account in the middle of September and then again at the beginning of October 2019.
What happened
Mr E and Miss H got a new mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage was drawndown at the 
end of August 2019. They agreed to pay the mortgage payments each month by direct debit 
and the preferred repayment date was the first day of each month. Barclays took a first 
payment from their account on 16 September 2019 and then a further payment on 1 
October. Mr E and Miss H say that it was unfair for Barclays to do this and contrary to the 
terms of the direct debit mandate. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as felt that Barclays had acted fairly and had told Mr E and Miss H what it 
would do in the mortgage offer, terms and conditions and a notice about the first payment. 
Mr E and Miss H disagreed saying in summary that it was unfair for Barclays to take two 
payments in a month and other mortgage lenders didnt do the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the strength of Mr E and Miss Hs feelings about this complaint. They agreed to 
make a monthly payment each month and that it be paid on the first of each month. I note 
that according to Barclays it released the money to complete the purchase to Mr E and Miss 
Hs solicitor on 28 August. As the mortgage then completed Mr E and Miss H would be due 
to make a monthly payment to Barclays in September. Their preferred repayment date was 
the first of each month but Barclays told Mr E and Miss H in a letter headed First Payment 
Notice that it would collect the money on 16 September when it would collect the regular 
monthly payment and a small amount of interest due for August 2019. After that payments 
would commence on the first day of each month beginning in October, My understanding of 
why the bank didnt collect the money on the first of the month is that it takes some time to 
set up the direct debit and work out the interest for the previous month. 
So, the difficulty I have in upholding Mr E and Miss Hs complaint is that they were aware 
that they would have to make a payment to Barclays each month and Barclays told them 
when and how it would collect it and this it did. Ive also looked at Barclays terms and 
conditions which says that customers should make their monthly payments on the day of the 
month they are due and that the payment date would be set out in the their first payment 
notice. The first payment notice said it would collect the money on the first  
DRN-1865489It seems that Mr E and Miss H thought the notice from Barclays was incorrect as they had 
already got a letter from Barclays dated 23 August 2019 containing incorrect information 
about the mortgage balance. But the notice of the payment dates actually says when the 
payments will be taken and how much those payments are and I consider it clear and 
sufficient notice to Mr E and Miss H as to when the payments were to be taken. Part of Mr E 
and Miss Hs complaint is that they were being treated differently than of they were 
customers of alternative lenders. They of course have a contract with Barclays and are 
governed by the terms of that contract. 
But I also looked at the website of another major lender to see how in managed the first 
payment. It says that the first payment will always be due in the month after you complete 
your mortgage and will normally be on the day of the month youve asked us to take your 
monthly payments  except  if you complete less than four working days before the end of 
the month, well move the payment to the 10th of the following month  and then it will go 
back to the normal date the following month. The reason for the 10th is to make sure that 
the right payment is collected as it will include both the agreed monthly payment together 
with interest from the day the mortgage completed until the end of the previous month. 
Thats very similar to Barclays except for Barclays collection of the direct debit  was on 16th 
rather than 10th. 
Mr E and Miss H referred me to another major lender and I note in their terms and conditions 
it says that You must pay your monthly payments on the payment date in every month. As, 
Mr E and Miss Hs payment date was the first of each month, on the basis of thoses terms, 
they would have had to make a payment on 1 September and 1 October. So, I dont see that 
those terms put Mr E and Miss H in a better position than with Barclays. Miss Es says that 
her sister didnt make a payment at all in the month of September after completing in August. 
Whilst I accept that, it doesnt seem in line with that lenders terms. In any case Im looking at 
Barclays terms and it does seem to me that Mr E and Miss H were charged in line with those 
terms and that those terms are similar to another major lender and cant be said to be 
abnormal.
One other issue is that Mr E and Miss H say that Barclays collected the money on the 16th 
and not on the agreed date which was the 1st. But Barclays told them thats what it was 
going to do and Mr E and Miss H didnt object nor do I believe that Mr E and Miss H suffered 
any disadvantage if the money was collected on the 16th rather than 1st of September. 
Although I can see how strongly they feel about this, and from reading what they say, I can 
see how it has affected Mr E and Miss H. But for the above reasons I cant say that Barclays 
has acted unfairly and so I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.Gerard McManus
Ombudsman