DRN-3491055
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her three 
packaged bank accounts. The first was an Additions account that was taken out around May 
1996. The second account was an Additions account that was taken out in November 2001 
and the third account was an Additions Active account taken out in February 2009.
Miss A has explained that she thought that she had to have all these accounts in order to 
keep and increase her overdraft limits.
 
Miss A also may be unhappy with the Tech and Travel pack that was added to her account 
in 2017. Miss A also says she tried to downgrade her account to a fee free account but was 
unable to do so.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the accounts had been mis-
sold. Or that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the packs or downgrade issues. Miss 
A disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Additions account taken out around May 1996 
In relation to this sale, the first thing I need to consider is whether Miss A was given a fair 
choice as to whether to take out the account. 
Miss A says that she took out this account in order to maintain and increase her overdraft 
facility. Given the timescale involved Barclays does not have a record of Miss As overdraft 
at this time. So it may have been the case that she had no overdraft prior to the upgrade. But 
when this account was likely taken out, it cost £5 per month and came with an interest free 
overdraft buffer zone of £100. And by having the Additions account, Miss A would not have 
had to pay the £5 monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable to fee-free accounts). I 
can see from Barclays earliest records Miss A did regularly use her overdraft at and so I 
think it is likely that having the Additions account meant that she was likely to have saved 
money on a monthly basis when it was initially taken out, compared to what she was likely 
being charged in interest and charges to use or have overdraft on a fee-free account. 
So overall I think that Miss A agreed to the Additions account knowing that she did not have 
to. And I think its likely she agreed to it because of the benefits that it came with. I say this 
because the main benefit at the time that it was taken out was the interest free overdraft.
 
This account was taken out without a personal recommendation being made, so Barclays 
did not need to ensure that the account was right for Miss A. But it was required to give Miss 
A enough information about the account, so she understood what she was agreeing to. 
Given the circumstances of this complaint, I do not know what Miss A was told about the 
account. But I think that main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the account seem 
attractive. I accept that Miss A may not have been told everything about all of the benefits 
that the account came with, but I cannot see anything specific that Miss A was not told that I 
think wouldve put her off agreeing to the account. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think this Additions account was mis-
sold. 
Additions Account taken out in November 2001
Turning now to the sale of the second Additions account, again I need to consider whether 
Miss A was given a fair choice to take out the account. Miss A has again said that she took 
out this account in order to obtain a larger overdraft facility and the records suggest that she 
did increase her overdraft around this time. But by this point she had held an overdraft on a 
fee free account for a number of years. So I think she wouldve been aware that overdrafts 
were generally available on a fee-free account. What I think that she recalls is that she was 
told that taking out the Additions account would allow her to get an interest free overdraft of 
£250 - with preferential rates on agreed overdraft limits above this amount. So I think on 
balance that Miss A took out this account knowing she did not have to, and that she most 
likely agreed to it because she wanted to increase her overdraft but also to pay less interest 
than she wouldve done on a fee free account, when using it. 
Like the previous Additions account, this one was taken out without a personal 
recommendation being made, so Barclays did not need to ensure that the account was right 
for Miss A. But it was required to give Miss A enough information about the account, so she 
understood what she was agreeing to. 
Again, I do not know what Miss A was told about the account. But I think that the main 
benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the account seem attractive. I accept that Miss A 
may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I 
cannot see anything specific that Miss A was not told about, that I think wouldve put her off 
agreeing to the account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the second Additions account was    
mis-sold either. 
Additions Plus Account
Turning now to the sale of the Additions Plus account. Again, Miss A says that she took out 
this account in order to increase her overdraft facility. But I cant see that she changed her 
overdraft limit at this point.
Based on Barclays records, a personal recommendation was made so it had to ensure that it 
was suitable for Miss A based on her circumstances at the time. But overall, given her 
circumstances, this account does seem a reasonable fit for her at the time of the sale. 
I say this because, when Miss A took out this account, the main difference of this account 
from the Additions account was that it came with travel insurance. It also, at the time, came 
with breakdown cover and an interest free overdraft, amongst other things. From what I can see from Miss As bank statements, it does appear that she did travel. So I think that she 
probably agreed to this account at the time because of this additional benefit and to continue 
to benefit from  breakdown cover and an interest free overdraft facility. 
Again, I do not know what Miss A was told about the account. But I think that the main 
benefits wouldve been discussed, and possibly a comparison made between what the 
Additions Plus account provided compared to what she already had. I dont know what Miss 
A was told about the other benefits that the account came with, but, like the other sales, I 
have not seen enough to be satisfied that there was something specific that she was not told 
about that may have changed her decision to take out this account. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions Plus account was    
mis-sold either. 
The Tech and Travel packs
I am not certain that Miss A is complaining about these packs, although I note that they have 
been addressed in the complaint previously. But even if Miss A is unhappy about the packs,  
they were not actually sold to her. 
What happened was that the Additions Plus account was removed from the range of 
accounts that Barclays offered. All account holders were migrated to a fee free account with 
Tech and Travel packs added. Barclays was entitled to do this providing it gave notice to all 
affected account holders and clearly set out the options that were available. I can see that 
Barclays wrote to Miss A prior to the migration happening, explaining what was going to 
happen and what her options were  which included opting our of the packs from being 
added to her account. So I cant see Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
Miss A has also said that she tried to downgrade her account on many occasions but was 
prevented from doing so. She says she was told that if she downgraded her account, she 
would lose her entire overdraft facility. Barclays has no record of these requests and there is 
not enough for me to say that a formal downgrade request was ever made. So overall there 
is not enough for me to say that Barclays failed to carry out Miss As instructions or mis-led 
her.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Miss A and I accept that, with hindsight, she 
may now regret agreeing to these accounts. But I am satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that Miss A agreed to these accounts knowing that she did not have to. And I think 
its more likely that she did so because there were benefits that she was attracted to at the 
time. 
I can see that Miss A may not have used these benefits as much as she may have thought 
she would when she initially agreed to these accounts. But this does not mean that Barclays 
should not have sold these accounts to her in the first place. So overall I am unable to 
recommend that Barclays refund any of Miss As account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman