DRN-2082295
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim for accidental damage to a set 
of speakers, as the damage was caused as they were being cleaned. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr N holds the policy jointly with Mrs N, but for ease I will only refer to Mr N in this decision 
as he is the one that is subject to the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate Mr N has said he followed the published guidance of a well-known 
speaker manufacturer. However, the policy exclusion is clear that damage caused 
through the act of cleaning is not covered. 
Mr N has said AXA stipulates items should be cleaned/well maintained in order to be 
covered under the policy, but the exclusion used in this case runs contrary to this. 
The section of the policy Mr N has referred to relates to AXA offering to replace items 
on an old for new basis if it would cost more to repair that item than its value. In that 
type of case, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect an insurer to provide a 
brand-new replacement, if an item hadnt previously been taken care of. However, 
that isnt what has happened here. 
An insurer is able to choose which perils it wishes to provide cover for. In this 
instance, AXA has excluded damage caused through the act of cleaning. I think it 
has acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Ns claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr N was initially told the claim was covered, and there was a delay in him being 
given the correct information. AXA has offered £100 compensation for this, which I 
think is reasonable. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ns frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman