DRN-4164457
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels 
dealt with a claim she made under her car insurance policy. Mr C is helping Miss M with her 
complaint. 
What happened
In February 2021 Miss M was involved in an incident with another vehicle and she made a 
claim to her insurer, esure. 
In November 2022 esure closed the claim as a fault claim. It said it did this because it didnt 
hear from Miss M to assist with the claim to aid in recovering the costs from the third party. 
Miss Ms representative Mr C raised a complaint on her behalf. He said esure had 
outsourced the claim to another business which charged a premium rate for calls. He said 
Miss M had attempted to call, but there were wait times and he didnt think it fair for esure to 
have done this or closed the claim. Mr C said esure should have contacted the police officer 
who attended the scene. They had provided photos of the incident and he believed esure 
had everything it needed to settle the claim. 
esure didnt uphold the complaint. It said as it didnt hear from Miss M when asking if she 
would agree to attend court, it had no option but to eventually close the claim. 
Mr C brought Miss Ms complaint to us. Our Investigator didnt think esure had done anything 
wrong. Mr C didnt agree. In summary he says esure failed to contact the police officer who 
attended to obtain the necessary information to settle the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability. This is a role for the courts. Miss M has a very common term under 
her policy which allows esure to settle a claim as it sees fit, even if Miss M may not agree 
with this. We dont think this term is wrong in principle provided an insurer can show it 
treated a customer fairly and reached its decision reasonably. 
When liability is disputed, an insurer can decide to either proceed to court for an outcome or 
settle the claim. An insurer can only recover its costs either through admission and 
agreement of liability by a third party or if a Judge makes such an award. 
It is outside of the control of esure when a third party disputes liability. From esures notes, it 
shows that it asked the police for a report in April 2021. The police responded to confirm that 
there wasnt a report, but a police summary. esure concluded this wouldnt be enough to 
persuade a third party to accept liability. So I think esure did investigate the information the 
police had in relation to the incident and made a decision about that evidence. This was 
esures decision to make. 
Even so, esure passed Miss Ms claim to solicitors to pursue a recovery of her costs. And 
they were prepared to take the matter to court. But I dont think the solicitors request for 
Miss M to confirm she would attend court was unreasonable - or that this request was 
outside the expectation under the policy to co-operate with the claim. 
I can see that esure and the solicitors attempted to make contact with Miss M in August 
2021, February 2022, and July 2022 to ask her to confirm she would attend court in relation 
to her claim. 
Solicitors contacted esure to ask for their assistance and on 23 February 2022, esure sent 
an email to Miss M. It read:
With reference to the ongoing claim from February 2021, we are looking to progress 
the claim to court as the third party is not accepting liability.
Please can you contact (name inserted here), our solicitor from (name of solicitors 
inserted here) on (telephone number inserted here) to discuss this further as we 
need your co-operation in the matter.
If you have any concerns or questions for us, please call (esures number inserted 
here) or email (esures department email inserted here).
On 7 July 2022 solicitors asked esure to contact Miss M again to ask for assistance. esures 
email to Miss M read:
Good Afternoon
Please can you contact esure to discuss your claim. Regarding (name of solicitors 
inserted here) who require your assistance.
Please contact (contact number inserted here).
I understand Mr C says that Miss M called a couple of times, but they are unhappy that it 
was a chargeable number. I cannot comment on a businesss decision as to what it charges 
for calls. I cannot say that the request for Miss M to assist with the claim was unreasonable. 
Unfortunately dealing with a claim will inevitably involve a degree of disruption and 
inconvenience for a customer. 
Whether esure decided to obtain the information from the police that Mr C believes it should 
have isnt relevant to the outcome of the claim in this case. I appreciate that Mr C may be of 
the view that if esure had obtained a statement from the attending police officer and witness 
statements - if available - that this would have enabled esure to settle the claim as a non-
fault claim without further involvement from Miss M. But that is speculation. An insurer 
cannot force the outcome of a claim. It isnt unusual for a claim which seems clear cut in 
terms of liability to be disputed. The actions by a third party insurer is outside the control of 
esure. 
A solicitor examines the evidence and considers the prospects for success before making 
the decision to proceed to court - and doesnt take the decision to do so unless they are 
confident of the chances of success, given the risks and costs involved. In this case the 
solicitors on behalf of esure were prepared to proceed to court. So I dont find that the police 
information - or perceived lack of it by Mr C - had a bearing on the settlement of this claim. 
Without confirmation of the attendance of Miss M in court, esure and the solicitors couldnt 
proceed. Im satisfied that esure and the solicitors made Miss M aware of this requirement - 
and that it closed the claim because it didnt hear from her. 
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think esure acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman