DRN-3398361
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him unsuitable 
investment advice.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mr H by a claims management company but to 
keep things simpler, Ill refer to Mr H as the complainant.
What happened
Mr H sought investment advice from a financial adviser on behalf of Aviva in May 2000. 
He did so after he had inherited a sum of money.
Acting on the advisers recommendation, Mr H invested a lump sum of £10,000 in a 
managed bond that was described as a deferred distribution fund. Several months after he 
did this, he contacted Aviva again and switched his funds into another managed bond 
described as a with profits sub fund. 
Mr H was looking to invest as he wanted his funds to have greater potential for growth 
compared to conventional deposit-based savings accounts.
Mr H made several withdrawals throughout the life of the bond and surrendered the 
investment in 2015. In total he received around £12,990 from withdrawn amounts and from 
the final surrender value of the bond combined. 
Mr H felt that, as an inexperienced first-time investor, he was advised to take too much 
risk when investing.
When Mr H complained to Aviva, it said his complaint was out of time and it was too late 
to complain about what happened in 2000. It said he ought to have known at the time he 
surrendered the bond, whether he had a complaint or not, this being in 2015.  An 
investigator asked for Avivas permission to look into the complaint on the merits after 
telling it why he felt our service should look into it. Aviva decided that we could
investigate Mr Hs complaint. So, the investigator looked into what happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He felt Aviva had 
gathered enough information in order to be able to provide a recommendation. He 
then felt overall that Avivas investment recommendation had been reasonable as it 
broadly reflected Mr Hs risk attitude and met the recorded investment objective of 
capital growth within the fact find that its adviser carried out. Our investigator was 
satisfied that Mr H had ample emergency cash savings to fall back on if needed. So, 
he didnt feel he had seen enough to uphold the complaint.
Mr H disagreed. He said that as a first-time investor the risk level recommended was too 
high. Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the crux of Mr Hs complaint is whether the advisor on behalf of Aviva 
gave advice that was suitable for him at that time. So, I have looked into this further.
I have first of all looked at what Aviva gathered. I can see that it completed a fact find in 
order to use the answers provided. I think Aviva was entitled to rely on what Mr H said 
here and that the answers provided were a reflection of what Mr H wanted at that time. 
Although the form wasnt filled in as comprehensively as it could have been, I think the 
adviser had gathered enough to be able to make a recommendation. 
When thinking about whether Aviva gave Mr H suitable investment advice, keeping in 
mind that all investment carries some degree of financial risk, Ive thought about the 
following key questions:
was Mr H in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest? If so,
thinking in particular about the amount invested and the risk this involved, was 
the investment advice Aviva provided suitable for Mr H?
With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mr Hs financial situation in 2000 when 
Aviva provided investment advice and made its recommendations to Mr H.
I dont know the full extent of discussions about Mr Hs financial situation that took place 
between the parties. But looking at Avivas fact find document completed during the 
meeting in May 2000, when Mr H sought advice from Aviva, he had around £41,000 in a 
deposit account, made up of monies received from an inheritance and also from an 
existing cash ISA. His property was also listed down as an asset. 
Mr H was in secure employment. He told the adviser wasnt looking to retire in the short 
term and didnt foresee any changes in income. He said he had disposable income 
each month of £100.  
Theres nothing to suggest Mr H expected to have any large expenses or that he told 
Aviva he had any big spending plans for his money. Latterly he has told our service he 
was looking to spend all but £13,000 of it on home improvements. But I cant see that 
Aviva would have known this at that time.
According to the fact find that Aviva carried out, I think it's fair to say that Mr H looked to be 
in a position where he could afford to invest some of his cash with the aim of capital 
growth. Mr H looked to invest £10,000, leaving £6000 in a cash ISA and £25,000 on 
deposit for any unexpected expense. 
I dont think the amount Mr H was looking to invest was too much in his particular 
circumstances and I dont think the adviser ought to have had any concerns at this stage 
about that or that he couldnt afford to invest. And so, Ive gone on to think carefully about 
whether the fund Aviva recommended was suitable for Mr Hs needs - which seems to 
me to be the central part of his complaint.
Mr H has told our service he was a first-time investor. So, I think it's fair to say his financial 
experience was limited. Aviva needed to take this into account and ensure Mr H was given the advice he needed to understand his investment options before accepting the 
recommendation.
Aviva has produced paperwork including a fact find document showing that
Mr H was asked a series of questions to find out what he thought about his financial 
situation and what he wanted his money to achieve. Mr H then signed this document.
Mr H told Aviva that he wanted a return on his money and the potential for capital growth. In 
the recommendation letter the adviser says: 
We have discussed the greater security inherent in deposit type accounts. However, youre 
prepared to exchange this security for the potential greater returns available in the longer 
term (i.e. five years) from investment in equities.
This suggests to me a conversation was had about Mr Hs risk attitude. This led to Aviva 
identifying Mr Hs investment approach as moderate secure  which was the third of 
four options in identifying Mr Hs attitude towards investment. The four categories on the 
fact find form were listed as guaranteed, highly secure, moderately secure and 
moderately speculative. So, I think, by choosing a higher category from those listed, Mr 
H was demonstrating his willingness to take on risk in order to achieve his objective of 
growth.
The fact find also lists a question do you have a specific sum in mind you wish to invest at 
the moment? and the answer given is yes £10,000. So, the adviser would have 
ascertained from Mr H that he wanted to invest £10,000, he was looking for growth and 
was willing to take on some risk to obtain it. And as I have already concluded he was at that 
time in a position to invest the amount he wanted to.
The adviser from Aviva recommended the Deferred Distribution Fund. The guide provided 
by Aviva regarding this fund, describes it as follows: 
Deferred Distribution Fund
Aim: steady long-term growth arising from both income and capital from a diversified 
portfolio of UK securities.
Risk grade: Moderately Secure
Profile: the funds cautious investment strategy was developed from the original 
Distribution Fund. Its asset mix is broadly similar, focusing on top quality UK holdings. The 
difference is that this fund does not aim to produce an income, but channels its efforts
into making money grow by immediately reinvesting any income its assets produce.
The description provided seems to me to fairly reflect and match Mr Hs risk attitude and his 
objectives as shown in the fact find. I dont think Aviva had any reason to think that Mr H had 
misunderstood its advice or that he lacked capacity to decide this matter for himself after 
having had advice from Aviva.
And I think that the recommendation to invest around £10,000 in this particular bond 
does recognise Mr Hs investment priorities whilst fairly reflecting his moderate secure 
risk approach, as discussed by him with the adviser. 
I think, on balance, that he had the capacity to take on the risk he had agreed to as well. 
I say this because of Mr Hs financial circumstances at that time. Mr H held a further 
£31,000 in inheritance cash and from his cash ISA. The amount Mr H was investing from this represented around a quarter of his overall cash reserves. So, although he 
held relatively low disposable income, and hadnt taken on this type of risk before, he 
held three quarters of his overall cash reserves. So, I think at the time the adviser 
recommended this investment, Mr H had the capacity to absorb any losses from the 
assets he held. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr H knew he was signing up to a level of risk for 
this particular investment in order to obtain the capital growth he hoped for, and he held 
the capacity to take on this risk. The investment seemed affordable for him too. All in all, 
this leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me think that the bond 
was too risky for Mr H or otherwise unsuitable or that any other advice Aviva provided 
was unsuitable.
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman