DRN-4226109
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) didnt 
pay the proceeds of his pension plan within the 2021-2022 tax year as it said it would. He 
says that as a result he paid more income tax than he should have done which he could 
have avoided by deferring his state pension from the following tax year. He also complains 
about Scottish Friendlys delay in acknowledging and dealing with his complaint.  
What happened
On 15 February 2022 Mr H contacted Scottish Friendly with a view to fully encashing the 
pension policy he held with it. Mr H wanted the transaction to be completed within the 
2021-2022 tax year. He was sent the relevant paperwork on 17 February 2022 which 
included all the available retirement options. It noted a fund valuation of £20,719.03. Mr H 
returned the documents which were received by Scottish Friendly on 4 March 2022. 
On 21 March 2022 Scottish Friendly contacted Mr H to see if he had considered the option 
of an enhanced annuity based on what hed stated within his completed risk questionnaire. 
Mr H confirmed his intention (to draw the benefits) and on 24 March 2022 he contacted 
Scottish Friendly to check on the status of his request  and was told the payment should be 
made that tax year. But four days later Scottish Friendly told Mr H that it wouldnt be possible 
to complete the payment within that tax year.
So Mr H complained. He said hed been told his pension would be paid to him within the 
2021-2022 tax year, and if hed been told that wouldnt be the case, he would have deferred 
his state pension. He said that, because of the delay, hed paid income tax of £2,716.80 on 
the proceeds instead of £589.20. 
Initially Scottish friendly upheld the complaint and accepted it had caused delays in 
processing the claim which, more likely than not, prevented payment being made in the 
2021-2022 tax year. It paid Mr H compensation of £250 and said it would consider his other 
financial loss (the income tax) on receipt of information from HMRC.
Mr H subsequently provided further information from HMRC and in August 2022 Scottish 
Friendly accepted that it had caused Mr H to suffer a financial loss and that it would pay 
additional compensation of £2,069.28. But this was based on a fund value from August as 
Scottish Friendly said it was unable to backdate the value to March 2022.  It sent Mr H a 
letter dated 26 September 2022 confirming it would be paying the compensation to his 
account.
 
But Mr H was unhappy with this outcome as he believed it didnt take into account the 
interest he would have earned on the compensation if it had been paid within the 2021-2022 
tax year - nor did it use the fund value that would have been applicable at that time. So he 
brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He said it 
should be upheld because he thought that Scottish Friendly deprived Mr H of the use of his 
funds from April 2022 and should pay simple interest at 8% on the pension payment from 
5 April 2022.
Scottish Friendly didnt agree with the outcome as it said that the delay in processing the 
payment until September was caused by Mr H as it provided the necessary forms to him in 
April 2022  but he didnt return them. So it didnt think it was fair for it to pay late payment 
interest.
The investigator sought further clarification from Scottish Friendly and revised his opinion of 
what should be done to put things right. He said that Scottish Friendly should compare the 
payments Mr H had received from the fund with what he would have received if payment had 
been made on 28 March 2022  these payments should be reduced notionally using Mr Hs 
marginal rate of tax during this time. He said that if this represented a loss to Mr H that loss 
should be brought up to date using a benchmark reasonably equivalent to the returns he 
would have received by putting his money into a savings account.
Scottish Friendly remained of the view that it had already paid sufficient compensation and 
didnt think wed taken sufficient notice of the length of time it took Mr H to return his pension 
forms after April 2022. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. I set out a revised 
method to calculate the redress which ensured his tax position would be restored to what it 
would have been had the payments been made in the 2021-2022 tax year. I also set out how 
Scottish Friendly should calculate the financial loss Mr H may have suffered by not being 
able to put the payments he should have received within the earlier tax year into his savings 
account.
Neither party had any further comments to make following the provisional decision, so I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings and Ill reiterate the reasons for my 
conclusion below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H contacted Scottish Friendly in February 2022 to encash his pension policy and wanted 
to receive the proceeds within the 2021-2022 tax year. However, although Scottish Friendly 
suggested to Mr H that the transaction would occur within the specified tax year  this didnt 
happen. Scottish Friendlys complaint response from June 2022 set out its position. Whilst 
the customer helpline agents did not guarantee you would benefit from your policy in the last 
financial year, if we had not delayed sending our requirements, I have no doubt you would 
have been able to claim on the benefits within the 2021-2022 tax year and I am sorry for the 
impact our delay has caused you financially.
So theres no dispute here that both parties accept that Mr Hs benefits should have been
paid within the 2021-2022 tax year. Therefore my main consideration is whether the redress 
and additional compensation that Scottish Friendly offered is fair and reasonable. 
Scottish Friendlys offerWhen I looked at Scottish Friendlys calculation I thought it was fair in the way that it 
calculated the tax that had been due. But it seemed inconsistent with Scottish Friendlys 
position that it ought to have paid the benefits within the 2021-2022 tax year, for it to use a 
fund value from September 2022  which was when Mr H eventually returned the forms 
needed to release his pension. I thought that if Scottish Friendly thought it should have paid 
the benefits earlier, then it should have used a fund value from the 2021-2022 tax year as 
well.
Scottish Friendly says that because Mr H delayed the return of the forms - which it had 
previously issued in April 2022 - it shouldnt have to pay either late interest or redress based 
on an earlier fund value. But I dont think Mr H was focused on returning the forms promptly 
after the end of the tax year as he was trying to get the other information Scottish Friendly 
wanted from HMRC to resolve his complaint. I think he wanted the matter to be sorted out 
before worrying about returning the outstanding forms. 
I dont think it was materially important when the forms were returned after the end of the 
2021-22 tax year, as Scottish Friendly had already accepted it should have paid benefits 
within the 2021-2022 tax year. So my view is that it should have used a fund value from 
around that time  based on when it thought it would reasonably have made the payment 
within the 2021-22 tax year.
When should the value of the plan have been calculated from? 
Ive thought carefully about the date that should be used to calculate Mr Hs pension benefits 
and any compensatory tax refund. Our investigator said it should have been 28 March 2022, 
but I dont think the available evidence supports the position that payment would have been 
made on this date. Mr H contacted Scottish Friendly on 24 March 2022 to check upon the 
status of the transaction and was told the funds should be paid by the end of the tax year  
but I note that stage three of Scottish Friendlys process hadnt been completed at that point. 
This involved the issuing of the forms that were eventually sent out in April 2022. So, I think 
its unlikely these forms could have been sent to Mr H  and returned, so that payment could 
be made by 28 March 2022. And I also note that two of the four days here spanned a 
weekend.
But of course, I still need to establish which date I think could have been used, and in doing 
so I note that Scottish Friendlys transfer process has four stages. Scottish Friendly is 
entitled to use whatever process it has decided upon  as long as it completes a customers 
request within a reasonable timeframe, and it makes them aware of the various stages and 
the likely time it could take to complete. But I dont think Scottish Friendly satisfied either 
requirement here. During the two conversations it had, it suggested payment should be 
made within the 2021-2022 tax year. I think this was unlikely to be achievable based on 
Scottish Friendlys actual process.
Im also mindful that some parts of the process  such as the two to three weeks that 
Scottish Friendly took to confirm if Mr H wanted to use an open market option and consider 
enhanced annuities with other providers, seemed drawn out in these circumstances. Id 
usually expect Scottish Friendly to have been made Mr H aware of that facility within the 
initial pack it sent him on 17 February 2022.
This makes it all the more difficult to be specific about fixing a date by which Scottish 
Friendly either had all the outstanding information and any requirements to pay or was in a 
position to complete payment of the benefits. But I am nevertheless satisfied that the 
payment ought to have been made by the end of the 2021-22 tax year- which is the position 
that Scottish Friendly adopted as well.Therefore, I think the only reasonable course of action here is to tell Scottish Friendly to set 
the final fund value calculation date as the last possible date of the tax year which would
have then allowed it to pay Mr Hs pension benefits within the 2021-2022 tax year. Scottish
Friendly should confirm that by showing how many days it took to pay Mr H in 
September 2022 after the date it calculated the final fund value, and applying that factor to 
the redress methodology Ive set out below.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr H fairly, Scottish Friendly must put him as close as possible into the 
position he would now be in if it had paid his pensions benefits within the 2021-2022 tax 
year.
So Scottish Friendly must:
As at the date of this final decision, work out the benefits that Mr H would have received 
based on a fund value calculation date which would then have ensured payment of the 
benefits by the last day of the 2021-2022 tax year. 
Using this figure, Scottish Friendly should pay any additional tax free cash beyond that which 
it has already paid Mr H, along with any additional non tax free cash element which may 
have been higher as at that date. It should then restore him to the tax position he would have 
been in had the payments been made within the previous tax year  using the information it 
already has relating to his tax circumstances. 
It should also pay, if it hasnt already, £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
raising Mr Hs expectations of when his benefits would be paid.
But Mr H has also suffered a financial loss as he should have received his benefits by the 
end of the 2021-2022 tax year when he would have put them into his savings account  
which is what he did when he eventually received them. 
So I think Scottish Friendly should uplift the entirety of the net funds (identified above) which 
Mr H ought to have received by 5 April 2022 using the rate - at the time - of the actual 
savings account into which he put the money.
This should be used as a benchmark up to the point of actual payment in September 2022, 
and then the same uplift on the difference in the amount he would have had in his 
possession from that point up to the date of settlement  and pay this to him as 
compensation. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from final decision to settlement (if not settled within 28 days of the business 
receiving the complainant's acceptance).
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited, who should pay Mr H the amount that arises from the calculation 
as set out above. Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should provide details of its 
calculation in a clear and simple manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman