DRN-2521753
The complaint
Ms A complains about the treatment she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
while trying to make a payment in branch. 
Mr F complains on Ms As behalf. 
What happened
In October 2019, Ms A visited a Barclays branch and asked to make a large transfer from 
her current account to her friend (Mr F). During this visit, the branch manager phoned the 
police, who arrived at the branch. 
The police questioned Mr F in the branch where others could see and hear, which he says 
was demeaning and humiliating. Ms A was questioned in a separate room and says she was 
put under a lot of pressure to answer the questions being asked. 
Ms A says they were both interrogated for over an hour, and that they were made to feel like 
criminals. She says they felt obliged to give all the information they could to convince the 
police they werent involved in anything fraudulent, which left them feeling extremely 
humiliated. 
Ms A has said the branch manager didnt ask for her permission to call the police, and that 
she and Mr F had to go and obtain a legal document from a solicitor before she could make 
the transfer. When Ms A tried to make the transfer the following day, the branch was 
experiencing technical difficulties meaning she had to visit another branch, where she was 
able to carry out the transaction without the need for the legal document. 
Barclays explained that they took the actions they felt were necessary to protect Ms A and 
her money. They said they are entitled to call the police when they feel concerned that a 
customer may be acting under duress. But they didnt mean to cause her any distress. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays had acted fairly. She explained they had 
followed the correct procedures and that they had asked for Ms As permission to call the 
police, and she agreed. While she could understand how the situation had made Ms A feel, 
our investigator was satisfied Barclays had called the police to protect her and her money
. 
Ms A responded and disagreed. She said she was not asked permission from the branch 
manager to call the police, and that shed like the complaint reviewed again. 
Because of this the complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information I have, I agree with the investigator that Barclays were reasonable 
in their decision to call the police. I will explain why. 
As I wasnt in the branch at the time of the event, I cannot say for sure what happened 
exactly. Because of this, I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened, by weighing up the information I have. 
Ms A says the branch manager didnt ask her permission before calling the police, whereas 
the branch managers statement explains that she took Ms A into a room, and after having a 
discussion, was granted permission. This makes it very difficult for me to know what was or 
was not said. Because of this, I have looked at it from both perspectives.
  
If the branch manager did gain Ms As permission, then I would say they acted on that 
permission and calling the police was the correct thing to do.
 
If the branch manager didnt ask for Ms As permission, the banks policy does still say that if 
there is concern, the police can be called even without asking for it. And I dont know why 
the branch manager would have called the police, if she didnt feel it was the right thing to do 
at the time.
 
So I think its more likely than not that Ms A gave her permission. But even if she didnt, the 
banks policy states they can call the police if they feel its necessary.
  
Barclays have explained that the decision to call the police was made to protect Ms A and 
her money. Overall, I can understand how this must have made Ms A and Mr F feel. I agree 
it wouldnt be a nice experience to go through and I can understand why they felt humiliated 
and embarrassed. But at the same time, I cant say that Barclays have done anything wrong 
in following their procedure to call the police, if they felt the need to protect Ms A. 
Ms A has also explained that her and Mr F were able to make the transfer the following day 
in another branch, without the need for the legal document which had been paid for. 
However from the branch managers statement it was the police who explained it would be a 
good idea to obtain the document  and again, even if it was the branch manager who 
suggested it, I wouldnt say it was an unreasonable thing to do. 
Because of this, I dont feel Barclays acted incorrectly, and so I wont be asking them to do 
anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman