DRN-4231361
The complaint
Mr C complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) unfairly 
declined to deal with a non-fault claim due to a breach of a mileage endorsement, under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C says he was involved in a car accident where a third-party driver was at fault. He says 
Markerstudy declined to handle his claim as hed exceeded the policy endorsement limit for 
2,000 miles. Mr C says he allows other people to drive his car under their own insurance 
policies. He says he hasnt exceeded the mileage limit. He says Markerstudys policy terms 
arent clear that the mileage limit relates to the vehicle as opposed to him as an individual.
Markerstudy says the mileage endorsement is clear. This means the policy is inoperative if 
the insured vehicle is driven in excess of the mileage limit, in the current period of insurance. 
It comments on Mr Cs view that hes allowed to drive other cars under his policy, and so this 
is also true for those driving his car. Markerstudy says driving other car cover is normally 
used for emergencies only. The business also highlights the declaration Mr C signed. It says 
this is clear that its the vehicle that mustnt cover more than 2,000 miles. 
Mr C didnt think Markerstudy had treated him fairly and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the declaration Mr C signed and the 
policy endorsement were clear that his vehicle was limited to 2,000 miles in the policy year. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that when Mr C took out his policy, he signed a declaration relating to the number 
of miles his vehicle could cover during the policy year. The declaration states:
MILEAGE DECLARATION  LIMITED MILEAGE POLICY
The policy cover required incorporates an understanding of limited mileage. Whether at 
inception, renewal or a new vehicle substitution/addition please complete the declaration 
below and return this to [broker] immediately by email or post.
And:
MILEAGE DECLARATION
I confirm that the present milometer reading of my vehicle registration mark [registration] is: 
[mileage] and it is warranted that the mileage of this vehicle will not exceed the limited 
mileage displayed and endorsed on your current schedule in any one period of insurance.
The declaration was signed and dated by Mr C. There is no dispute over this point. 
The mileage endorsement set out in Mr Cs policy schedule says:
003 - Limited Mileage 2000
The annual mileage in the current period of insurance is restricted to the amount of miles 
shown next to this endorsement on your schedule. Your policy cover is inoperative (except 
as required under the Road Traffic Act) and of no effect if the insured vehicle is driven in 
excess of the annual mileage displayed on your schedule in the current period of insurance. 
You should contact Lancaster Insurance Services Ltd if you think you will travel more miles 
than you originally agreed.
In August 2022, when Mr Cs car was received at Markerstudys salvage yard  the recorded 
mileage was 4,225 miles greater than that recorded in November 2021 when the policy was 
incepted. This is 2,225 miles over the limit specified in the endorsement. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs comments that his policy allows him to drive other vehicles. He says 
the terms dont say he needs to check the owners insurance policy to see if there are 
restrictions in place. He says this is because he would be insured under his policy not the 
owners policy. Mr C says the same would apply vice-versa if someone was to drive his car.   
I understand Mr Cs argument. But the declaration he signed, and the policy endorsement 
clearly state its the vehicle that mustnt exceed 2,000 miles within the policy year. If the 
mileage covered by the vehicle in this period is to exceed the stated mileage, the terms are 
clear that Mr C should contact his broker to update his policy. So, although Im sorry Mr Cs 
car was damaged in an accident, I dont think Markerstudy has treated him unfairly when 
declining to deal with his claim. 
Ive thought about Mr Cs concerns that his premium payments continued to be collected 
after Markerstudy declined to deal with his claim. In its submissions to our service the 
business says this is because the policy was still in force. It declined to cover Mr Cs losses 
as a result of the exceeded mileage endorsement. But it says the policy still provided cover 
for third party liabilities. Markerstudy says Mr C could also have contacted his broker to 
increase his mileage allowance. His policy would then cover him for any damages/loss to his 
vehicle. It says it wouldnt cancel a policy as a result of a claim being correctly declined. 
Having considered this point, I dont think Markerstudy treated Mr C unfairly. His policy was 
still in force requiring his monthly payments to continue. 
In summary I dont think Markerstudy behaved unreasonably when rely on its policy terms 
and declining to deal with Mr Cs claim for the reasons it gave. I dont think it did anything 
wrong with respect to the continuing monthly premiums. So, I cant fairly ask it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman