DRN-3149101
The complaint
Mr K complained that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) moved his pension 
out of an investment fund he had chosen and into an alternative fund without giving him prior 
notice or a chance to approve the new fund before the move took place.
Mr K felt that he had been caused distress and inconvenience by this. He felt compelled to 
spend time researching the new fund his pension had been transferred into and other 
alternative funds that he may have felt were more appropriate. He would like compensation 
to reflect this.
What happened
On the 15 October 2020, Standard Life wrote to Mr K to inform him that his pension fund had 
been transferred from his chosen investment, the SL SLI Indian Equity Midcap Opportunities 
Pension Fund to the SL ASI (SLI) Emerging Markets Equity Pension Fund. This was the first 
time Mr K had been advised that any such change would take place.
Mr K phoned Standard Life on 26 October to ask why this fund switch had happened, why 
he was given no notice of it and why his authorisation to make the switch had not been 
sought in advance. As a result of this conversation he made a complaint to Standard Life.
On 2 November 2020 Mr K received a letter from Standard Life confirming the closure of the 
SL SLI Indian Equity Midcap Opportunities Pension Fund, apologising that Mr K was not 
notified before the closure and explaining why Standard Life felt that it was not possible to 
notify investors in the fund in advance of the fund closure.
On 2 November Mr K switched the funds from the SL ASI (SLI) Emerging Markets Equity
Pension fund to the SL JP Morgan Emerging Markets Pension Fund via the Standard Life 
website.
On 13 November 2020 Standard Life issued a final response to Mr Ks complaint, once 
again apologising for the lack of notice for the original fund switch, but rejecting the 
complaint as it felt it had acted appropriately and within the Terms and Conditions of Mr Ks 
pension policy. Standard Life also felt that due to circumstances beyond its control it was 
unable to give the normal three months notice period, and instead had to proceed on a best 
endeavours basis.
Mr K was unhappy with this outcome, and the case was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
After reviewing all the relevant information, our Investigator recommended that this 
complaint should not be upheld. Mr K disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to take 
a fresh look at the evidence and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered all the information provided by Mr K and Standard Life and have 
outlined below what I consider to be the most pertinent and relevant of this information. 
Having done so, and considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
I can understand that this will be disappointing for Mr K, but Ill explain how I reached this 
decision.
On 4 September 2020, the fund management company gave notice to Standard Life that it 
intended to close the fund Mr K was invested in within approximately six weeks, ceasing to 
accept new investments within three weeks of that date.
Standard Life explained that when it is informed by a fund manager of an impending fund 
closure, it follows a clearly defined process designed to safeguard the best interests of all its 
customers affected by the closure. This process involves activity to identify, recommend and 
approve the closest matched fund from all those Standard Life can offer. Communications to 
affected customers are then designed and sent to inform them of the situation and outline 
their options. This advance notice was not provided in this case, as Standard Life was only 
informed of the decision to close the fund six weeks before it was closed. In deciding 
whether this was a reasonable approach to take, I have looked at Standard Lifes Terms and 
Conditions, which includes a passage that states:
5.14 (page 7/24)  If a fund that youre invested in is being closed or wound up, youll
normally get 3 months notice. You may receive less notice (or in exceptional circumstances,
no notice) if the external fund manager closes or withdraws their funds, or a shorter period 
(or no notice) is necessary to protect the interests of the unitholders with units in that fund.
The lack of notice given to Standard Life by the fund manager meant that it was not possible 
to give the full three months notice and Standard Life had to act within a tight timeframe. Im 
satisfied Standard Life acted in line with their terms and conditions which informed 
customers that in exceptional circumstances no notice might be given.
Looking now at the alternative fund Standard Life chose to transfer Mr Ks pension funds 
into, I consider that Standard Life followed a reasonable process, matching as closely as 
possible the risk profile, past performance, charging level and geographic bias of the funds, 
so I dont think it did anything wrong here. I also believe that it is fair and reasonable for 
Standard Life to have transferred the fund, rather than to sell Mr Ks original holding and 
place cash into his pension.
I can appreciate that Mr K felt obliged to do his research and carry out the fund switch in a 
short period of time, but for the reasons I have outlined above, I find that Standard Life has 
not done anything wrong. I believe that Standard Life acted in a way allowed by its terms 
and conditions, and I am satisfied that its explanation for why it was unable to notify 
customers in advance is reasonable. I do not think it would be reasonable to ask them to 
financially compensate Mr K in the way he has asked.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint, and Im not going to ask 
Standard Life Assurance Limited to do anything.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman