DRN-3594811
The complaint
Mr A complains because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. hasnt paid a claim under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Mapfre. The policy was taken out in
September 2019, with a start date of 6 January 2020. According to the policy schedule, Mr A
added travel disruption cover to his policy on 8 March 2020, effective from 15 March 2020.
Mr A was due to travel to a country, which Ill call A, on 14 August 2020. However, the flight
was cancelled on the day of travel when Mr A was at the airport. The airline said this was
due to capacity restrictions mandated by the government of A. Mr A received a credit from
the airline for his original flight, to be used at a later date.
As work was being done at Mr As home, he was unable to return there for two days and
instead paid for alternative hotel accommodation. Mr A subsequently flew from his home to a
different airport to fly to A with a different airline. Mr A paid to stay overnight before his flight,
and also paid for an internal flight within A in order to reach his original intended destination.
Mr A made a claim under his policy with Mapfre for his additional costs. Mapfre gave Mr A a
number of reasons why his claim wasnt covered  including that he had no financial loss,
and that the circumstances which he found himself in werent covered under Section A:
Cancellation or Curtailment Charges of his policy.
Unhappy, Mr A complained to Mapfre before bringing the matter to the attention of our
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said Mr As claim
wasnt covered under Section A of his policy. Mr A didnt agree with our investigators
opinion, so his complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr As complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my provisional decision about Mr As complaint.
Section A of Mr As policy covers cancellation of a trip. A trip is defined as a holiday or
journey beginning and ending in the UK. Mr As trip wasnt cancelled. His outbound flight
was cancelled, which meant the dates of his trip were altered. So, his trip went ahead  with
a different outbound flight than originally planned. But Mr As trip to A wasnt cancelled in its
entirety, so Section A: Cancellation or Curtailment Charges doesnt apply to his claim.
However, Mr A held Travel Disruption cover under Sections R1-R5 of his policy. Section
R2/R3 outlines the cover available for Extended Delayed Departure/Extended Holiday
Abandonment and says:
2. We will pay you up to £1,000 for: 
b) suitable additional accommodation (room only) and travel expenses necessarily
incurred in reaching Your overseas destinationas a result of:
i) the Public Transport on which You were booked to travel being cancelled, delayed
for more than 12 hours, diverted or re-directed after take-off
The definition of Public Transport includes any publicly licensed aircraft on which the
policyholder is booked to travel.
Mr A was at the airport when his flight was cancelled, and he incurred additional
accommodation and travel expenses to reach A. It therefore seems clear to me that Mapfre
should have considered the circumstances of his claim under Section R2/R3.
I dont think Mapfre handled Mr As claim fairly, and I think it unreasonably rejected the
claim. I think it should have been clear to Mapfre from the outset that Section A didnt apply
to the circumstances of Mr As claim. Mapfre doesnt appear to have given any consideration
as to whether Mr As claim was covered under the relevant sections of his policy (Section
K1/K2: Delayed Departure/Holiday Abandonment or Section R2/R3) and instead gave Mr A
a number of incorrect reasons as to why his claim wasnt covered  for example, saying Mr
A had no financial loss.
Im satisfied that Mapfres handling of this claim caused Mr A inconvenience, frustration and
annoyance, so I currently think Mapfre should also pay Mr A compensation for the impact of
the situation on him.
So, I said I intended to recommend that Mapfre should assess Mr As claim under Section 
R2/R3 of this policy and pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of Mapfres handling of his claim. 
Mr A accepted my provisional decision but queried what the next steps would be if Mapfre 
assessed his claim under Section R2/R3 and later declined it. Mapfre also accepted my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any additional arguments or provided any new evidence, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. 
My direction is for Mapfre to assess Mr As claim under Section R2/R3 of his policy. If Mapfre 
subsequently declines Mr As claim for any reason then Mr A would need to complain 
directly to Mapfre in the first instance, before bringing a new complaint to our service. 
Putting things right
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A must put things 
right and do the following:
assess Mr As claim under Section R2/R3 of his policy;
pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result of Mapfres handling of his claim. Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman