DRN-3486283
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Aviva
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle first registered in
2013.
Mr J acquired the vehicle in September 2020, subject to a finance agreement.
In January 2021, Mr J went online and took out an Aviva policy for the vehicle for a year.
On about 19 March 2021, Mr J made a change so that he was no longer the registered
keeper of the vehicle and his company became the registered keeper.
In mid-May 2021, Mr J reported that someone had stolen the vehicle. He made a claim to
Aviva under the section of the policy dealing with theft.
In about July 2021, Mr J complained to Aviva about delay. By a final response dated early
August 2021, Aviva turned down that complaint.
By a letter dated late August 2021, Aviva said that Mr J had changed the registered keeper
without telling Aviva in line with the policy terms. It said this was a misrepresentation and it
wouldnt have continued cover if it had known of the change. So it was cancelling the policy
with effect from 19 March 2021. Aviva said that  as the misrepresentation had been
deliberate or reckless - it wouldnt refund the premium.
In September 2021, Mr J complained to Aviva about the cancellation.
Mr J brought his complaint to us in October 2021. Mr J complained that Aviva should pay the
claim.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He referred to
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He thought
that Mr J had made a qualifying misrepresentation, so Aviva didnt need to deal with the theft
claim. But the investigator thought that the misrepresentation was careless rather than
reckless or deliberate.
The investigator recommended that Aviva should:
1. change the classification to a careless misrepresentation and refund Mr J 
premiums from 19 March 2021 when the registered keeper was changed; and
2. let Mr J know how the theft claim has been recorded internally and externally so 
hes able to notify future insurers. If the claim is recorded as a fault claim, let Mr J 
know if hes able to pay the cost to change to non-fault.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J  
and to Aviva on 21 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
There was no evidence that Aviva asked Mr J to confirm the information hed given in 
the Information Provided By You document. So I wasnt persuaded that Mr J made 
any misrepresentation in breach of the duty under CIDRA.
Rather, I found that the policy asked Mr J to tell Aviva of the change to the 
information that he was the registered keeper set out in the Information Provided By 
You document. And I found that the change was a fundamental change in the risk 
because the policy didnt cover any use for business purposes, yet the new 
registered keeper was a business.
Subject to any further information from Mr J or from Aviva, my provisional decision was not 
to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Mr J hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Aviva said that it had no further evidence to add in response to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Avivas evidence that its underwriting criteria included a requirement that the
policyholder or the policyholders spouse or partner should be the registered keeper of the
insured vehicle.
From a screenshot, I accept that  when he went online in January 2021  Aviva set out
some assumptions including that Mr J or his spouse or partner should be the registered
keeper of the insured vehicle. Aviva asked Mr J to confirm that all the assumptions were
true.
Aviva produced a document headed Information Provided By You. That included the
following:
Registered keeper: Proposer
Main driver: Mr [J]
Use of vehicle: Social, domestic and pleasure (SDP)
From that, I find that Mr J had confirmed that Avivas assumptions (including the assumption
about the registered keeper) were true.In January 2021, Mr J was the registered keeper. So he didnt make any misrepresentation
about that at that time.
From the insurance certificate, I see that cover was for social domestic and pleasure
purposes, excluding commuting or business use.
From the policy schedule, I see that the total premium was about £1,800.00. Mr J mustve
paid a deposit. The schedule says he had to make a further eight instalment payments each
of about £150.00 totalling about £1,200.00.
From the policy booklet I see that Avivas policy terms included the following:
Information and changes we need to know about
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the
questions we ask when you take out, make changes to, and renew your policy.
You can make changes online at
https://www.direct.aviva.co.uk/MyAccount/login
Please tell us immediately if there are any changes to the information set out in the
Information Provided By You document, certificate of motor insurance or on your
schedule. You must also tell us immediately about the following changes:
 A change to the people insured, or to be insured.
 Motoring convictions
 Criminal convictions
 A change of vehicle.
 Any vehicle modifications.
 Any change affecting ownership of the vehicle.
 Any change in the way that vehicle is used.
If you are any doubt, please contact us here
https://help.online.aviva.co.uk/contact-form
When you inform us of a change, we will tell you if this affects your policy, for
example whether we are able to accept the change and if so, whether the change will
result in revised terms and/or premium being applied to your policy.
If the information provided by you is not complete and accurate:
 we may cancel your policy and refuse to pay any claim, or
 we may not pay any claim in full, or
 we may revise the premium and/or change the compulsory excess, or
 the extent of the cover may be affected.
So the policy term asked Mr J to tell Aviva of any changes to the information set out in the
Information Provided By You document. That would include the information that he was the
registered keeper.
The policy terms required Mr J to tell Aviva of any change affecting ownership of the vehicle.
But I find it likely that the vehicle was owned by a finance company rather than by Mr J.
I accept Avivas evidence that on 19 March 2021, Mr J told DVLA of the change of registered
keeper and on the same day he logged into his Aviva account and changed the direct debit
details. In my view, these changes together amounted to a variation of the insurance policy. I
say that because the policy didnt cover any use for business purposes, yet the new
registered keeper was a business.
So CIDRA imposed a duty on Mr J to take reasonable care to avoid making a
misrepresentation to Aviva. Mr J made changes on the DVLA and Aviva accounts 
without telling Aviva he was no longer the registered keeper.Aviva wouldnt have continued to insure the vehicle if it had known that Mr J (or his spouse
or partner) was no longer the registered keeper. So any misrepresentation wouldve been a
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. And CIDRA wouldve allowed Aviva to treat the
policy as void from the date of the variation.
As Mr J went onto the DVLA website and his Aviva account on the same day, any
misrepresentation to Aviva wouldve been worse than careless. It wouldve been reckless as
to the truth. So CIDRA wouldve allowed Aviva to make no refund of premium.
But theres no evidence that Aviva asked Mr J to confirm the information hed given in the
Information Provided By You document. So Im not persuaded that Mr J made any
misrepresentation in breach of the duty under CIDRA.
Rather, I find that the policy term - quoted above - asked Mr J to tell Aviva of the change to
the information that he was the registered keeper set out in the Information Provided By
You document. And I find that the change was a fundamental change in the risk because
the policy didnt cover any use for business purposes, yet the new registered keeper was a
business.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr Js claim or to change
the way it has recorded the claim or the cancellation.
Neither Mr J nor Aviva has provided enough information about what instalments Mr J
actually paid. And Mr J had made a claim about which Aviva had a number of concerns that
it had to spend time and money to investigate.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to make any refund in relation
to the period after 19 March 2021.
Overall, I dont consider that Aviva treated Mr J unfairly, so I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct Aviva to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman