DRN-2730290
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) dealt with his 
motor insurance claim.
Mr M may know Highway by a different name, but Im satisfied Highway is ultimately 
responsible.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M made a claim on his specialist motor insurance policy after his camper 
van was involved in a road traffic accident.
 
Following the accident, the camper van was taken for repair. But, some time later, because 
of long delays, poor service and Mr Ms unhappiness with the standard of repair work, the 
camper van was moved to a different repairer.
 
Mr M raised a complaint about Highways handling of the claim in August 2019. He was 
unhappy with its response, so he contacted our service in October 2019. While Mr Ms 
complaint was with our service further issues with the camper van came to light and, as a 
result, in January 2020 both parties agreed to settle the claim for market value.
Highways final offer to settle the claim was £32,000 but Mr M thought that was too low. Hed 
approached an independent engineer and obtained his own valuation report. The 
independent engineer said the only way to replace Mr Ms camper van  because of its 
bespoke nature  would be to have a like-for-like replacement built which would cost 
£38,000. So the independent engineer thought that amount was a fair pre-accident market 
value.
 
An investigator here considered Mr Ms complaint and said Highway couldve handled the 
claim better. He recommended some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Highway had caused Mr M and, given both parties had agreed to settle the claim rather than 
continue with repairs, he thought the dispute now centred around fair settlement for the 
camper van. He said he found the independent engineers report to be more persuasive than 
what Highway had relied upon. So he said Highway should settle Mr Ms claim for £38,000. 
He also thought Highway should pay for the cost of Mr Ms independent report. 
Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but Highway disagreed. It said as Mr Ms policy 
was a market value policy, the camper van wasnt insured for an agreed value and the policy 
wouldnt cover the cost to build a like-for-like replacement. Highway maintained its valuation 
of £32,000 was fair. It also said it would pay compensation as the investigator set out, but it 
didnt think it should have to pay for the cost of Mr Ms independent engineers report. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
In support of his complaint Mr M has made detailed points and provided a lot of 
information. Im sorry to hear how much this matter has affected him and Mrs M. And 
Id like to pass on my sincere thanks for their continued patience.
 
Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail, and I may not have commented on 
everything Mr M has raised. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects 
the informal nature of this service.
whats left in dispute
Given the length of time and the different events which have occurred throughout the 
course of this complaint, for clarity, Ive outlined here what I believe is still in dispute.
 
The investigator has already considered events prior to both partys agreement to 
settle the claim as a total loss. He thought Highway couldve handled Mr Ms claim 
better, and he set out a level of compensation which he feels is appropriate to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience Mr M has suffered. Ive not seen that Mr M disagrees 
with what the investigator explained here. Additionally, from what Ive seen, Highway 
doesnt disagree either and it accepts things couldve been handled better. So I dont 
intend to cover the same ground.
 
Instead, Ill explain whether I think Highway has reached a fair and reasonable 
valuation of Mr Ms camper van.
reaching a fair market value
Mr Ms policy is a market value policy. The policy document describes this as;
The cost at the date of the accident or loss of replacing the insured vehicle, if 
possible, with one of a similar make, model, age, condition and mileage
Highway has offered Mr M £32,000 to settle the claim because it thinks thats a fair 
market value. It relied on a report carried out by its engineer and adverts for similar 
vehicles. Mr M disagrees with this valuation and thinks a fair market value is £38,000.
Its important for me to clarify here that this service doesnt provide a precise 
valuation of a vehicle. Rather, we consider if the offer being made is reasonable. 
Vehicle valuation isnt an exact science, far from it, and there are several factors 
which come into play. A good starting point when trying to establish market value is 
to look at industry trade guides. The guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely selling prices. But the guides dont give accurate valuations for 
Mr Ms vehicle because it was never manufactured as a camper van to begin with. It 
was converted after manufacture.
Ive seen that  among other things  Mr M has obtained a report from an 
independent engineer to support his position that the camper van had a pre-accident 
market value of £38,000. On the other hand, Highway has provided its own 
engineers report and some adverts of other camper vans for sale which it considered 
when reaching a valuation.
  
I dont think Highways report is thorough enough for me to rely on. I say this because 
it contains little detail or specifics around Mr Ms camper van and the bespoke nature 
of it.
Alternatively, the independent engineers report is very detailed. It explains that, in 
the engineers opinion, the only way to replace Mr Ms camper van would be to have 
a like-for-like replacement built. But Mr Ms policy is a market value policy. It doesnt provide cover to build a like-for-like camper van, so Ive not considered this view any 
further. 
Ive also noted from the report that the conversion of the camper van was largely 
carried out by Mr M himself, so it was bespoke, with the fixtures and interior fittings 
just as he wanted them. Indeed, Mr M has provided a breakdown of his costs to show 
the total he spent on the camper van was £38,000. But it doesnt necessarily follow 
that, if the camper van was advertised for sale in pre-accident condition, a potential 
buyer would have paid what Mr M thought it was worth or what hed spent on 
converting it. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that either the independent engineers report  or 
Highways  represents a fair valuation.
Our service doesnt generally use advertisements to help assess market value but, 
sometimes, adverts can give a good indication of market value particularly if a vehicle 
is very bespoke, rare or a classic. And I think this applies to Mr Ms camper van. Ive 
noted Highway did review adverts for similar camper vans, as did Mr Ms 
independent engineer, but Ive also carried out my own market research.
 
The independent engineer found an advert for a camper van which used the same 
specification base-vehicle as Mr Ms. It was for sale at £34,995 but the history of the 
vehicle  such as its mileage or precise age  is unknown, so I dont find that 
information reliable enough to determine fair market value.
 
I found similar camper vans of the same model as Mr Ms but, as expected, no like-
for-like is available. As is often the case with adverts there was a broad range of 
prices, but none of the adverts I reviewed support a pre-accident market value of 
£38,000 for Mr Ms camper van. Rather, £32,000 is broadly in-line with  and 
seemingly towards the higher end of  the prices I found advertised online for a 
similar vehicle. 
I can understand why Mr M feels the value of his camper van should be higher than 
£32,000. Especially given he spent a considerable amount of time and money on a 
high-quality conversion. But, ultimately, the market value of a vehicle isn't found by 
totting up the cost of individual parts which  its important to note  wouldve 
depreciated over time. Its arrived at by looking at what the whole camper van would 
sell for. And, on balance, Im not persuaded theres enough to conclude £38,000 is a 
fair market value for Mr Ms camper van.
To sum up, its very difficult to unequivocally conclude the pre-accident value of Mr 
Ms camper van. Mr M, quite understandably, thinks its worth more than Highways 
current offer. Afterall, he put a lot of time and effort into converting the camper van 
just as he wanted it. So I understand Mr M will be disappointed by what Ive set out. 
But I think the best way for me to settle a fair outcome  moving away from adverts  
is to refer to Mr Ms policy, and what it entitled him to. Thats the cost of putting him 
back in the position hed have been in before the accident. Specifically, the cost of 
replacing his base vehicle and the cost of converting it to a camper van.
Ive checked the industry guides to determine the value of Mr Ms base vehicle using 
its registration and mileage. Ive averaged the guide prices to reach a market value, 
from the time of the accident, of £16,000 for the base vehicle. Mr Ms policy doesnt provide new-for-old replacements but, for simplicity; using the list of costs Mr M has 
provided for the items he bought, and the amount hes cited for the conversion, Id 
award him a further £9,600. Thats a total of £25,600  which is £6,400 less than 
what Highways already paid.
 
So, in the overall circumstances, I find that Highways £32,000 offer is reasonable. 
And I dont intend to require Highway to increase it.
putting things right
Highway has already paid Mr M £32,000 for his camper van  so I dont intend to 
require it do anything further with regard to settling the claim.
 
The investigator recommended Highway pay Mr M £1,500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused. Neither party has disagreed with that amount 
and I think £1,500 is both fair and reasonable. Highway has already paid Mr M 
£1,000, so I intend to require it to pay a further £500 to Mr M (unless it already has, 
and I havent been informed).
The investigator also thought Highway should pay for the cost of Mr Ms independent 
engineer. But I dont see things quite the same. Mr M was under no obligation to 
obtain an independent report.  Instead, that was a choice he made to support his 
position on fair market value. So I dont think its reasonable to require Highway to 
pay for it. 
In closing, its clear this experience has been very difficult for Mr M and he has my 
sympathy. The camper van  and his plans for it  undoubtedly meant a great deal to 
him. But Im satisfied that, on balance, Highways valuation is reasonable. And its not 
fair of me to require Highway to increase its offer if Im not persuaded theres 
conclusive evidence to support a higher valuation.
Highway said it accepted my findings, but it wanted to add that it had covered Mr Ms 
renewal premium in February 2020. The policy was cancelled in March 2020 and Highway 
said it had agreed for any pro-rata refund to be paid to Mr M. So it thought this should be 
factored in to any compensation award.
Mr M provided a very detailed and honest response. Ive summarised his key points in less 
detail, but I want him to know I did read everything he set out. Mr M said:
 
he feels strongly that his complaint is about another business, LV, not Highway. 
Mr M is keen to ensure LV are the business held responsible;
he maintains his disagreement over the settlement of his claim. He doesnt believe 
the valuation of his camper van is fair, nor does he feel the equipment and extras 
which were fitted have been taken into account; and
hes very unhappy with the general handling of his claim, including the compensation 
amount on offer, and has described in detail how the experience has had such a 
profound impact upon him and Mrs M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once again, I wish to thank Mr M and his representative  Mrs M  for providing as much 
detail as they have. 
Id also like Mr and Mrs M to know I had no intention, nor do I have any here, to come across 
as dismissive of the issues theyve raised. Its clear this matter is a very emotive one for 
them, and I can certainly understand why. Mr and Mrs M werent at fault for the accident and 
I know theyve done nothing wrong. So theres no doubt the whole experience has been 
arduous for them. 
Having said that, while I appreciate its been a difficult time, I must look at things objectively. 
And, while I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed, Im not going to depart from what I set 
out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.  
the business responsible
Mr M doesnt think his complaint should be against Highway, and I can see why. Afterall, 
hes only ever corresponded with LV.   
The reason Ive asked for this complaint to be set up against Highway is because its 
Mr Ms insurer. Highway is the business who underwrites his policy and is responsible for 
settling any claims. 
Highway is part of a larger group of companies, LV Group. When this is the case, firms like 
Highway sometimes continue to operate and underwrite policies in their own right. But any 
administration  such as claims processing, marketing material or even general policy 
documentation  is dealt with centrally by the parent company in the group. And thats whats 
happened here. 
Mr Ms complaint is about how his insurer wishes to settle his claim. So although the 
administration  and Mr Ms subsequent complaint  has been dealt with by LV, its Highway 
who are responsible for settling the claim itself. And its for this reason Im satisfied Highway 
is the correct respondent for this complaint.  
the valuation of Mr Ms camper van
Having reconsidered the available evidence, I still think Highways £32,000 offer is a 
reasonable one. I say that for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision, more 
specifically; I dont think either report  from Highway or the independent engineer  is 
robust enough to represent fair market value. Ive also seen £32,000 is broadly in line with 
the value of similar vehicles, and I dont think market value is determined by what the owner 
thinks their vehicles worth. Nor do I think market value is a calculation of individual parts or 
simply what the owner has spent on the vehicle. 
Mr M has said he recognises his policy mentions market value. But hes also said his policy 
document states a specific value of £39,000. The insurance schedule provided by Mr Ms 
broker, with whom he arranged the policy, does show £39,000 as a given value. But here, 
thats simply an amount the policyholder believes the vehicle to be worth. Its a general 
question asked by insurers to gather information about the proposed vehicle, not an agreed 
amount of cover. 
I understand Mr M would like further losses paid, such as snow chains; tyres, two sets of 
wheels, a fitted tracker, a TV and satellite system. Highway has said it didnt consider any 
item not attached to the vehicle when reaching its valuation. But it has now offered to refund 
items, like the wheels and tyres, that Mr M can hand over. Its said it will pay the original value (on provision of receipts) or the sale value if there are no receipts. And I think thats 
fair. Especially in light of what Mr M has said about selling or giving away some items over 
the duration of the claim. So if Mr M would like Highway to collect these items, then it should 
do so. And Highway should pay the receipt or sale value to Mr M as agreed. 
As it stands, Mr M hasnt accepted £32,000 in full and final settlement  and Im aware he 
was waiting for our determination before deciding his next steps. Like I said in my provisional 
decision, I can certainly appreciate why he thinks the camper van was worth more. Hes said 
it was priceless to him, and I can understand why given his plans to spend time touring the 
country in it. The camper van clearly meant a great deal to him. 
With that said, I want to be clear that Im not concluding Highways valuation of £32,000 is 
unquestionably what Mr Ms camper van was worth in its pre-accident condition. Its not the 
role of this service to act as vehicle valuation experts. Instead, for the reasons Ive set out 
here and in my provisional decision, I think its a reasonable offer in the circumstances. So, 
on that basis, I dont require Highway to do anything more regarding the valuation of Mr Ms 
camper van.
the independent engineers report
In my provisional decision I said Mr M wasnt under any obligation to provide an independent 
report. But Mr M has said Highway only increased its offer to £32,000 after hed provided it. 
That is correct, but I still dont think that means he was obligated to provide a report. 
Highway didnt ask for one, and Mr M had already been given referral rights to our service. 
He had, in fact, already made us aware of his complaint. So I think he couldve waited for our 
review, rather than incur the cost of an independent report. 
Moreover, Highway disagreed with the findings in the report. It didnt revise its valuation in 
line with the independent engineers opinion, and said it was making a higher offer purely to 
reach a resolution. So, on balance, I cant say the report is the sole reason Highway 
increased its offer to £32,000. And I dont think its fair to ask Highway to cover the cost.
the general handling of Mr Ms claim and compensation
Mr M doesnt agree £1,500 recognises the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused. Hes set out in detail how poorly he feels the claim  and repairs by Highways agent 
 were handled. And I certainly agree Highway couldve done better. The manner in which it 
and its repairers handled the claim was poor to say the least. I understand Highway paid an 
invoice to its repairer before work had begun, yet Mr M still experienced delays; slow repairs 
and poor service. Thats why Im satisfied Mr M should be paid compensation. 
Its important to keep in mind, though, that our service isnt a regulator. Our role isnt to 
punish a business for its mistakes, and our awards arent meant to act like a fine. 
 
Like Mr and Mrs M, Highway wasnt responsible for the accident and theres always going to 
be some distress and inconvenience going through the claims process. And, unfortunately, 
on some occasions its true to say that claims administration is handled poorly. That certainly 
applies here, but I think Highway accepts it handled Mr Ms claim poorly. And I dont think it 
intentionally made mistakes. I think £1,500 is a substantial amount of compensation which, 
had it not been on offer already, is in line with what Id have awarded in the circumstances. 
So, on that basis, I dont require Highway to increase it. 
Mr Ms refund of premium
Highway covered Mr Ms renewal premium in February 2020 while the matter was ongoing. 
The policy was subsequently cancelled around a month later, and a pro-rata refund was paid to Mr M. Usually when a refund is issued, any return of premium will go to the individual who 
paid which  in this instance  is Highway.
Given the circumstances, and just how poorly Mr Ms claim had been handled up to the point 
of renewal, I think covering the cost to ensure the policy continued while the claim was 
ongoing was the right thing for Highway to do regardless. But Highway has now asked that 
the refund paid to Mr M be taken into consideration when awarding compensation here.
In the round, it does seem fair to take any pro-rata refund Mr M received into consideration. 
Afterall, anything he did receive wouldve been to his advantage given he didnt pay for the 
policys renewal. In any event, Mr M doesnt object to this amount being taken into account 
when making an award now. So Im satisfied Highway can deduct the amount Mr M received 
as a pro-rata refund in 2020 from the £1,500 compensation it is to pay Mr M. 
overall
I know this isnt the answer that Mr and Mrs M were hoping for. None of whats happened is 
down to their wrongdoing, and Im very sorry to hear how much the matter has hampered 
their retirement plans. But, while I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs M, a 
contract of insurance only goes so far. So, for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied Highway 
has made a reasonable offer for the camper vans market value, and I think £1,500 
compensation is enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Im aware that any cheques previously 
sent to Mr M havent yet been cashed. These may have now expired, so I require 
Highway Insurance Company Limited to ensure Mr M has active cheques which:
settle the claim for his camper van for £32,000; and
pay him a total of £1,500 compensation, less the amount he received as a pro-rata 
refund in 2020;
Highway should also arrange with Mr M to collect any equipment he can hand over 
and pay either the receipt or sale value, as its offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman