DRN-3512663
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund a transaction he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr G moved £35 into his current account. A few seconds later, £32.97 was 
spent on a hotel booking in his name, registered to his personal email.
Mr G later reported this payment as unauthorised, and cancelled his card. Santander gave 
Mr G a temporary refund and raised a chargeback. They sent Mr G a disclaimer form twice 
but he did not return it, and the merchant sent evidence that the payment was legitimate. 
Santander reversed the refund. 
Mr G complained. He says he didnt make the booking, he never received the form, and hed 
cancelled his card the week before.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Santander can hold Mr G liable for the payment in dispute if he authorised 
it. Otherwise, they would have to refund it.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that the payment used Mr Gs genuine 
card details, including the security code. So Im satisfied that it was properly authenticated. 
I also need to think about whether its most likely Mr G consented to the transaction as well. 
Taking all the evidence into account, I think it is most likely he consented to this payment. Ill 
explain why.
The disputed payment was made to a genuine merchant, to book a hotel room for Mr G. 
Mr Gs personal email address was used  the same one he has used to communicate with 
our service. It is not plausible that a fraudster would use Mr Gs email for this booking, as 
that would immediately notify Mr G of the fraud, with no benefit to them. Whereas it does fit 
very well with the possibility that this was a genuine booking of Mr Gs.
Seconds before this payment, Mr G used his mobile app to transfer £35 into this account. He 
did this from the normal IP address he uses for his genuine online activity. This transfer 
funded the disputed payment. It does not appear to have been made for any other purpose. 
Given the amount and timing, it seems that Mr G transferred money into his account to make 
sure there was enough for the disputed payment to go through. This also strongly suggests 
that the payment was genuine.
The amount of the disputed transaction was relatively small, and there were no other 
attempts to use Mr Gs card. That seems normal if this was a payment of Mr Gs. Whereas 
I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as possible, 
or to try other payments  as they would not have known the card had been cancelled.
Indeed, I have not seen any evidence which substantiates that this payment was fraudulent 
in any way, nor anything which makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr G could have 
authorised it. The evidence all seems to indicate that this was a genuine payment of Mr Gs. 
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its most likely that Mr G authorised the disputed 
payment. Therefore it was fair for Santander to hold him liable for it.
I understand that Mr G recalls cancelling this card the week before the disputed payment, 
but that was not the case. He did not cancel this card until after the disputed payment.
I also understand that Mr G is unhappy as he says he didnt receive the disclaimer form for 
the chargeback. It looks like Santander sent him the form twice, and otherwise followed the 
chargeback process as Id expect. In any case, regardless of the form, the chargeback 
would not plausibly have gone through, as the merchant defended it and the evidence 
strongly supports that this payment was not unauthorised.
Lastly, Mr G complained about going into an overdraft when the payment got re-debited. But 
since it looks like this payment was authorised, it was fair for Santander to reverse the 
refund. And if there wasnt enough money in the account to cover that reversal, then its 
normal for it to go into an overdraft. Even if theres not an agreed overdraft in place, the 
account can go into an unarranged overdraft. That is allowed, and is set out in the terms 
and conditions for Mr Gs account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman