DRN-3035370
The complaint
Mrs R complained that her claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy with 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mrs R made a claim to Lloyds under her policy after she noticed water was coming through a 
small crack in a glass panel in her conservatory roof. Mrs Rs own contractor reported the 
damage had been caused by a storm.
Lloyds appointed a contractor to assess the damage. Lloyds contractor thought the damage 
was caused by wear and tear. So, Lloyds declined the claim as it said the policy didnt cover 
Mrs R for damage that was caused by wear and tear.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She found the report provided by 
Lloyds contractor to be more persuasive as it was supported by photographic evidence and 
she thought the reasoning provided was logical. She thought Lloyds was fair in declining the 
claim, as she thought it had applied the exclusion clause for wear and tear reasonably. Mrs 
R disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs Rs contractor considered the damage to be storm related, so I have reviewed the 
complaint on this basis. When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three 
questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Lloyds have provided some weather reports and I have used our services own resources to 
review the weather conditions around the date of the claim. I can see the winds reached 
gusts of 47mph a few days before the date of the claim, which is consistent with what our 
service would consider to be storm force winds. So, this question can be answered as yes.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Mrs Rs contractor said Upon inspection of [the] lean-to conservatory roof, one large panel 
of bronze glass has been broken. In my professional opinion, with over 40 years-experience, 
I believe this damage has been caused by either storm and high winds, or, could have been 
broken by a tile or debris from house roof, again falling on it due to storms or gales.
I think its fair to conclude that storm force winds would be enough to blow tiles off a roof 
which then subsequently couldve caused damage to the roof of the conservatory. So, this 
question can be answered as yes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of damage which led to the claim. 
Lloyds appointed contactor assessed the damage and produced a report explaining what he 
thought had caused the damage. I think Lloyds has taken a reasonable approach in getting 
an expert view before making its decision whether the damage was covered by the policy.
Lloyds rejected the claim, as its contractor thought the damage was caused by wear and 
tear, which is excluded from the policy. It didnt think the damage was as a result of a storm.
I have also reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy to see what is covered. 
I can see that the policy does cover damage caused by a storm. However, it does highlight 
in the general exclusions that This policy does not insureloss or damage arising from 
wear and tear.
Therefore, if Lloyds have demonstrated the damage was likely to have been caused by wear 
and tear, I am likely to say its been fair in declining the claim as this is not covered by the 
policy.
I have reviewed the report from Lloyds contractor to see if its conclusions are fair. The 
report states:
[The contractor has] attended the policy holders property regarding the reported 
damage and can confirm the damage to be consistent with wear and tear.
A single glazed unit in the conservatory roof has a crack running the entire length but 
there is no evidence of an impact. This is an old aluminium conservatory roof with 
another panel having been replaced in the past by another contractor with flashband 
and silicone used along the glazing bars suggesting a history of leaks. The unit has 
potentially cracked due to movement of the roof due to its age putting additional 
pressure on itPre incident condition was poor..
Mrs Rs own contractor provided a conflicting report, so I have reviewed the photographic 
evidence that accompanies the report provided by Lloyds contractor. The commentary 
provided by Lloyds contractor is consistent with what I can see in the photos, so Im 
persuaded that the portion of the roof in question was in poor condition and the damage was 
not caused by an impact during the storm, such as a falling tile. I think on the balance of 
probabilities, what Lloyds contractor has said is more logical and is most likely to be the 
cause of the damage. Therefore, I think Lloyds has been reasonable in declining the claim 
as the damage wasnt covered by the policy, as wear and tear was a general exclusion.
I know Mrs Rs own contractor provided a contradictory report. However, I dont think his 
reasoning is specific enough to say how the storm caused the damage. Then, having 
reviewed the photographs of the roof, I cant see any evidence of an impact to the roof which 
may have resulted from a storm and caused the cracking to the roof.I understand Mrs Rs viewpoint that she thinks she should be covered as her policy covers 
storm damage. However, it excludes damage that is primarily caused by wear and tear, such 
as in this case. I dont think its fair to expect Lloyds or other insurers to pay for damage 
where a roof hasnt been well maintained and where that has been the primary cause of the 
damage. So, unfortunately, Im unable to uphold this complaint as I havent been able to 
answer yes to all three of the questions I set out at the start. I also cant see any other 
aspects of the policy that may cover this damage. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman