DRN-3177729
The complaint
Mr F complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr F was given loans by TFS as follows: 
Loan Date of loan Loan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
1 January 2018 £5,000 60 £174.50 £10,470
2 November2018 £10,000 60 £349 £20,940
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Fs complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve 
provided the loans to Mr F and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take to put things 
right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that:
For loan 1
Mr F did have a negative credit history in terms of missed payments and defaults, but 
this was quite some time before this application and all defaulted accounts were 
satisfied
all active credit was being maintained except for bank accounts which TFS discussed 
with Mr F
Mr F lived with parents and had minimal outgoings
all payments that Mr F was going to consolidate were still applied to the income and 
expenditure form, which would increase the amount of disposable income he would 
have once these creditors were paid.
For loan 2
Mr F had a couple of months in which he had missed payments but he told TFS that 
was due to moving address
TFS could see payments had been brought up to date and maintained for the past 
few months
defaulted accounts, although satisfied, were discussed to establish an understanding 
of Mr Fs credit history
his income had increased from loan 1 
the checks TFS carried out were proportionate and TFS made a fair lending decision.
TFS asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When he applied for loan 1,TFS asked Mr F about his income (which it took steps to check) 
and enquired about how much he spent on rent and/or mortgage as well as carrying out 
credit checks. It sent this information to us so Ive been able to see information that TFS 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr F. The income and expenditure assessment done by TFS suggested that the loan potentially 
looked affordable for Mr F. When looking at what he could afford, it worked out that Mr F 
would be left with around £62 after paying his TFS loan (even if he didnt use the loan for 
debt consolidation). So TFS felt this loan was affordable for Mr F.
But like our investigator, I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Fs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think TFS made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Mr F based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because, despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr F still had 
spare cash left over each month after covering the loan monthly repayment on top of his 
other monthly outgoings and committed expenditure, I think TFS shouldve realised that it 
couldnt rely on this information. 
Our investigator felt that TFS wasnt able to safely say that Mr F was in a position where it 
looked likely hed be able to sustainably afford the repayments on this loan for the next five 
years  and I agree. Mr F told TFS that a county court judgement and defaults on his record 
were due to his poor money management and lack of understanding about the long term 
consequences of mismanaging credit  and TFS was satisfied these were historic problems. 
But I dont think that anything Mr F said was enough to explain his continuing use of 
expensive credit. The credit checks TFS did showed that Mr Fs active credit balances at the 
time totalled around £16,659 - which our investigator pointed out represented close to 66% 
of his gross annual income which TFS had recorded as £1,700. Mr Fs active accounts 
included high-cost-credit and short-term (payday) loans, credit cards and an overdrawn 
current account with a balance of £217 that was currently three payments in arrears. This 
didnt suggest that Mr F was on top of his previous money problems.
And I think TFS should have been concerned to see that Mr F had two existing guarantor 
loans for amounts totalling £14,321  one taken around seven months or so prior to this 
application and the other just a month earlier when hed borrowed £4,500. 
I think TFS should have realised that what it saw on its credit checks painted a very different 
picture of his financial situation to the one Mr F had described. And like our investigator, 
I think this credit history strongly suggested Mr F was still having serious money problems.
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent to TFS that Mr F probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that its calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash. The signs were 
that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and the fact that he was applying to 
borrow this loan to repay other debt further suggested his existing credit commitments were 
unmanageable  as the credit checks TFS did appeared to show. I think TFS should have 
recognised the significant risk that taking out this loan would be detrimental to Mr Fs 
financial situation overall. 
In saying this, I've taken into account that the stated purpose of the loan was to consolidate 
some of Mr Fs debt and reduce his monthly repayments  but this doesnt affect my view 
overall that TFS didnt make a fair lending decision.
I dont think using this loan to repay the existing debt he mentioned to TFS was enough to 
give TFS sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved Mr Fs circumstances sufficiently 
to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his 
outstanding indebtedness overall. Even with the proposed debt consolidation that Mr F had 
discussed with TFS, he would still have needed to pay around 43% of his take home pay just to service his debt. I think that it was unrealistic to expect Mr F to be able to maintain the 
loan repayments at that level for the whole of the five-year loan term. 
Based on all the information TFS had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably able to say 
that loan 1 was likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr F  so it shouldnt have provided it. 
The fact that Mr F managed the repayments on loan 1 until he took out loan 2 (which was 
used to clear the outstanding balance on loan 1 and provide extra cash) doesnt mean that 
he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable for him.
And I think thats borne out by the credit checks TFS obtained when Mr F applied for loan 2 
 which revealed that his money problems had got worse. By now, Mr Fs circumstances had 
changed  hed moved, started a new job and his pay had increased. TFS recorded his net 
monthly income was now around £2,800. But despite this, TFS also saw that Mr Fs debt 
had increased significantly between loans 1 and 2, as he had continued to borrow from 
various lenders. He now owed creditors a figure approaching £30,000. This included payday 
and high-cost loans, including a loan for £10,000 taken less than two months before he 
applied for loan 2  which Mr F had said was for the purpose of debt consolidation but didnt 
appear to have used that way. 
And TFS could see that Mr F hadnt in fact used the proceeds of loan 1 to settle any of the 
credit card or loan accounts he had told TFS he would. It looked like Mr F had ongoing 
payment issues on a bank account and his credit cards. So I dont think TFS could have had 
any reasonable expectation that loan 2 was likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr F  
especially given that it knew it would add to his overall debt in circumstances where he was 
evidently struggling to make repayments due on his existing credit commitments. 
In these circumstances, I cannot reasonably say that TFS made fair lending decisions based 
on the information in front of it when it provided either of these loans. 
As Mr F has been further indebted with the costs of loans that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what TFS did wrong. 
So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Mr F hasnt 
raised any objection to that and I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the capital amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for lending that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr F shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr F received as a result of being given the loans. 
The payments Mr F made should be deducted from this amountif this results in Mr F having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr F bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions 
whilst its fair that Mr Fs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
loans that were unfairly provided. So TFS should remove any adverse information it 
placed on Mr Fs credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Mr F 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman