DRN-2631879
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs L. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs L was sold the policy during a phone call a few days after she completed an account 
application in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs L has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The application form Mrs L signed, has the section about PPI crossed out. So she doesnt 
seem to have thought it was something she either wanted or had to have in order to get the 
account at that point. Instead it appears Mrs L agreed to buy the PPI in a phone call a few 
days later. From what we know about how these calls were conducted, we think that Mrs L 
would have been told she had a choice about whether to buy the PPI or not.
One of the eligibility criteria for the PPI was that Mrs L had to be working for more than 16 
hours a week. 
When Mrs L completed the application form, she ticked to say she was working part time. 
She also ticked a box that said either she or her partner were working for more than 16 
hours a week.
 
Unfortunately that doesnt tell us whether Mrs L was working for more than 16 hours  and 
its her employment that counts towards the PPI eligibility, because she was the card holder. 
It is likely that she was asked the same question in the phone call where the PPI was sold, 
because that was a standard question. We dont have a record of her answer, unfortunately. 
So we asked Mrs L to tell us how many hours she worked. She said 15  hours. But she 
also sent us some information that she suggests she left that employer a couple of years 
before she got the card and the PPI. Shes since said she thinks she was receiving a 
disability living allowance and not working in 2004, although she hasnt been able to provide 
any evidence for this. Its understandable that this evidence is hard to find after 15 years or 
so. But Mrs Ls recent recollections dont match whats on the form she completed in 2004. I 
know memory can be unreliable over many years, so Im going to give more weight to what 
was on the form completed at the time than Mrs Ls memory on this point, and conclude she 
was likely working. I say that because I think that if shed said in 2004 she wasnt working at 
all, then she most likely wouldnt have got either the card or the PPI.
AXA told us that Mrs L said she actually had two jobs when she applied for the card, and 
was working about 30 hours a week.
Weighing all the contradictory information, I cant safely conclude that Mrs L was working 
fewer than 16 hours a week. So it wouldnt be fair for me to say the policy was mis-sold on 
this point.
Mrs L has said the PPI wasnt explained properly. It doesnt seem that AXA recommended 
the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ls individual needs. This means it didnt have 
to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs L to decide whether it 
was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Mrs L clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. With the exception of her working hours, which Ive already commented on, 
Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the form itself wasnt full 
enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to Mrs L. So Ive thought 
about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But given Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont 
think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
Although we dont know if Mrs L was entitled to sick pay when she got the PPI, the PPI 
would likely have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. It would have 
been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And she could have kept in 
reserve any other means she had for meeting her living costs and debts. So the PPI is likely 
still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman