DRN-3279184
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that HSBC Life (UK) Limited declined a claim she made on her employers 
group income protection scheme.
What happened
Mrs C is a member of her employers group income protection scheme. In March 2018 
she became absent from work due to an acute illness which caused her to be 
hospitalised.
Following the illness, she developed symptoms of fatigue, which has since been 
diagnosed as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS).
HSBC accepted Mrs Cs claim on the income protection policy once the 26 week deferred 
period had passed. They decided to terminate the claim with the final benefit due to be 
paid in February 2019. However, this was extended and the benefit was paid until April 
2019.
Mrs C made a complaint as she didnt think the decision to stop paying the claim was fair. 
HSBC maintained their decision to stop paying the claim and Mrs C complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She said that it 
was for HSBC to demonstrate that Mrs C no longer met the definition of incapacity. She 
didnt think that the medical evidence supported the decision to decline the claim and that 
HSBC hadnt considered all the relevant information. So, she recommended that HSBC 
reinstated the claim from April 2019 and pay 8% simple interest.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators recommendation and asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary, they said that their decision to close the claim in April 
2019 was correct based on the available evidence at the time. They highlighted the 
support that theyd offered to Mrs C, including a management plan to support her return to 
work. This included a structured exercise programme to support an improvement in fitness
and capability.
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I said that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. My provisional decision said: 
HSBC accepted Mrs Cs claim under the policy. So, its for HSBC to demonstrate 
that she no longer met the policy definition of incapacity when they decided to stop 
paying the benefit in April 2019.
The relevant definition of incapacity is own occupation in the policy terms and 
conditions. This means:
The Member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the Material and 
Substantial duties of his or her own Occupation and is not following any other 
Occupation.
Im not intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint as Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to stop paying the claim in April 2019. Ill explain why.
In September 2018 Mrs C attended an appointment for an Independent Medical 
Examination (IME). The appointment was with a Consultant Occupational 
Physician. The report said that Mrs C needed to develop a daily activity plan which 
was readily achievable and develop ways to cope with her fatigue. He said that 
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) was the only treatment likely to have been of 
benefit to help Mrs C to develop coping strategies. The consultant said that it could 
take until the Spring (of 2019) for Mrs C to be able to return to work. Finally, he said 
that it was, important to appreciate that payment of any income protection could 
well negatively affect her recovery unless this is time limited. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to rely on that recommendation and place a time limitation 
on the payment of the claim.
Between July 2018 and November 2019 HSBC implemented a management plan, 
overseen by a rehabilitation support service, to support Mrs C with her return to 
work. This included recovery support and work preparation support. In December 
2018 the support team arranged a Physical Exercise Assessment for Mrs C which 
took place in January 2019 and this was followed up with a series of Structured 
Exercise Programme appointments to set goals and build up physical capability. I 
think this reasonably implemented the recommendation of the Consultant 
Occupational Physician who had recommended an activity plan. This plan 
continued several months after HSBC stopped paying the benefit under the policy 
to Mrs C.
The Consultant Occupational Physician also recommended CBT as the only other 
treatment available to help Mrs C cope with her symptoms. Mrs C had CBT which 
concluded in September 2018, around the time of the independent medical 
examination. During an appointment in October 2018 Mrs C reported that the CBT 
helped her to cope better. In later sessions Mrs C also said shed started 
mindfulness and meditation classes. So, Im satisfied that the recommendations of 
the Consultant Occupational Physician were appropriately acted upon as part of the 
planned return to work.
Mrs C had limited contact with her GP about her condition between October 2018 
and March 2019. Later GP appointments in March 2019 focused on discussions 
about the need for reports for HSBC and similar reports relating to an application for 
state benefits.
Following the receipt of further information HSBC did agree to extend the payment 
of the benefit until April 2019, which I think was reasonable. But I dont think they 
were required to do so, given the conclusions of the IME report and the support had 
been put in place following the recommendations of the consultant.Taking all of the above into account the overall evidence Ive been provided with 
doesnt suggest there was a significant or sustained deterioration in Mrs Cs 
condition between the time the IME report was completed and the time that it was 
envisaged that shed return to work in 2019. I think HSBC took appropriate steps to 
put the recommendations of the IME into practice. And, based on the medical 
evidence thats available, I dont think Mrs C continued to meet the definition of 
incapacity as required under the terms of the policy. Im persuaded Mrs C would 
have been able to start a phased return to work by the end of April 2019. Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence that HSBC should have extended payment of the 
benefit beyond that date and so Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
HSBC said that they didnt have anything further to add. Mrs C made a number of further 
comments. In summary she said she:
has a work ethic and isnt work shy  she thinks that it is being implied that she is fit 
to return to work but doesnt want to 
engaged with the team who were there to support her return to work, including 
attending physiotherapy sessions
continued to visit work and her actions demonstrate she wanted to return to work 
had a demanding and challenging role  HSBC hadnt explored other roles which 
may have been available to her 
she acted under medical advice to rest as instructed by her GP 
following the advice of the IME she has developed a regime of planning and pacing, 
mindful movement and daily walks 
there was incorrect information in the first draft of the IME report, it was not based on 
facts and the IME perhaps came across as sexist
got the impression the IME didnt think CFS was an illness  his website suggested 
that a diagnosis of CFS was unhelpful and led to shirking 
didnt think that the reports from the GP suggested that all the appointments focused 
on insurance and state benefits 
faced changes at her GP surgery which made it difficult to get an appointment, 
particularly as the doctors were typically locums
has been denied a benefit she has paid for based on the preconceived opinion of 
someone who does not believe the illness exists. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and taking into account Mrs Cs further comments, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill focus on the points that I consider are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs C feels that the position HSBC took is a reflection on her work 
ethic. I want to reassure Mrs C that my decision is in no way a judgement or reflection on her 
attitude towards work or willingness to return to work. My role is to decide whether it was fair 
and reasonable for HSBC to stop paying the policy benefit, taking into account all of the 
available evidence. 
The crux of Mrs Cs argument is that the IME had a pre-conceived opinion and didnt believe 
that the illness she was suffering from exists. In her response to my provisional decision 
Mrs C pointed to a number of concerns about the IME and the content of the report. 
I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the IME had formed an opinion on Mrs Cs 
circumstances prior to the report being completed. Ive reviewed the consultants 
background and experience and I think HSBC relied on the evidence of a suitably qualified 
expert. Mrs C explained that there were some factual inaccuracies in the first draft but I 
understand these were corrected. In my view the substantive findings of the report are 
balanced and factual. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs comments about the consultants website. But I dont think they 
demonstrate any obvious bias towards patients, including those experiencing medically 
unexplained symptoms. For example, the article on the website reflects that there is much 
debate about how best to describe unexplained or exaggerated symptoms. And it explains 
some of the impact and challenges of medical developments and advances on patients. So, 
overall, I dont think it suggests that the IME was biased towards Mrs C or her particular 
condition.
I appreciate that Mrs C felt that a reference in the report was potentially sexist. Having 
considered the IME report as a whole, the comments made  including the particular 
comment Mrs C is unhappy with  and the conclusions reached I dont think HSBC ought 
reasonably to have been alerted to the consultant having a bias against women. I make no 
finding that the consultant did hold such a bias. But having reviewed the available evidence I 
dont think HSBC has unreasonably relied on the contents of the report when deciding to 
terminate the claim.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs C did engage with HSBC and that since the IME visited 
she says that shes implemented the further advice that she was given. As I outlined in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that HSBC implemented the consultants recommendation 
over a reasonable period of time. And, on the basis of the consultants recommendation, it 
wasnt unreasonable to terminate the claim around a year after Mrs C had first become 
unwell, and around six months after the consultant made the recommendations about how 
best to support Mrs C to return to work. 
Although Mrs C feels HSBC should have explored other roles for her the policy terms require 
the claim to be assessed on the basis of her own occupation as opposed to other roles that 
may be available. And, in any event, the medical evidence from the IME indicated that she 
ought to have been able to return to work at the time the claim was terminated.  
Whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs C I think HSBC acted reasonably when terminating 
the claim, on the basis of the available medical evidence, when they did.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman