DRN-3923304
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have wrongly applied interest 
to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card with Nationwide. He set up a direct debit to clear the outstanding 
balance each month. He called Nationwide to reduce the payment of his direct debit to a set 
amount. Mr S says that he intended this to be a one-off change, and that his payments 
would be for the full amount each month after this. Nationwide says that it advised him that 
he would need to call again to amend his direct debit to the full balance. Mr S says that he 
understood it would change back to payment of the full balance automatically.
Mr S did not call again to change the direct debit, so it stayed at that set amount, rather than 
the full balance. The payment date for the May statement was 3 June 2022, but the direct 
debit was not taken until 4 June 2022. When this money was taken, Mr S noticed that it was 
not enough to clear the balance, and made a payment the same day to clear the full 
balance. As this was over the weekend, both payments were credited to the account on 6 
June 2022.
The account terms say that, if the balance on a statement is paid in full by the due date, then 
no interest will be charged. Nationwide says that Mr Ss payment was three days after the 
statement due date, and so interest was properly charged upon it from the date of the 
account statement. It says that the following month, Mr S made a payment for less than the 
amount given on his account statement, and so interest continued to be properly charged. It 
says that it has previously waived fees for Mr S, but that its policies prevent it from doing so 
more than once a year, unless it has done something wrong.
Our investigator thought that Nationwide had not done anything wrong. They thought that the 
direct debit had been changed appropriately and that interest had been calculated properly 
on each statement.
Mr S did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call on which Mr S amended the direct debit payment to a set amount. I 
am satisfied that the staff member made clear that the payment would have to be changed 
again by Mr S if he wished to clear the balance again in future. Mr S went so far as to say 
that he would call back to do so, and so I am satisfied that he understood this position during 
the call, and later forgot.
I am satisfied that the terms of the account meant that clearing the May statement balance 
by 3 June 2022 would have meant that no additional interest would be due in relation to it. 
The direct debit was collected on 4 June 2022, but that did not change the payment due 
date. It fell to Mr S to pay the balance in full by 3 June 2022 if he wished to avoid interest 
being charged. Given that he had set up a direct debit in a set amount, he needed to make 
sure that the remainder of the May balance was paid by alternative means. He did not do so 
until after the payment due date. This meant that interest, from the date of the account 
statement to the date of payment, was chargeable on the balance under the terms of the 
account. This is around a months worth of interest. I am satisfied that the relevant 
statements show the correct sums.
I can well understand that Mr S had forgotten about the need to change the direct debit until 
he saw the lower amount go out. I am satisfied that he intended to clear the balance in full, 
and so made a payment for the remainder of the May balance. But he did so after the 
payment deadline and so interest was properly added. The taking of the direct debit was the 
thing that reminded him, but it was not the trigger for payment falling due. He needed to 
make the remainder payment before 3 June 2022 to avoid interest being charged.
While I can certainly understand Mr Ss frustration at being charged interest in these 
circumstances, I am satisfied that it was in line with the terms on the account and that it was 
fair for Nationwide to do so. While Nationwide has previously made goodwill gestures of 
refunding fees or interest, I cannot order this where it has not acted unfairly. I have seen no 
evidence of any unfairly charged interest here, and I am not going to ask Nationwide to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman