DRN-1619843
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about what happened in a branch of Lloyds Bank plc when he went to make 
a payment. He said that staff discriminated against him and failed to take account of his 
mental health needs. 
What happened
Mr L said he told a member of staff in a branch that he suffers with anxiety and they 
responded who doesnt?. Mr L also explained that he didnt want to wait in a queue to 
deposit money. He was directed to a paying in machine to make his payment. But he says 
that machine was only accepting cheques. Mr L said he had to wait for twenty minutes in the 
queue. There was only one member of staff serving but there were other staff members just 
walking around the branch. 
Mr L said he missed an important health appointment because of the length of time he was 
in the branch. And he said he had an anxiety attack as a result of the staff members 
behaviour.
Mr L also said another staff member then rang him to intimidate him. And he said he felt 
discriminated against because of his mental health conditions. Mr L wanted more 
compensation than the £75 Lloyds had offered him. 
Lloyds said it was sorry about what had gone wrong. It was sorry that the deposit machine 
wasnt working properly when Mr L was in the branch, and that hed been delayed waiting to 
be served at the counter. Lloyds said not all of its staff are trained to serve on the counters. 
But it was sorry that Mr L had missed a subsequent appointment, because of the time he 
spent waiting in the branch. Lloyds paid Mr L £75 in compensation. 
Our investigator said he was sorry to hear that Mr L had an unpleasant experience in the 
branch, and he hoped Mr L was no longer feeling afraid. He said Lloyds was willing to record 
Mr Ls mental health information on his file, if Mr L agreed to that. Our investigator thought 
this would be a good idea, because then branch staff would understand Mr Ls condition. 
Our investigator said Lloyds had no record of a call being made to Mr L after he left the 
branch. And our investigator also though that Lloyds had tried to put things right. He didnt 
think it needed to pay more compensation. 
Mr L thought wed just stuck up for Lloyds. He said hed been discriminated against. He 
didnt think that Lloyds would discriminate or that we would be supporting Lloyds if he had a 
physical disability. Mr L said if we checked the relevant records there would be evidence of 
the phone call Lloyds made to him. 
Our investigator said Lloyds had no record of this call, and he said CCTV of the event was 
no longer available. Hed tried to make sure that Mr L would be treated fairly in the branch in 
future, and that Lloyds staff could be made aware of his needs. Mr L didnt agree, he said 
that Lloyds knew it had done wrong, or it wouldnt have tried to palm him off with £75. 
Because Mr L and our investigator didnt agree, our investigator told Mr L the case would be 
passed to an ombudsman to consider. Then the case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required, amongst other things, to take 
into account relevant law and regulations. Mr L says Lloyds treated him unfavourably 
because of his mental health conditions, so if those conditions amount to a disability as 
defined by the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA), the EqA is relevant to this complaint. But, 
ultimately, its not our role to determine whether Lloyds has breached the EqA  thats the 
role of the courts. And in this particular case I dont think I need to determine whether a court 
is likely to find whether Mr Ls conditions amount to a disability and so whether the EqA is a 
relevant consideration in this complaint. Thats because Lloyds accepted it couldve treated 
Mr L better in branch. So, Im satisfied it hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in some aspects 
of the service it provided Mr L.
  
In its final response letter, Lloyds accepted that things in the branch happened as Mr L 
described them and that includes a member of staff responding inappropriately when Mr L 
told them he suffered with anxiety.  Lloyds has said sorry for that, and paid £75 in 
compensation. I accept the response he received from Lloyds member of staff wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr L and Im satisfied this amount fairly reflects the distress caused. So I 
wont ask Lloyds to do more here.
On our investigators suggestion, Lloyds has also made some notes on Mr Ls file so that it 
can be more aware of his needs in future, which Im glad to see. 
Ive also looked at what else happened when Mr L was in the branch  and apart from the 
inappropriate comment that was made  I think Lloyds tried to support him. It tried to speed 
up his deposit, by guiding him to the paying in machine. He said this wasnt working as it 
shouldve, so he had to wait. But he also said that one person took a long time to be served. 
I think its just unfortunate that this person ahead of Mr L took some time. I dont think thats 
unfair or unreasonable treatment of Mr L by Lloyds. I also dont think its Lloyds fault if Mr L 
then missed an appointment.
Mr L said Lloyds also rang him to intimidate him after he left the branch. He says he was told 
that he shouldnt have left in such a rush and when he said he suffered with anxiety, Lloyds 
representative laughed. 
Lloyds says it has no record of this call. And if it had called Mr L, it says there would be a 
footprint of this on its systems. Ive seen a screen shot of entries relating to Mr L on Lloyds 
systems from before and after the date he says this phone call took place but theres no 
entry indicating anyone called him.  Of course, that doesnt mean that the call didnt take 
place, but I have to consider whats likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Given that Mr L paid in the money he wanted to and didnt want a receipt, Lloyds says there 
wouldve been no need to call Mr L, later that evening, after he left branch. I accept that. So 
weighing everything up, Im not persuaded a member of Lloyds staff rang Mr L and was 
rude to him over the phone  particularly as the call wouldve taken place outside of normal 
branch hours.  I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont uphold his complaint on this 
point.Because Lloyds has done enough, in my view, to make up for what I think has gone wrong in 
this case, I dont think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman