DRN-3641735
The complaint
Mr A complained because TSB Bank plc refused to refund him for a transaction he said he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr A had a credit card with TSB. On 4 May 2021, a £28.78 transaction to an internet domain 
registrar company debited his account.
Mr A contacted TSB and said the transaction was fraudulent, and he hadnt authorised it. 
TSB gave Mr A a temporary credit on 19 May, and investigated.
On 9 June, TSB wrote to Mr A. It sent him a copy of a document the merchant had provided. 
TSB said that this showed that the purchase had been made by him, or by someone he lived 
with. As it wasnt a fraudulent transaction, TSB said it would be taking back the temporary 
credit. It did that on 19 July.
Mr A complained, saying he was the victim of a cyber gang who had accessed his credit 
card, and mobile phone, and that his personal safety was in danger. He said hed contacted 
the police.
TSBs final response letter didnt uphold Mr As complaint, because of the evidence from the 
merchant. It noted that Mr A had contacted the police, and said they should contact TSBs 
police liaison department about his claim, for TSB to review.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked TSB to reconsider. TSB replied on 12 November that it 
felt the decision it had given him was fair. So it wouldnt contact him again about this unless 
he raised new issues or provided new information. TSB said that as it had previously told 
him, the police would need to contact TSBs fraud liaison team for it to review Mr As claim.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed given full details to the 
police, and sent us a detailed letter about what he believed was an ongoing cyber criminal 
gangs attacks on him. As an outcome, he said he wanted a refund; TSB to inform the 
merchant that Mr A had been hacked; and for TSB to highlight this type of crime to the 
public. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He said that TSB had shown that the 
payment had been authorised using Mr As TSB credit card. The payee was one used 
regularly by Mr A, and the amount was in line with Mr As normal spending, so there was no 
reason why TSB would have had any cause to question the payment. The payment 
appeared to be a renewal of subscription to Mr As account with the merchant, and there had 
been undisputed transactions in the past. So the investigator considered the payment was 
likely to have been authorised by Mr A.
Mr A didnt agree. He sent a detailed letter. In summary, he said he was very concerned 
about his personal and financial safety. He said that the criminal gang wouldnt initially use 
large transactions, and would wait to see whether small amounts were identified as fraud. 
He said there were signs of financial fraud and a ransom attack, and the investigator had 
ignored his financial and personal safety. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr A is worried about his personal and financial safety. But my role is confined 
to the much narrower issue of whether or not TSB acted fairly when it turned down Mr As 
request for a £28.78 refund which he said he hadnt authorised. For the wider issues such as 
personal safety, Mr A will need to consult other authorities, such as the police.
In relation to the disputed £28.78 transaction, there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. For a transaction in May 2021, the relevant regulations are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, these say that the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So I need 
to determine whether its more likely than not that Mr A authorised this payment.
Ive seen the computer records of the payment, which was authorised using Mr As TSB 
card. Ive also seen the merchants defence of the claim, which enclosed a copy of the 
receipt for a renewal of the purchase of a domain name. This says its for a renewal. And the 
merchant has also sent evidence to show previous years subscriptions, for a similar 
amount. Mr A only opened his TSB credit card in May 2019, so not all previous payments 
would have been made from his TSB account. But I consider that the evidence from the 
merchant is persuasive, so I conclude that the £28.78 was a renewal of a subscription, for a 
service which Mr A had authorised and paid for in previous years.
As the merchant had provided evidence that the payment had genuinely been owed by Mr A, 
I find that TSB didnt do anything wrong when it re-debited the disputed amount.
Id also point out that it would be very unlikely that any fraudster would make a payment for 
£28.78, for a service for a domain name in Mr As name. I recognise that Mr A said he 
believes the gangs would take a small payment first, then see if these were identified as 
fraud. But I dont consider thats what happened here. Mr As credit limit was £4,950 at the 
time of the disputed transaction. And at the time, there was over £1,000 of this limit which Mr 
A hadnt used. So I consider that fraudsters would have taken considerably more than 
£28.78, and they wouldnt have purchased something which was for a service in Mr As own 
name.
Taking these factors into account, I consider its most likely that the disputed payment had 
been genuinely authorised by Mr A, and I dont require TSB to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman