DRN-2895150
The complaint
Mrs K (via a representative) says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) 
lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ks complaint. Mutual did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ks complaint based on the information that I had to hand. I asked both parties to 
respond by 25 June 2021.
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
This complaint is about five home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs K between
November 2012 and August 2015. Below is table of the lending based on the information
provided to us from Mutual.
loan number loan amount received dateactual 
repayment dateterm (weeks)
1 £200.00 10/11/2012 30/10/2013 51
2 £300.00 16/03/2013 20/08/2014 51
3 £300.00 26/10/2013 20/08/2014 51
4 £660.00 23/08/2014 outstanding 102
5 £300.00 29/08/2015 outstanding 51
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. Mutual says that Mrs K raised her complaint
too late for loans 1  3. The adjudicator, based on the information she had to hand wasnt in
a position to say that these loans were made in time, and therefore were outside of this
services jurisdiction.
But, the adjudicator upheld loans 4 and 5 because on top of believing Mutual needed to
carry out further checks before granting these loans, the adjudicator also thought Mutual
ought to have known, by the pattern of Mrs Ks lending that these loans were now
unsustainable for her.
Mrs Ks representative appears to have accepted the adjudicators outcome.
Mutual didnt agree, and in response it provided us a lengthy report with annexes. I want to
make it clear, that I have read, in full the response weve received from Mutual but as Im
intending to not uphold the complaint, I havent commented on the specifics of it any further.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman,
for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Mrs K didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to look at loans 1 - 3. Because of this
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, Im not going to
consider these loans in any further detail. But what I would say, is that Mrs K did take these
loans, so I will be thinking about these loans when reviewing Mrs Ks overall lending
relationship with Mutual. Instead this decision will focus on loans 4 and 5.
Broadly speaking Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to
make sure Mrs K could repay her loans.
These checks could take into account several different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Mrs K. These factors include:
Mrs K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs K. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
When loans 4 and 5 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ks complaint.Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im intending to reach a
different outcome to adjudicator. Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs K complaint
and Ive explained why below. As Ive said above, I wont be looking at loans 1 - 3, and
instead Ill focus on loans 4 and 5.
Loan 4
This was Mrs Ks largest loan to date, to be repaid over the longest term to date, almost two
years. This loan was also taken out three days after loans 2 and 3 had been repaid. And,
given the intended term of loan 2, I think Mrs K must have had some problems repaying this.
I say this as the loan was due to run for 51 weeks, whereas it took closer to 18 months to
repay. But the repayment for loan 4 was around £10 per week, which is a decrease
compared to what Mrs K was repaying loans 2 and 3 which was around £16 per week.
Mutual says the agent wouldnt have approved loans where Mrs K was struggling to repay
and Mutual says that if Mrs K fell behind with payments but had since returned making full
repayments it would be reasonable to conclude their circumstances had improved.
However, Mutual hasnt told us exactly when repayments were missed (or whether Mrs K
just chose to pay a lower sum each week). Mutual also says that it carried out affordability
checks which wouldve allowed it to lend again.
So, thinking about the extended term that Mrs K was going to be indebted to Mutual, along
with the fact this was her largest weekly repayment for any singular loan and the apparent
repayment problems she had with loan 2, I think Mutuals checks needed to go further then
just relying on the information Mrs K wouldve likely provided it in my view, it had now
reached the point that Mutual needed to be verifying the information Mrs K had provided.
But I would point out that Mutual hasnt provided us with the information that it gathered at
the time. It also suggests that a credit search was carried out, but again, no information or
results have been provided about this.
In order to verify Mrs Ks information Mutual couldve gone about doing this a number of
ways, it couldve asked for copies of her bank statements, or taking copies of payslips along
with some evidence of bills. Mutual didnt do this and so I dont think its checks were
proportionate.
But, Mrs K or her representative hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show what her
financial position was likely to be at the time. Without any further information, I cant say that
had Mutual carried out better checks it wouldve likely found that out that Mrs K couldnt
afford the repayments she was committed to making.
Ive also considered that the adjudicator upheld this loan due to Mrs Ks pattern of lending.
Ive thought very carefully about this, but I dont yet think it had reached the point that Mutual
ought to have realised that these repayments were no longer sustainable for her. I accept 
that Mrs K had been indebted to Mutual for a couple of years, but apart from that, in my 
view, there were no other signs that Mrs K may have struggled to repay this loan.
Loan 5
When loan 5 was approved, loan 4 was still outstanding, so although the amount borrowed
was smaller than her previous loan (£600) Mrs K was actually committed to paying Mutual
more, around £18 per week. And like the majority of Mrs Ks previous loan  this one was
due to run for 51 weeks.For this loan, Mutual has supplied this service, with the income and expenditure information
it gathered from Mrs K. It was told Mrs Ks income was £163 per week. And Mutual also
knew that the household expenses were £195 per week. So, while the household
expenditure was more than Mrs Ks income, I think it was reasonable to have believed that
Mrs Ks partner wouldve contributed towards this cost. It wouldve seemed to Mutual that
Mrs K was likely to be able to afford a weekly repayment of around £18 (total due for loans 4
and 5).
But what I would say, is that I do have some concerns about the way Mutual collected this
information. It collected the household income and the household expenses. But it didnt
take any details of Mrs Ks partners expenses, so it had no idea what their credit
commitments or other costs that they may have had. But in this case, I dont think it has a
material impact on the outcome. But even with these concerns, I dont think the checks went
far enough.
So, for this loan, like loan 4, I think Mutual needed to carry out more in-depth checks, given
the term and commitment Mrs K was expected to make. But, like loan 4, I dont have any
information about Mrs Ks financial situation so I cant conclude what Mutual may have seen
had it carried out furthermore in-depth checks such as verification of her information.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint because in their view, Mrs K was reliant on this
lending and shed been indebted for just under three years when this loan was approved.
But I dont agree, and Ive explained why below.
Mrs K had been indebted to Mutual for just under three years but in that time she had only
taken four previous loans. Equally, the repayments, based on what Mutual saw appeared
affordable, Mrs K was committing a small amount of her declared income each week to
Mutual. There is also, in my view, no evidence to suggest that Mrs Ks indebtedness was
increasing unreasonably or seemed harmful in any other way.
I acknowledge that this wasnt the first time Mrs K had an overlapping loan, but I dont think
that on its own is sufficient for me to be able to conclude that this loan, just based on the
pattern of lending was harmful for Mrs K.
So, overall, having considered everything Im intending not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. It
does seem Mrs K had some problems repaying her final two loans and I would remind
Mutual to treat Mrs K fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mutual and Mrs Ks representatives have not provided any additional information or 
comments for me to consider following the provisional decision.
Therefore, because there were no further comments, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision. Overall, I still dont think the checks Mutual 
carried out before it approved loans 4 and 5 were proportionate but based on the information 
I have to hand, I dont think it made an error by providing them.
Finally, Id remind Mutual of its obligation to treat Mrs K fairly when dealing with the 
outstanding balances that are due. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding
Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman