DRN-2977665
The complaint
Mr H complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) has unfairly declined a claim made under his 
building guarantee. 
Throughout this decision, any reference to Mr H or SoL includes respective 
representatives, agents or contractors unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr Hs owns a penthouse flat which is covered by a SoL ten-year building guarantee. 
This commenced in 2009.
This included a defect insurance period (DIP) which covers certain issues discovered 
within the first two years if the developer fails to resolve them and SoL intervenes.
And a structural insurance period (SIP) which provides cover for certain issues 
discovered in years three to ten.
SoL says soon after the purchase issues were reported to the developer due to water 
ingress. It says the developer carried out works unsuccessfully to repair the roof. 
In December 2014 one of Mr Hs neighbours (Mr A) made a claim to SoL  regarding 
the roof of a terrace area - which was declined.
Across 2016/2017 claims were made to SoL about the failure of the buildings 
waterproof envelope in several places  including the failure of render, water damage 
to a ground floor flat, and the failure of the roof. SoL accepted liability for the claims 
presented under the SIP with the exception of the penthouse roof. It said issues with 
this roof had arisen earlier during the DIP and therefore werent covered as SoL 
hadnt been told about them in line with the policy.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. He also arranged for the repairs to his roof 
to be carried out separately.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied there was no cover under the 
DIP, but under the SIP he said several reports suggested defects were due to poor 
installation and workmanship which caused the failure of the waterproof envelope of 
the building. He concluded SoL should deal with this claim under the SIP and should 
reimburse Mr H for reasonable repair costs up to our services award limit and 
recommended it pay any further reasonable repair costs in excess.
Mr H accepted the view, but SoL didnt. It said defects had been discovered during 
the policys DIP period which were remedied by the developer and not raised with the 
insurer. It said a subsequent claim about defective render arose at a separate time 
and with an identifiable separate cause of loss. So, it said there was no cover 
applicable for the roof under the SIP.
Our investigator considered this but didnt change his mind. He said the loss 
adjusters report suggested the failure of the buildings entire waterproof envelope 
considered in 2017 included damage to the penthouse roof that was different from 
that identified and remedied previously by the developer during the DIP. And he said 
he had been given nothing to support that the issues identified were a re-occurrence 
of earlier issues.
SoL provided further evidence and comments. This included a claim form from 
another flat owner (Mr A) from December 2014, which said:
Water damage has been consistent since building purchase. Builder has tried to fix it 
over last 5 years to no avail.
Builder has come numerous time [sic] to fix it, and the [sic] never been addressed 
properly
SoL said this evidenced the damage was ongoing, with notification to the developer 
five years prior and works since undertaken to repair being unsuccessful. SoL 
concluded that it would only be liable for defects within DIP that the developer had 
refused to repair, and that hadnt taken place here, reiterating that it wasnt notified at 
the time as required by the policy terms, only several years after. So, it said it was 
correct to decline the claim in 2014 and in 2017.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 14 July 2021. Ive included an extract of this below.
Was there cover under the DIP?
Mr H hasnt disputed that theres no cover for the damage the property faces under 
the DIP section of cover. For completeness Ive outlined the terms and my thoughts 
on this topic.
Under Defects Insurance the policy says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Defects Insurance 
Period against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any Defect in the 
Housing Unit for which the Developer is responsible and which is discovered 
and notified to the Developer during the Defects Insurance Period and which is 
notified to the Underwriter within 6 months of the expiry of the Defects 
Insurance Period.
In this case it seems the developer was contacted about the damage and it carried 
out various works across the following years. As above, the policy specifies this must 
be brought to the attention of the underwriter (SoL) within six months of the expiry of 
the DIP. This would mean that the matter would need to be raised with SoL around 
2011/2012 at the latest. From what Ive seen, this didnt take place and the matter 
wasnt raised with SoL until many years after. So Im satisfied any issues that had 
occurred during this time wouldve been fairly declined by SoL in line with the policy 
terms.
Was there cover under the SIP?
So Ive gone on to consider the cover under the SIP aspect of the policy. Under 
Structural Insurance the policy says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and 
notified to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
1) The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit 
which has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of 
the Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each 
Housing Unit to its original specification;2) The cost of repairing or making good any defects in the chimneys and flues of 
each Housing Unit which was newly constructed by the Developer causing an 
imminent danger to the health and safety of occupants.
Major damage is defined within the policy as:
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which 
a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
b) A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of 
or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of 
Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
In either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components of:
the Structure; or
the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope 
which is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
So, for the purposes of this claim and complaint, the key considerations are whether 
major damage has taken place, and whether this was first discovered during the SIP 
(as discovery during the DIP would mean the claim wont be covered).
When did the damage take place?
Ill begin by looking at when the damage took place. SoL has provided claim notes 
from December 2014 that indicate there have been ongoing water ingress issues 
since the property was purchased that were unresolved by the developer despite 
numerous attempts at repair. Its also provided reports that quote Mr H himself 
making reference to water ingress issues occurring as far back as the time of 
purchase.
This suggests to me that any particular water ingress issues experienced from the 
time of purchase, or that stem from these, would fall outside of the SIP as theyd 
been discovered during the DIP.
So, Ive looked at the claim from 2017 and evidence around this to establish whether 
the damage in question is most likely the same cause as the previous water ingress 
issues. SoL has said these matters are one and the same.
Within its first visit report SoL noted that previous work had been carried out to the 
roof and that the decking appeared to have been fitted by the developers to cover 
previous repairs, and it said the original tiled finish had been covered with a 
waterproof membrane and overlaid with timber decking. And from the report, it 
seems some of this information appeared to come from Mr H himself. On its face, 
this suggests to me these matters are all interlinked and were discovered outside of 
the SIP.
Mr H has told our service that Mr A had some issues within the first two years in 
the winter with a leak in the roof above his flat but the developers repeatedly came 
back trying to address the issues. He had no reason to believe the issue would not 
be fixed eventually. I think this is supported by Mr As claim form that suggests he 
had tried to resolve matters with the developers for some time. Mr H went on to say:
Some years later when the seriousness of the issues became clear, these early 
issues as far as I am aware have been used as the basis of the rejection - with [SoL] 
saying that they should have been alerted within the first two years Other flat 
owners who then suffered many years later with issues with a failing roof  should not then be penalised by the issues unknown to them with a different flat in the first 2 
years.
This persuades me that Mr H has acknowledged that the water ingress of the roof 
was previously discovered, just not by himself. And based on the evidence Ive seen 
it appears Mr H was aware of the ongoing matters since purchase (as reflected in the 
reports SoL has provided). So, I think SoLs approach to consider this matter as 
discovered within the DIP period is a fair and reasonable one. For this reason, Im 
satisfied the claim has been fairly declined, and I see no reason to go on to consider 
whether major damage has taken place.
For these reasons I explained I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint and gave both 
parties an opportunity to respond. SoL provided nothing further, but Mr H disagreed, Ive 
summarised his response below:
Mr H said his flat had not suffered damage previously, but the roof works carried out 
for Mr A who lives below him had required access to his property. Mr H says he was 
not directly involved in this action or fully informed of what was happening. 
Mr H says the damage identified between 2009 and 2012 within Mr As flat was 
limited to only this property. And given the developer had been working on the 
problem, he hadnt needed to raise this with SoL. 
Mr H highlighted a handbook hed been given that is a guide to the cover. This says:
Defects Insurance Period (Years 1 and 2 of your policy)
During this period, it is the responsibility of your developer to repair any 
problems with your property, so if you have any issues with your home, you 
need to notify your developer in writing as soon as possible.
If you encounter any problems, you should contact our claims team.
Mr H says regardless of what the policy may say, the handbook says issues only 
need to be raised with the insurer in the event of a problem  which there wasnt. And 
between 2010 and 2014 the developers had continued to work to fix the issues which 
included occasional leaks.
Mr H says Mr As claim only concerned his own flat, and not any surrounding 
properties. And that these surrounding flats only discovered issues from 2015 
onwards. And that it wasnt fair for the insurer to rely on the action/inaction of Mr A 
when considering other claims when other flat owners were not aware of these 
issues until years after.
Mr H has also said this complaint concerns a range of claims and not just from his 
own flat. He asks me to approach this complaint in the same manner as our 
investigator. And he has provided photos of the building to help my understanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive outlined within my provisional decision, SoL was not contacted within six 
months of the expiry of the DIP. And Ive been given nothing to show me this was not 
the case. So, I havent changed my mind on this point.
Mr H has said the wider extent of this initial damage only became apparent years 
after. But I think it still stands that the ongoing problems across several years appear linked to the later damage  and he was aware of this. And so, I think its reasonable 
for SoL to consider that the issues were discovered or stem from issues discovered 
during that DIP period. 
In regards to the SIP  while I take on board Mr Hs point that he wasnt directly 
involved in the works, I think his comments further support that he was personally 
aware of the ongoing works over a number years while he was providing access to 
his property. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
I take on board Mr Hs comments about the handbook he was given. However this 
handbook is brief in nature and intended to give an overview of cover, meaning it 
provides little detail. Within the introduction of the document it says:
A copy of your policy will have been provided by your developer so make sure you 
read this so you know exactly what is covered.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the handbook should be read in isolation, nor do I think 
it would be reasonable for SoL to overlook the terms of the policy in light of it. So this 
hasnt changed my mind. 
The complaint Ive considered relates to the claim brought by Mr H  not other 
leaseholders in line with our investigators previous view and commentary. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman