DRN-3479566
The complaint
Miss R complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services 
(VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
The brakes failed on Miss Rs car in April 2021 and the recovery engineer noted that the 
passenger side rear brake calliper had come off. Miss R has explained that earlier that day 
shed collided with a child and had been unable to stop. 
The relevant legislation says that when a fault is present within the first six months the 
assumption is that the fault was present when the car was supplied to the consumer. The 
business havent sought to dispute that assumption. They repaired the car at no cost to 
Miss R and provided her with a courtesy car. 
On 19 May 2021, a little over six months after the car had first been supplied to Miss R, it 
was returned to the dealership again as Miss R was unhappy with the brakes. On that 
occasion the dealerships notes show that a repair was carried out to the drivers side rear 
calliper and that the front brake discs and pads were replaced as they were overly worn. 
Miss R wasnt charged for the repair.
I understand that Miss R is unhappy with the car and given the problems shes had with it 
she no longer trusts the brakes. Shed like to reject the vehicle, but I dont think that would 
be fair in the circumstances. Ill explain.
The business had a responsibility to repair the passenger side rear brake calliper in April 
2021 because it had failed within the first six months and the relevant legislation therefore 
held them responsible  as Ive already explained. If that repair subsequently failed then the 
relevant legislation may have allowed Miss R to reject the car.
But when the car was taken back for repairs in May 2021 those repairs were to different 
parts of the braking system and theyd failed more than six months after the car had been 
supplied. The relevant legislation, in those circumstances, puts the onus on the consumer to 
demonstrate the fault was present or developing from the start. I dont think Ive seen 
enough evidence to suggest the problems experienced with the brakes in May were present 
when the car was supplied or that they were linked in any way to the previous repair in April.
The repair notes from May 2021 dont refer to any problem with the rear passenger side 
calliper that was repaired the previous month. 
I think its fair to say that brakes are wear and tear items and on a car that had already done 
over 41,000 miles some wear and tear, such as that noted at the time, would be likely to 
occur.
The business were prepared to carry out that repair at no cost to Miss R. I think that was fair 
of them and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask them to support a rejection of the car.
The subsequent independent inspection carried out in June 2021 confirmed there were no 
problems with the brakes and that the car was performing satisfactorily.
However, its clear that Miss R has experienced distress and inconvenience here. Shes had 
to have her mother drive her some distance to collect her courtesy car, has been concerned 
about the safety of the vehicle and clearly been distressed about the accident she says she 
had as I have seen a copy of a wellbeing report from her employer setting that out. But I also 
take account of VWFSs actions here. They have been reasonably quick to respond and to 
arrange a thorough inspection of the car to ensure the brakes were now safe to drive and to 
give Miss R some peace of mind. They didnt contest the repair charges and have provided 
a courtesy car were necessary. In the circumstances I think VWFS should pay Mrs R £250 in 
compensation.
Putting things right
Im asking VWFS to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Miss R £250 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman