DRN-3131331
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
There is limited information available about this matter but from what Ive seen, Mr P 
borrowed £1,000 from Oakbrook in October 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of about £75. The total amount repayable was around £1,823.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think there was enough 
information to say that Oakbrook had been wrong to provide Mr P with the loan. Mr Ps 
representatives disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint has not been 
settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Oakbrook needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr P irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Oakbrook carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
P was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Oakbrook make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way?
Oakbrook was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. 
Oakbrook had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Oakbrook had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Mr P.
Oakbrook asked Mr P for information about his income and it acquired credit information 
before providing the loan. Oakbrook says that it thinks its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him.
As Ive explained, there is limited information available about what happened at the time. 
Oakbrook says it does not hold a credit report from the time it lent to Mr P, but says it has 
some information extracted from the credit check.  Oakbrook says Mr P had outstanding 
credit of around £9,400 with a number of active accounts. It says that Mr P was maintaining 
his credit and paying bills as expected and that Mr P had said he was living at home at the 
time with limited outgoings. 
Oakbrook has supplied a credit search undertaken at the point Mr P raised his complaint in 
2021. And Mr Ps representative has also supplied a credit check which it says was carried 
out by another business about five months prior to Mr Ps application to Oakwood. Ive 
thought carefully about these documents. I can see there is some adverse information 
included but I cant fairly say what information would have been available to Oakwood at the 
time it carried out its checks before lending to Mr P in October 2019.  A lender might only 
see a portion of the credit file at the time, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or 
the data might not be up to date. New credit commitments can take some time to appear on 
a credit report and so dont always appear in any reasonable and proportionate checks that 
are carried out at the time. So, this may explain any differences between the information 
provided by these credit checks and the information Mr P says Oakwood should have seen 
in October 2019.  
Oakwood thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate. Mr P was apparently living at 
home with limited outgoings. But the evidence that Oakwood gathered at the time showed 
that Mr P had several credit cards and at least 2 other loans outstanding. Mr P was applying 
to Oakbrook for a costly loan, repayable over an extended two-year period. I would have 
expected the lender to want to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Ps financial 
circumstances to satisfy itself that he could sustainably repay the loan over the whole loan 
term. Overall, I havent seen enough information for me to say that I think Oakbrooks checks 
were reasonable or proportionate.
However, even if Oakwood had carried out more in-depth checks at the time, its not clear to 
me whether the lender would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr P 
might have difficulty repaying his loan sustainably. Mr P was asked to provide his bank 
statements by this Service, but he hasnt been able to do so. I cant fairly say, from what Ive 
seen, that better checks ought reasonably to have led Oakwood to conclude that it shouldnt 
lend to Mr P. And from what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that I think Oakbrook ought simply to 
have declined the loan application based on the information it had gathered.On the basis of the limited evidence available, I cant fairly say that Oakwood lent to Mr P 
irresponsibly.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Oakbrook treated Mr P unfairly in any 
other way. And as I have explained, on the information provided, I cant fairly say that I think 
Oakbrook ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Mr P. I know Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision.  But Id like to reassure him that I have carefully considered 
everything that both he and Oakbrook have told us and all the information that has been 
provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about this loan.
I am sorry if Mr P has experienced difficulties repaying his loan from Oakbrook. If the lending 
is still outstanding, I would expect Oakbrook to treat Mr P sympathetically and try to agree a 
repayment plan with him that is affordable for Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman