DRN-2065754
The complaint
Mr P says the way Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him was 
irresponsible.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Mr P five loans between April 2012 and September 2013 which were 
all due to be repaid in instalments.  
Heres a table showing loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Combined* 
Repayment
1 09-Apr-12 22-Apr-12 5 £115.00 £63.25
2 29-Jul-12 23-Oct-12 6 £435.00 £217.50
3 03-Apr-13 21-Jun-13 6 £495.00 £247.50
4 21-Jun-13 Balance 
outstanding6 £300.00 £135.00
5 09-Sep-13 Balance 
outstanding6 £50.00 £137.00
*this shows the highest repayment Mr P wouldve had to make where loans overlapped
Mr P complained that Lending Stream shouldnt have given him loans when he was already 
borrowing from numerous lenders and struggling with debt.  
When Lending Stream looked at Mr Ps complaint, it said that it had relied on the checks it 
carried out to assess his creditworthiness and ability to repay. This ensured the lending was 
affordable and so it didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about all the loans. But Lending Stream 
said that loan 1 may have possibly have been unaffordable for Mr P and it made an offer to 
refund the interest and charges hed paid on this loan.
Mr P didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ps complaint. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say that it 
was unfair for Lending Stream to have provided loans 2 through to 5. But our adjudicator 
thought that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mr P and he set out what he 
felt Lending Stream should do to put things right for Mr P  which went beyond the steps 
Lending Stream had offered to settle the complaint.  
Lending Stream has acknowledged receipt of our adjudicators view but it hasnt responded 
to say whether it agrees or not with the steps our adjudicator has suggested it should take to 
put things right  or taken any other action. So as the complaint hasnt yet been settled, it 
comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.Lending Stream told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr P. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal expenditure and carried out checks on his credit file. 
Looking at loan 1, like the adjudicator, I dont think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
have provided this loan. The information it seems Lending Stream recorded for Mr P shows 
that his take home pay wasnt enough for Mr P to be able to afford the loan repayments 
along with his other monthly expenses. As Lending Stream seems to accept this loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr P, I dont think I need to say any more about it.  
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 1.    
And I agree with what our adjudicator has said about the other loans. By loan 2, although his 
take home pay was still the same, thered been some changes in the monthly spending 
Lending Stream had recorded for Mr P so this loan looked affordable for him  it looked like 
he had enough money left out of his pay each month to be able to make the repayments on 
the loan on top of his other monthly outgoings. Mr P had been borrowing from Lending 
Stream for just a few months, hed repaid loan 1 early and there had been a gap of around 
three months after paying loan 1 before Mr P applied for loan 2. So, although Ive taken into 
account that Mr P borrowed a substantially bigger amount when he took out loan 2, on 
balance, I dont think there was anything to indicate that Mr P wouldnt be able to repay 
loan 2 in a sustainable way.
To my mind, the gap of almost six months between loans 2 and 3 means that Lending 
Stream was reasonably entitled to think that Mr P mightve put his finances in order during 
this period. This meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr P applied for loan 3, 
he was effectively starting over. So it was fair for Lending Stream to treat this as a new 
chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests accordingly.
I think that when Lending Stream gave Mr P loans 3, 4 and 5, it was entitled to rely on the 
information it had gathered about his circumstances. Looking at what it appears Mr P had 
told the lender and the information Lending Stream recorded about his financial situation, 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Lending Stream shouldve done more than it did 
by way of checks before lending to Mr P  or that the information it could see shouldve led 
it to decline any of these loan requests. Although Mr P later on had problems paying 
loans 4 and 5, I dont think Lending Stream could reasonably have foreseen this at the 
time it provided these loans.  
 
Considering everything, given the repayment amounts for loans 3, 4 and 5, what was 
apparent about Mr Ps circumstances at the time and his history with the lender when he 
applied for these loans, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to 
ask Mr P for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Mr P provided or the information Lending Stream 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying 
what Mr P said about his finances. 
So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 1 only. 
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then Lending Stream 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything Lending Stream has already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) if there is still any outstanding balance on loan 4 and/or loan 5, then the amounts 
calculated in A and B should be used to repay any balances remaining on outstanding 
loans and any principal Lending Stream may have already written-off. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr P. However if there is still an outstanding 
balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. 
Lending Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal already written-
off.
D) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ps complaint and Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman