DRN-3031501
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Miss L says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold PPI.
I know that when PPI was sold to Miss L, BOS was trading as Sainsburys Bank Drive. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to BOS for the rest of this decision  thats because BOS 
is the business responsible for answering this complaint. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but he thought BOSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss L paid was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
materially new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments 
theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BOS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Miss L at the same time as she made an online 
application for her credit card. I think shed have been able to complete that application in 
her own time and at her own pace. Ive had the benefit of seeing the print out of Miss Ls 
application. And Ive also seen a copy of the signed credit agreement. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether BOS made it clear the PPI was optional 
and Miss L didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see that the online summary 
sent to Miss L says she had requested PPI. And she then had to tick and then sign the 
credit agreement to confirm that selection again. There was an equally prominent box to tick 
and sign if she didnt want cover. Looking at everything in front of me, I think it would have 
been clear to Miss L if she didnt want PPI, she could have just signed to say she didnt want 
it. 
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information 
about the cover so she could decide if it was a good fit for her needs. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Miss Ls credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was off sick or out of work up to a 
maximum of 12 months. Her balance would have also been cleared in the unfortunate event 
of her death or if she developed a critical illness. 
I understand Miss L wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay from her employer. And she 
didnt have any other means with which to repay her credit card if she was out of work. On 
that basis, I can see how the PPI could have been helpful to her if she was unwell or if she 
lost her job. 
Im aware that Miss L had a couple of separate musculoskeletal injuries - in 1994 and 
another in 2000. However, it appears that once those injuries healed, they didnt cause her 
to have any ongoing difficulties. So it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of 
the exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything unusual about Miss Ls 
employment that would have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she 
needed to. I cant say she was affected by any of the significant exclusions on or limits to the 
cover. 
Those representing Miss L made some detailed submissions as they thought that back and 
mental health problems were excluded from the cover. I accept there were some additional 
evidential requirements if Miss L wanted to claim for either of those conditions. But I dont 
think shed have reasonably thought shed be able to make a claim without providing some 
supportive medical evidence. I dont think these limitations on the cover would have put Miss 
L off buying it. 
Overall, I dont think more or better information about the cover would have caused her to 
act differently. The policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was 
getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ls representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BOS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
failure to disclose resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BOS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BOSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BOS didnt tell Miss L about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So I have taken into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to 
disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business 
expected commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the 
policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between BOS and Miss L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because BOS didnt disclose the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
With all of this in mind, I dont think BOS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss 
L because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider, in all the circumstances, what amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Ls representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss L should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BOS failed to tell Miss L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued that 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Miss L wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. The representative 
submitted that Miss L should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about 
whether the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI 
policy had the commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to 
remedy the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does 
not follow that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums 
paid or conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had 
the commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules 
and guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms 
handling PPI complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission 
and any remedy caused by it should be considered at step 2.
I have considered the relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, my role 
as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation to remedy the 
unfairness caused by BOS not disclosing the high level of commission to Miss L before the 
policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the 
level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, 
in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; 
I am not, as Miss Ls representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BOSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons 
Ive given above. I think it was fair for BOS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Miss L paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. So I am satisfied that BOSs offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Ls complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Miss L an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman