DRN-4232961
Complaint
Mrs T has complained about a loan Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) provided to her. She 
says that the loan was unaffordable and irresponsibly lent.
Background
Vanquis provided Mrs T with a loan for £3,000.00 in November 2019. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £125. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs T and Vanquis had told us. And he thought that 
Vanquis hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mrs Ts complaint be upheld. 
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint.
Vanquis needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Vanquis needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs T 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Vanquis provided Mrs T with a first and only loan for £3,000.00 in November 2019, although 
I do accept that Mrs T did have a Vanquis credit card at the time. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 instalments of just under £125. Vanquis says it agreed to Mrs Ts application 
after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It 
says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out together with 
her repayment record on her credit card and all of this information showed Mrs T could 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs T has said 
she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs T and Vanquis have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Vanquis has provided the output of Mrs Ts application. 
Vanquis searches appear to show that Mrs T had had historic difficulties with credit  there 
were historic defaults. But Mrs T only had three active credit commitments at the time of this 
application and all of them (including Mrs Ts Vanquis credit card) were up to date. Crucially, 
according to the credit searches, Mrs Ts unsecured debt total at the time of the application 
was low in comparison to her income too. 
I accept that Mrs Ts actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Vanquis obtained. Furthermore, its clear to see 
that her financial position took a turn for the worse from around 2020 onwards. But I dont 
think that Vanquis could have anticipated that this would happen and therefore I cant 
reasonably say that it ought to have accounted for this.
Equally Vanquis wasnt providing Mrs T with a mortgage. It was providing a loan for a 
relatively low amount and which had low monthly payments. Its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into anything further. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Vanquis did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mrs T - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
Ive also considered what Mrs T has said about outcomes shes received on other cases 
shes referred to us. While I agree consistency is important each case we receive is 
considered on its individual facts and circumstances. And Im not bound by the outcomes 
reached by other casehandlers on different cases with different facts. 
Ultimately, Im required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own independent  
conclusion on the matter. That said and with a view to providing some clarity and 
reassurance to Mrs T, it might help for me to explain that there is a key difference between 
this complaint and the ones Mrs T has referred to. 
This key difference is that the casehandlers in the other cases (including Mrs Ts credit card 
one) thought that the lenders concerned hadnt carried out proportionate checks. Its also 
worth noting the lending decisions concerning the credit card complaint took place much 
earlier than this one. 
And, in this particular complaint, bearing in mind the amount borrowed, the cost of the credit, 
the amount of the monthly payment, what Mrs T declared about her income and expenditure 
and what Vanquis saw on its checks, I think that that the checks carried out in this particular 
case were proportionate  although I accept that Mrs T is unlikely to agree with this.  
So while Im not required to replicate the outcomes reached by casehandlers, nonetheless I 
dont consider that my answer here is incompatible or inconsistent with the cases Mrs T has 
referred to, notwithstanding the differing outcomes.    
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Vanquis treated Mrs T unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs T  particularly given what shes said in 
light of other complaints being upheld. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision on this case and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman