DRN-3516901
The complaint
Mr A complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
some transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 11 December 2020, Mr A rang Halifax. He said hed just noticed that there had been 
eight transactions between 12 November 2018 and 28 May 2019, which he hadnt 
authorised. Mr A also complained about the length of time it had taken to get through to 
Halifax, saying hed waited two hours.
Halifax refused to refund Mr A. It said that as the disputed payments had taken place more 
than 13 months earlier, it couldnt investigate. It paid Mr A £50 compensation for the long 
wait to get through by phone.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said the bank had a duty to keep 
customers money safe. He also said that as he was a student and there was a global 
pandemic, he needed the money back as soon as possible. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She explained that there are regulations 
about disputed transactions, and these say that the customer must notify the bank as soon 
as they become aware  and in any case not later than 13 months after the debit. The last of 
Mr As disputed transactions had taken place on 28 May 2019, and he hadnt notified Halifax 
until 11 December 2020, which was more than 13 months. So Halifax was entitled to refused 
to investigate.
The adjudicator also pointed out that Mr A had made a separate fraud claim in December 
2019, so she couldnt see any reason why Mr A couldnt have reported these at the time.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the reason he didnt 
report the transactions earlier was because he hadnt seen them, and hed reported them the 
second he saw them. He said Halifaxs security measures werent adequate, and it hadnt 
notified him of transactions as it usually did. He said Halifax had accepted it had provided 
him with inadequate services so it should be an easy decision to make.
Mr A also said Halifax had never paid the £50 compensation which it said in its final 
response letter that it had paid him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say
There are regulations which govern disputed payments. For those taking place between 
November 2018 and May 2019, these are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Ive 
quoted Regulation 74 below, and Ive highlighted the relevant part: 
74.(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 76, 91, 92, 93 or 
94 (liability for unauthorised transactions, non-execution or defective or late execution of 
transactions, or charges and interest), only if it notifies the payment service provider 
without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, on 
becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction.
Mr As complaint to Halifax
Mr A reported the eight transactions, which were all to the same payee and took place 
between 12 November 2018 and 28 May 2019, on 11 December 2020. Even for the last one, 
thats significantly more than 13 months after they took place. So the Regulations mean that 
Mr A wasnt entitled to any redress.
Mr A said hed only just noticed them. But as can be seen from the regulations Ive quoted 
above, that isnt listed as a reason for extending the deadline.   
And in any case, Mr As statements show that he was using the account on an almost daily 
basis. Hed also have had access to statements which he could have checked  and if they 
didnt arrive, he could have chased for them. The disputed payments were also for £200 to 
£250 each, so they were for relatively large amounts compared to his other spend. So theyd 
have been noticeable. And Mr A had raised a different fraud claim in December 2019, which 
indicates he was aware of his balance and his transactions at that time. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr A couldnt have known about these transactions within 13 months of them 
happening. It was his responsibility to check his account and to raise any dispute within that 
period.
Looking at Mr As other points, banks arent required to notify customers in advance of every 
transaction as it goes through. Halifaxs final response letter also doesnt say, as Mr A 
claims, that it had accepted it had provided him with inadequate services. Mr A complained 
that hed had to wait two hours to get through, and Halifax paid him £50 compensation. 
Phone delays during the pandemic period, when many businesses of all types struggled to 
provide their normal phone service, isnt the same thing as providing inadequate service in 
relation to payments. I consider £50 compensation was more than fair in the circumstances.
Finally, Mr A also said Halifax had never paid the £50 compensation which it said in its final 
response letter that it had paid him. Ive seen his bank statement which shows this was paid 
to him on 20 January 2021, the same day as the final response letter.
So I do not uphold this complaint, because Mr A didnt report the disputed transactions within 
13 months, so Halifax wasnt required to investigate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman