DRN-3695069
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) will not reverse a money transfer 
she completed to a third-party. 
What happened
Mrs A said that she needed a third-party (family member) to assist her in making payments 
for her elderly mothers care who is in another country, so she transferred approximately 
£2,310 to his Barclays bank account in July 2022. But she said that her family member has 
been unbale to access the money sent, as the account where the money has been 
transferred to has been blocked. So, she requested for Barclays to reverse the transfer. She 
said initially she was told that the bank would reverse the transfer if her family member calls 
them to authorise this. But she said that when her family member called Barclays, they told 
him that they were unable to reverse the transfer and that the only option would be for them 
to close his locked account and transfer all the funds (in that account) to a nominated 
account. So, she said that when her family member contacted Barclays with the details of 
the nominated account, they still didnt transfer the money.
Mrs A would like Barclays to reverse the transfer as there is no fault or failure on her part or 
her family members as she said that he was unaware that his account was frozen at the 
time the transfer was made. She said that Barclays shouldnt have allowed a transaction to 
go through to a frozen account or one that becomes frozen because of the transfer in 
question. She said that this is very distressing for her and causing her financial loss. She 
said that part of the money transferred was also intended to be used towards generating 
income from her holiday rental flat, following decoration which has been now stalled, causing 
her to lose out on the potential revenue.
As Mrs A was unhappy with this, so she referred her complaint to our service.  
Barclays have told our service that the transfer was made online and the payment was sent 
to a valid account that was open at the time of the transfer, and that the payment was 
accepted in the beneficiarys account. They also said that, as Mrs A doesn't hold third-party 
access or power of attorney over the family member's account, they are unable to give 
further information to her. They also told our service that they didn't uphold Mrs As 
complaint as there was no bank error and the transfer was made as per Mrs As instructions.
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays have acted unfairly.  
Mrs A disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
There are limited circumstances which could allow me to direct Barclays to take action in this 
particular case; one such circumstance would be if there was a bank error. In this case, 
Mrs A authorised Barclays to make this transfer to a family member, and they followed her 
instructions. So, Ive not been given any evidence that would show that Barclays made a 
mistake when they transferred the funds to the family member, as they were only following 
exact instructions given by Mrs A when she requested the transfer.
I know Mrs A would like Barclays to reverse the money transfer she authorised, because she 
thinks that Barclays were wrong to make the payment if blocking of the account was 
imminent, or subsequently triggered by the payment that she made as an innocent party. But 
Barclays have confirmed to our service that the payment was successful; whereby the 
payment was received in the family members account which at the time of the transfer was 
valid and open. And, Ive not seen any evidence that would indicate to Barclays that, at the 
time, the transaction was unusual or out of character in any way. As such, I cant say that 
Barclays have done anything wrong by allowing the transaction to go through.   
Mrs A said that it is unfair that Barclays are able to hide behind a third-party account to 
absolve themselves of the injustice of her situation. But, Ive considered that Barclays did try 
to help her by explaining the steps her family member would need to take in order to gain 
access to the funds. And, unfortunately, as Mrs A doesn't have power of attorney for the 
family member, and she doesnt hold third-party access to her family members account, 
Barclays are unable to give further information to her, and she is not authorised to direct 
Barclays to take certain actions on that account. 
Overall, I appreciate the difficulties that Mrs A is experiencing, but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mrs A has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman