DRN-2210122
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Pinnacle Insurance Plcs decision as to when he became eligible 
for benefit after it accepted his claim under his income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A held an income protection insurance policy with Pinnacle. The policy would pay a 
monthly benefit for up to twelve months in the event that Mr A was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. The benefit would become payable, backdated to the first day of 
incapacity, once Mr A had been incapacitated for 30 days. The policy excluded cover for 
absence due to mental health conditions unless the policyholder had either been certified as 
incapacitated by a suitably qualified consultant or had been referred to an appropriate 
medical specialist by their doctor.
In August 2019, Mr A stopped working due to stress and anxiety.  His GP certified him as 
unfit to work and, in November 2019, referred him to a specialist. 
In March 2020, while still off work, Mr A made a claim under the policy.
Pinnacle accepted the claim and agreed to backdate benefit payments to the date that his 
GP referred Mr A to a specialist.
Mr A complained to Pinnacle. He considered his benefit should be backdated to the first day 
of his incapacity.
Pinnacle issued a final response letter not upholding Mr As complaint. It said that under the 
terms of the policy Mr As claim was excluded until he was referred.
Mr A considered this was not clear from the policy wording. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that the 
policy did not make clear that no benefit would be payable for the period before a specialist 
referral was made. She considered that Pinnacle should pay backdated benefit to the first 
day of Mr As certified incapacity, plus interest. She further thought it should pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Pinnacle didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that it had interpreted the policy 
terms correctly and had treated Mr A fairly.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A had back to day one cover, which the policy describes as follows: 
If after the start date and before the end date an accident or sickness prevents you 
from working for longer than the wait period, we will pay:
(i) the monthly benefit at the end of the wait period; and
(ii) thereafter, 1/30th of the monthly benefit for each continuous day you are 
unable to work.
The monthly benefit will be paid to you in arrears provided you meet the terms and 
conditions of this policy
Under the heading of Accident and sickness exclusions, the policy states:
We will not pay any accident and sickness benefit if your accident or sickness 
results from or as a consequence of the following:
 any condition of a mental or nervous origin including stress, anxiety and 
depression (unless a suitably qualified consultant certifies that the condition prevents 
you from working, or you have been referred to, and receive ongoing treatment from 
an appropriate medical specialist on the recommendation of your doctor)
This kind of exclusion is fairly common in this type of insurance policy. I understand that 
Pinnacle doesnt want to accept claims for incapacity due to psychological conditions unless 
the policyholders illness is significant. That is fair enough; it is entitled to decide what risks it 
wants to ensure.
However, someone may become incapacitated by their mental health condition and not be 
referred to a specialist until a later date, once it has become apparent that other treatment 
hasnt worked. This appears to be what happened in the case of Mr A. I consider that the 
policy is unclear as to how, in this situation, the period of incapacity preceding the referral 
should be treated. In the absence of anything clear to the contrary, I consider that it was 
therefore reasonable for Mr A to assume that once the referral had taken place, his entire 
period of incapacity was rendered eligible for benefit. If Pinnacle didnt intend for this to 
happen, I consider it should have worded the policy differently.
I therefore consider that Pinnacle should have backdated Mr As claim to 13 August 2019, 
which was the first day that his GP certified him as unfit to work. and that it should add 
interest to any outstanding benefit. I further consider that Pinnacle should pay Mr A £100 
compensation for any inconvenience and distress caused to him.
With regard to the money owed to Mr A, I recognise that he did not submit his claim form 
until 11 March 2020, so Pinnacle could not have paid backdated benefit before this date. 
I further recognise that after accepting his claim, Pinnacle agreed to backdate benefit to 
12 November 2019 (which was the date the GP made the referral rather than until the later 
date that Mr A began to receive treatment from the specialist). I further understand that 
Pinnacle paid at least ten months of benefit to Mr A which means he has received benefit 
beyond 12 August 2020 which is when his claim would have ended had Pinnacle started 
paying benefit at the correct time. Pinnacle may take into account these surplus payments 
when it calculates the money, including interest, which is owed to Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to pay Mr A benefit for the period between 13 August 2019 
and 12 November 2019 and to add interest to this at the annual simple rate of 8%, 
calculated from 11 March 2020 until each date that Mr A received payment of surplus benefit (given the new start date of the claim) or the date of settlement.* For the avoidance of doubt, 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc doesnt need to pay Mr A more than twelve months benefit in total.
I further require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to pay Mr A £100 compensation.
* If Pinnacle considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman