DRN-3459384
The complaint
Mr K complains about a delay in returning funds he held with State Bank of India (UK) 
Limited (SBI). Hes also unhappy with the general service received and the movement of a 
locker facility from one branch to a different branch.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr K and SBI. I wont repeat in detail 
what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons 
for reaching the outcome I have.
In June 2021, Mr K has said he needed urgent access to funds held with SBI and they told 
him that the request would have to be approved by a manager, but that he would receive the 
funds in a few days. Mr K says he needed access to the funds because of a family medical 
emergency. 
Mr K says he tried to contact SBI on a number of occasions and the service received was 
poor. The funds were released to Mr K around 28 June 2021, but due to the delay Mr Ks 
family had arranged alternative financial means to cover the medical costs.
Mr K was also unhappy that he says he never received prior notice about the movement of a 
security locker from one branch to a different branch. He believes this to be further poor 
service and says the contents couldve been damaged in transit and this presented a 
security risk. SBI have said prior notice was sent to Mr K.
Unhappy, Mr K raised a complaint with SBI and they didnt uphold it. He then referred his 
complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the  
complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. As Mr K didnt accept, the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the outcome of this complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I 
wont comment on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. 
However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at 
my decision.
The return of Mr Ks deposit and the overall service received 
SBI referred to the following terms as justification for not immediately releasing funds back to 
Mr K when requested: 
'Deposits cannot be withdrawn until they mature. In exceptional situations, an early 
withdrawal request may be considered in line with the bank's internal policy. This 
policy is subject to change and the bank will confirm the current terms for early 
withdrawals at the time of your request. Early withdrawal requests are accepted at 
bank's discretion and are subject to a penalty and may result in no interest being 
paid.'
The nature of a deposit account like this means there is usually a reward when the deposit 
reaches maturity and often penalties for early withdrawal. This is different other types of 
accounts (such as current accounts) where immediate access is available to funds.
When Mr K provided his reasons for needing early access to the funds, SBI needed to 
review the request. Im satisfied that SBI acted in line with the relevant terms when doing so 
and fairly considered and ultimately approved the request.
Mr K says he was given false timescales about when his request would be considered and 
the funds returned to him. Even in a scenario where he wasnt provided with factually 
accurate information, Im satisfied that the delays werent exceptional to the extent that 
compensation is appropriate here. 
Ive also considered the overall service received. Around this time there were known issues 
with SBIs phone lines which meant calls werent being diverted to their contact centre. Ive 
also kept in mind that these events took place whilst the COVID-19 pandemic was ongoing 
and it was still presenting (in Jun 2021) challenges for financial businesses as they tried to 
offer their key services to those customers that needed to access them whilst safeguarding 
all customers and their employees. 
Ive noted that SBI made attempts to update Mr K and left a voicemail on 29 June 2021 and 
followed up by email. Im also satisfied that the option of directly calling the contact centre 
was still available to Mr K. Overall, although the service received may have fallen below 
Mr Ks expectations, I dont find it poor to the extent that compensation would be fair, 
reasonable or appropriate.
I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
The movement of Mr Ks security locker
SBI have provided supporting evidence that prior notification was sent to Mr Ks address 
about the changing locker arrangements in December 2020 and June 2021. Although Ive 
not seen supporting evidence (such as correspondence returned to the sender), for balance 
Ive also considered what impact there has been on Mr K.
I acknowledge Mr Ks personal circumstances may have meant the changing locker 
arrangements presented an inconvenience. But its not within my remit to punish a business 
for what street parking arrangements are available at a particular location and note in their 
letter they asked Mr K to let them know if another branch would be more convenient for him. 
Im also not persuaded by Mr Ks argument that the locker being moved has caused him a 
loss. I say this because no evidence has been provided that the contents of the locker were 
damaged in transit and I note Mr Ks wife has confirmed no items were damaged or no loss 
occurred in her statement.
I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.My decision will disappoint Mr K, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve this dispute between him and SBI.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman