DRN-3554579
The complaint
Mr B complains that Man Fund Management UK Limited wont act on his instruction to 
withdraw money from his account.
What happened
Mr B opened his account more than 20 years ago. In December 2020, when he received his 
statement from Man Fund Management, he received a letter saying it needed to confirm his 
identity and source of funds. He said no other business has asked him to provide this 
information and he now just wants to withdraw his money and close the account. Hes 
provided Man Fund Management with a council tax bill, and other utility bills, and doesnt 
think it should also need to see photo identification, or to know his date of birth. He says he 
passed Man Fund Managements security questions when he phoned it and his bank 
account details havent changed.
Man Fund Management says it needs additional information so that it can re-verify Mr Bs 
identity in line with its anti-money laundering obligations. It says it has been able to verify 
Mr Bs address from the council tax bill he supplied, but it still needs information to verify his 
identity.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Man 
Fund Management had acted fairly and in line with industry best practice, including offering 
Mr B an alternative to providing photo identification.
Mr B didnt agree and said, in summary that:
Hes provided four different documents which show his name and the council tax bill hes 
provided shows hes living at that address and is a single occupier.
Man Fund Management has satisfied itself that it is speaking to the genuine individual on 
the phone.
Man Fund Management seems to be concerned that, if it issues a cheque, it wont be 
paid into Mr Bs account. But hes happy for it to make payment directly into his account.
He set out some questions about the documents hes provided, and the checks Man 
Fund Management could do, and asked why these werent sufficient evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B clearly has strong feelings about this matter, and I understand that. Hes provided 
detailed submissions and has raised a significant number of points and asked me to answer 
some specific questions. I have fully considered everything he has told us, but I am not 
going to respond to every point one of the parties has made or to answer every question 
raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having considered everything carefully, Im satisfied that Man Fund Management hasnt 
done anything wrong here. As our investigator explained, Mr B has held the account for 
many years and, as requirements change over time, its not unreasonable to expect 
businesses to request additional information to ensure they remain compliant with various 
regulations. I find its reasonable that Man Fund Management needs to satisfy itself that it is 
dealing with the genuine owner of the account, and that it is being funded by an account in 
the genuine owners name. Man Fund Management needs to ensure it is not in breach of the 
FCA rules or anti-money laundering regulations, so I find it is entitled to ask for appropriate 
evidence.
Its not my role to instruct Man Fund Management what it should require, or whether it 
should make an exception in Mr Bs case. Im satisfied that its not acting unreasonably in 
asking for a photo identification from Mr B. I also find it treated Mr B fairly when he didnt 
provide the requested identification document, by saying it could instead carry out an 
electronic verification check. Unfortunately it hasnt been able to do so because Mr B hasnt 
given it his date of birth.
Mr B says that other businesses havent asked for this type of information. That may be so, 
possibly because those businesses have enough information in their records to fulfil their 
anti-money laundering responsibilities. But I can only look at what Man Fund Management 
has, or hasnt, done wrong.
I do understand Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter and why hes suggesting that hes 
already provided enough information for Man Fund Management to be satisfied its dealing 
with the right person. Im sorry, but its not for Mr B, or for me, to decide what information 
should satisfy Man Fund Management. Thats a decision for Man Fund Management to 
make, taking into account its regulatory obligations. I find Man Fund Management set out 
reasonably clearly what documentation it would accept from Mr B. It then made an 
adjustment  by saying it could undertake an electronic check when Mr B didnt provide 
photo identification. So, overall, I dont find Man Fund Management has treated Mr B 
unreasonably or unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman