DRN-3698488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under their 
home insurance policy for damage to an underground pipe.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr and Mrs P got in touch with Aviva after a blockage in a waste pipe flooded their 
kitchen and caused damage.
Aviva said the damage to the pipe wasnt covered by the policy. It was made of a 
material known as pitch fibre which had collapsed and caused the blockage. Aviva 
said this happened gradually and was the result of faulty materials  neither of which 
is covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs P had to restore flow to the pipe, so they paid to have it replaced. They 
complained that Aviva wouldnt reimburse them for it. They said they had no way of 
knowing what material the pipe was made of  and that a problem only became 
apparent when it collapsed. And they thought these pipes had met relevant 
standards at the time they were installed.
Aviva didnt change its position. It said there hadnt been a one off event to cause the 
damage, it was general degradation and delamination over time.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied it 
would be fair for Aviva to rely on the policy terms it had raised.
Mr and Mrs P agreed but Aviva didnt. It reiterated the points made earlier.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the claim for putting right the damage resulting from the leak has been 
dealt with separately. It hasnt formed part of this complaint, so I havent considered it 
 my focus is solely on the claim for the pipe.
Mr and Mrs P have an Essential Plus home insurance policy with Aviva. Amongst 
other things, it covers accidental damage to services, including drain pipes.
The policy defines accidental damage to mean damage caused suddenly and 
unexpectedly by an outside force. This is the only part of the policy that could 
provide cover to the pipe.
Aviva says the pipe damage didnt meet the definition of accidental damage because 
it was gradual in nature. It has also raised two policy terms. They say they dont 
cover gradually occurring damage or damage caused by faulty materials.
Mr and Mrs P have suggested the damage was initially declined because the pipe 
was made of pitch fibre. They point out theres no policy term relating to the material 
specifically. I agree the policy doesnt contain that kind of specific policy term. By the 
time Aviva answered the complaint, it wasnt seeking to rely on such a term, so I 
dont think this point needs to be considered further.
Ive considered how the damage was caused  and what impact that has on the 
policy terms noted.
Avivas drainage report says the pitch fibre pipe had become severely deformed over 
time. This is a typical description of pitch fibre damage which in my experience is 
usually brought about gradually by the inherent flaws of the material degrading over 
time. 
Whilst the damage may have appeared sudden to Mr and Mrs P, pitch fibre pipes 
tend to deteriorate gradually, until theyre so deformed they collapse. So the damage 
is rarely caused suddenly  its a gradual process.
I havent seen any expert opinion to suggest anything different happened here or that 
an outside force suddenly intervened to cause a problem. Mr and Mrs P say the 
damage may have been caused by the delivery of skips and/or the installation of 
broadband cables nearby. Whilst I cant rule out that possibility, I dont have any 
evidence to show thats likely what caused the damage here.
I think its accepted the damage was unexpected. But the evidence doesnt show it 
was also caused suddenly and by an outside force  as required by the policy.
Because of this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim. Its 
policy simply doesnt cover this kind of gradual damage. As a result, theres no need 
for me to go on to consider the policy term about faulty materials in detail. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs P but I dont intend to require Aviva to 
do anything further in relation to the pipe damage claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs P responded with comments for me to consider. Ill summarise the main points:
The policy wasnt fit for purpose as it doesnt cover damage to pitch fibre pipes. But it 
doesnt mention this, so it doesnt allow a policyholder to make an informed choice.Its not fair or reasonable to expect policyholders to be aware of damage happening 
to underground pipes, particularly when the damage is unpredictable.
They were never sent a copy of the drainage report and nor was it discussed with 
them. So theyve not had the opportunity to challenge the findings or take their own 
expert advice.
The drainage technician said the pipe had collapsed due to an external pressure or 
object and the pipe would need excavating to confirm that.
The drainage report doesnt evidence the damage to the pipe and could just be an 
assumption based on the type of material involved.
Avivas policy covers accidental damage to drainage pipes, which means damage caused 
suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force. This is consistent with most home insurance 
policies on the market. In my experience its very rare for a home policy to cover gradual 
deterioration  of drains or anything else. I dont think not covering this kind of damage 
makes Avivas policy unfit for purpose as its typical of the cover usually offered for drains.
The policy doesnt specifically exclude damage to pitch fibre pipes. If a pipe made from that 
material was accidentally damaged, it would be covered (subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy). So there would be no reason for Aviva to say it doesnt cover 
damage to pitch fibre pipes at the point of sale.
Mr and Mrs P have pointed to a section of our website which describes circumstances in 
which we may find it unfair for an insurer to rely on a policy term which excludes gradual 
damage. Whilst Aviva initially mentioned such a policy term, when answering Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint it made a different point. It said it didnt think there had been a one off insured 
event. The guidance on our website applies to policy exclusions raised when the damage 
has been caused by an insured event. Here, Aviva is saying there wasnt an insured event 
because the definition of accidental damage hasnt been met. Ive agreed with that. So the 
guidance isnt relevant in this case.
I recognise it can be disappointing for policyholders to have claims declined, particularly if 
they feel there was nothing they could reasonably have done to prevent the problem from 
happening. But no home insurance policy will cover everything unavoidable or unpredictable 
that may cause a problem. Like most policies, Avivas covers damage caused in a specific 
set of ways (known as insured events). Damage caused accidentally is one such insured 
event. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied the damage was 
caused in this way. That means the damage simply isnt covered by the policy. In these 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair for me to require Aviva to deal with the claim.
I can see Mr and Mrs P asked for a copy of the drainage report when they submitted their 
complaint. But I havent seen anything to suggest Aviva sent it to them. Thats unhelpful of 
Aviva as its meant Mr and Mrs P didnt know exactly what the report found until it was 
shared with them very recently.
However, this didnt prevent them from taking their own expert advice. They were entitled to 
do this at any time. Access to Avivas report wasnt required for another expert to give their 
own view on the cause of damage. So I dont think Mr and Mrs P were prevented from taking 
advice or challenging Avivas findings. They remain entitled to take advice and share it with 
Aviva. If they do that, Aviva should consider anything provided.I havent seen any evidence to show the drainage technician  or any other expert  has 
identified damage other than that described in the report. Nor have I seen any 
recommendations for further investigation by Aviva.
The drainage report says a CCTV survey was carried out. The report has been prepared by 
a professional company and Ive seen no evidence to suggest any of its findings are 
incorrect. So Im satisfied the comments in the report are likely to be based on what was 
seen during that survey and the professionals opinion.
Overall, having taken into account all the points raised, I remain satisfied it was fair for Aviva 
to decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman