DRN-3657707
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim they
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D booked a holiday in the UK in January 2020  they were due to travel in April
2020. They had an annual insurance policy which was taken out in July 2019.
In March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global
pandemic and later that month the UK government imposed wide ranging restrictions on
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. The restrictions remained in place at the
time of Mr and Mrs Ds planned holiday, so they werent able to go.
The claimed on their policy for the cost of their accommodation, which was approximately
£5500. URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy. Mr
and Mrs D complained but URV maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr
and Mrs D complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought
there was no cover for the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs D found themselves under
the policy. So, he didnt think it was unreasonable for URV to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary,
they said that their claim falls within the policy terms and URV is hiding behind the small print
to decline the claim.
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ds complaint. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions say:
SECTION A  CANCELLATION OR CURTAILMENT
What is covered:
We will indemnify You up to the amount stated in the Schedule of Cover for:-
(a) unused charges associated with Your Trip that are not refundable 
and which were incurred before Your departure date if You have to 
cancel Your Trip, or
(b) the extra cost of a one way airfare of a standard no greater than the 
class of journey on the Outward Journey or the applicable fee charged 
by the airline to change Your scheduled return date, and the unused 
non- refundable prepaid accommodation costs and other land 
arrangements following Curtailment of Your Trip as a result of any of 
the circumstances detailed below:
1. Your death, accidental bodily injury or illness, or that of a Close 
Relative or a friend with whom You have arranged to travel or stay, or 
of a Close Business Associate.
2. You or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay 
being subject to compulsory quarantine or being summoned for Jury 
Service or as a witness in a Court of Law or for Military Service during 
the Period of Insurance.
3. Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current 
redundancy payment legislation) and that of any person with whom 
You intend to travel provided that such notice of redundancy is 
advised to Us within 14 days of its announcement.
4. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or 
flood, or Your presence being required by the police following burglary 
at such private dwelling occurring at any time after We have accepted 
this Insurance.
5. Cancellation or interruption of scheduled public transport 
consequent upon Hijack occurring during the period of the Trip.
6. Reasonable additional travelling expenses incurred by You in returning 
to Your home address in the United Kingdom, Channel Isles/Isle of 
Man, where such return is urgently necessitated by the death, serious 
illness or severe injury of Your Close Relative or a Close Business 
Associate provided that such Close Relative or Close Business 
Associate is resident in the United Kingdom, Channel Isles, Isle of 
Man.
URV says that there is only cover under the policy for cancelling a trip for the reasons 
set out in points one to six.
Mr and Mrs D argue that the policy covers them under clause (a) as they had to 
cancel their holiday and werent able to get a refund from the provider.
Im intending to uphold this complaint because I think the way the policy is worded 
isnt very clear. I say that because:
I dont think its clear that clause (a) is subject to the six points outlined 
under clause (b).
The way the term is structured does indicate its most likely that Mr and 
Mrs D would be covered if they had to cancel.
Theres no clear link made in clause (a) with the six situations set out 
underneath clause (b). Clause (b) refers specifically to the six 
situations because it says there is cover following Curtailment of Your 
Trip as a result of any of the circumstances detailed below. Clause (a) 
doesnt make any reference to being subject to those circumstances. That may have been what URV intended, but its not what the contract 
of insurance says.
I think that the way the term is structured means its unclear that 
the cancellation section only applies in the scenarios set out within 
the six circumstances set out under clause (b).
I can therefore see why Mr and Mrs D thought they were covered 
because they cancelled their trip and werent able to get a refund. 
Theres no requirement in the policy for cancellation to be linked to the 
six circumstances set out under clause (b).
I think theres ambiguity in the policy wording and the wording should be 
interpreted in Mr and Mrs Ds favour. That means that URV should 
reassess the claim, treating it as if it is covered by subsection (a) of the 
cancellation policy.
Putting things right
URV should put things right by reassessing the claim, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and applying any relevant policy limits or excess payments.
URV should also pay Mr and Mrs D 8% simple interest on the amount of the final 
claim settlement from the date that the claim was initially rejected to the date that it 
is finally settled.
If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a tax deduction certificate so they can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
URV didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs D accepted my findings. So, I 
now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further information or comments. So, theres no reason for 
me to reach a different conclusion to the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
URV should put things right by reassessing the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms 
and applying any relevant policy limits or excess payments.
URV should also pay Mr and Mrs D 8% simple interest on the amount of the final claim 
settlement from the date that the claim was initially rejected to the date that it is finally 
settled.If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
tax deduction certificate so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman