DRN-2919862
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was unable to uphold this complaint on 1 
June 2021. 
Mr S purchased a business coaching service and entered into a fixed sum loan agreement. 
Several months after entering into the agreement Mr S asked to cancel it. He said the course 
had been mis-sold to him because it wasnt suitable for him and because he hadnt received 
the services he was promised.
I explained that in order to uphold Mr Ss complaint I would need to be satisfied that there 
had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. I explained that, having looked at the 
questions Mr S had answered on the application form for the course, as well as taking into 
account the induration shown on the supplier website, I wasnt persuaded that a 
misrepresentation had been made. I said that even if the salesperson had said to Mr S that it 
didnt matter if he didnt have a business idea, this didnt make a difference to my decision as 
I was satisfied, based on the information Id seen, that Mr S did have a business idea. 
I considered Mr Ss complaint that hed been pressured into signing for the course but 
concluded that because there was a right to withdraw under the agreement, Mr S could have 
exercised this right. I also noted that it wasnt until the agreement had been running for over 
10 months (during which time Mr S had accessed the course materials) that he complained 
that hed been pressured into entering into the agreement, and that this behaviour wasnt 
consistent with someone who had been pressured into entering into the agreement. 
I concluded that there hadnt been a breach of contract because on the available evidence, 
the supplier had provided the services and materials it said it would, and Mr S had accessed 
these.  
Mr S didnt reply to my provisional decision. Shawbrook replied and said it agreed with my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S hasnt replied to my provisional decision and Shawbrook has said that it agrees with it. 
So, I see no reasons to reach different conclusions to the ones I reached in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman