DRN-2437830
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd failed to inform her of the paperwork she 
needed to sell her investments and led her to believe her investments would be sold before 
the end of the tax year.
What happened
Mrs C has explained that she wanted to buy a second home and on 14 January 2020 she 
had appointments to view two properties and as she was in the area, she arranged to meet 
with her new adviser for the first time. 
She has said one of the house viewings went very well and with that in mind she said there 
was discussion about purchase of the property using her investments. She emailed the 
adviser on 27 January 2020 saying the house purchase was progressing. There was a 
telephone discussion in February 2020 about her Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability resulting 
from how well her investments had performed.
Mrs C telephoned the adviser on 3 March 2020 because she was concerned about the 
market and then received a letter from her investment manager about recent trades in which 
he referred to being made aware that she wanted to raise funds for a holiday home and that 
he was in contact with the adviser as to the best way to raise the funds.
The adviser telephoned her on 18 March 2020 to query whether she was proceeding with 
the house purchase and she confirmed she was at which point she said that the adviser said 
a formal complaint was necessary and the adviser explained that there had been an 
enormous drop in the market and that she had lost around £70,000.
Quilter provided a final response to the complaint in which it said that Mrs C hadnt 
requested withdrawal of her funds on 27 January 2020 and the adviser hadnt indicated he 
had accepted such an instruction. It said the agreed actions from the correspondence that 
day was for the adviser to investigate the most tax-efficient way to withdraw funds.
Quilter said that whilst there had been discussions between the adviser and Mrs C about her 
pending house purchase, as of 3 March 2020 she had told him she hadnt signed any 
documents and there were outstanding queries and the possibility of her pulling out of the 
purchase. It said this indicated withdrawal hadnt been requested as it wasnt clear funds 
would be needed. It also said it wasnt possible to say when it was a good time to sell. 
Quilter said the announcement on 11 March 2020 by the World Health Organisation of there 
being a Pandemic wasnt a trigger for the adviser to contact her and advise her to make 
withdrawals from her portfolio.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said that the adviser didnt do anything wrong because he didnt provide a more 
detailed explanation as to what was required to sell the investments. He thought that the 
adviser did nothing wrong in providing the information only once he was made aware the 
funds were needed. The investigator wasnt satisfied the adviser had confirmed to Mrs C at 
any point that the withdrawal process had started. He also said he had seen no instruction 
from Mrs C to the adviser to sell the investments. He said that Quilter wasnt responsible for 
the value of Mrs Cs investments dropping as this was due to the market.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. In short, she made the following points:
The adviser didnt explain she needed to make a formal application to withdraw 
funds. 
The adviser didnt explain when a sale needed to take place for her to get the funds 
by the end of March and was aware of the need for the funds by the end of the month 
with the residue needed by the end of the second week in April.
There was no indication if the sale would take days or a matter of weeks.
The adviser contacted her on 18 March to see if the sale was going ahead, not at the 
beginning of the month.
Her email of 27 January 2020 stating the purchase was going ahead should have led 
to her being asked to complete a formal application.
Her previous adviser always made sure she was fully informed about paperwork that 
needed completing and signing and she expected the same with the new adviser.
She believed it was part of the advisers job to manage her investments alongside 
her investment manager.
She cant be expected to issue formal instructions unless she is told this is what is 
required.
The adviser Quilter subsequently provided got her to sign a formal request for 
release of funds and this is what would have happened before.
If the investments had been sold when she thought they would be, in early February, 
this would have been her decision.
She didnt expect Quilter to foresee a market downturn or a pandemic she wanted it 
to sell her investments when she wanted.
She accepts Quilter isnt responsible for her investments decreasing in value, but if it 
had sold when she put the wheels in motion, as she thought she had done, she 
wouldnt have complained because the sale would have happened when she wanted. 
She lost the facility of using two tax years to lessen CGT.
The adviser said it would have to be a formal complaint before she expressed any 
dissatisfaction.
As Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings are on a balance of probabilities  what 
is more likely than not  based on the evidence I have seen. Having considered the 
evidence, I am not going to uphold this complaint as I am not satisfied it is more likely than 
not the adviser did something wrong.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs C was intending to purchase a house or that the adviser was made 
aware of this on the 15 January 2020. It also isnt in dispute that there was a discussion 
about Mrs Cs intention to sell some of her portfolio to pay for the house.What is in dispute is whether the adviser did anything wrong because he didnt then take any 
steps to sell Mrs Cs investments. The adviser has said that he was never instructed by Mrs 
C to sell any investments. However, Mrs C had made clear what her intentions were, and the 
adviser was obviously aware of what she intended. 
Mrs C has said that she thought that the adviser was going ahead with selling her 
investments as from 27 January 2020. I note on 27 January 2020 she said the purchase of 
the holiday home was progressing and referred to the developer being happy with 
completion during week two of April 2020 so that two tax years could be utilised. 
In response the same day the adviser asked what net amount Mrs C needed and said once 
he had this, he could look at how best to get this out. Mrs C then emailed on 29 July 2020 
and said the developer had asked for confirmation from her solicitor that the funds were 
available to pay the £288k purchase price and asked the adviser to provide any information 
required. She also referred to having £10,000 available from premium bonds and maybe £2 
or £3K spare in her current account by completion.
She said the developer estimated that exchange of contracts would be before the end of 
February 2020 and that a 10% deposit would need to be available by then and repeated that 
the developer was happy for completion in the second week of April 2020 and that this would 
save the CGT payable if completion was earlier. 
Whilst I think it is clear that adviser was aware that Mrs C would want money available in 
due course there is nothing to suggest in this email correspondence that Mrs C was 
expecting that the adviser would sell her investments to the value of the purchase price of 
the property immediately - or by the end of February 2020 as she suggested in response to 
the investigators opinion she thought would happen. 
The fact Mrs C referred to completion in the second week of April 2020 saving CGT shows 
that she wasnt anticipating that the adviser would sell investments to the value of the 
purchase price by the end of February 2020. I say this because she could only save on CGT 
if sale of her investments took place over two tax years. So, I think it is more likely than not 
that she was aware that some of her investments at least would have to be sold after 5 April 
2020 if she wanted to pay less CGT.
Although Mrs C refers to needing the 10% deposit by the end of February 2020 there were 
ongoing issues regarding the purchase. She has said this wasnt a deal breaker but that she 
wasnt prepared to exchange contracts until she had received certain paperwork from the 
developer through her solicitor. She discussed this with the adviser in a telephone call on 3 
March 2020. 
Mrs C said that in the call she told the adviser she was getting a bit twitchy about the 
market but that he had said that after a sharp drop there was usually a bounce back. Given 
what she has said Mrs C clearly knew on 3 March 2020 that her investments hadnt been 
sold. I say this because she would have had no reason to feel twitchy about what was 
happening in the market if she thought her investments had already been sold.
Mrs C also said that the adviser told her that whilst there had been a sharp drop in value to 
look on the bright side in that CGT  which she said he had told her in February 2020 would 
be around £6k because her investments had done so well - would no longer be an issue. I 
think this again would have made it clear to her that the sale of her investments hadnt yet 
taken place.Mrs C has also referred to the email she received from her investment manager on 5 March 
2020 who said he was in contact with the adviser about how best to raise the funds for her 
purchase. She says she is appalled about the gap between her instructions on 27 January 
2020 and the investment manager being made aware of what she was doing. I think this 
again would have made it clear that her investments hadnt yet been sold.
If she thought the adviser should have sold her investments already and was appalled by 
the apparent gap between her email of 27 January 2020 and the investment managers 
email of 5 March 2020 I can see no reason she wouldnt have immediately contacted the 
adviser on receipt of the email, to query why her investments hadnt been sold. I have seen 
no evidence she did anything upon receipt of that email and I think this suggests she wasnt 
necessarily expecting her investments to have been sold at that time. 
The adviser telephoned Mrs C on 18 March 2020 asking if she still intended to purchase the 
property. Mrs C said she was surprised the adviser was asking this but given that in the 
discussion she had with the adviser on 3 March 2018 she had informed him she wasnt 
exchanging contracts until certain paperwork had been provided, I dont think the advisers 
question was surprising. 
I have seen no evidence the adviser was made aware that Mrs C had received the 
documents she wanted, so on the face of the evidence he wasnt aware of the current 
position regarding the purchase of the property. I think in the circumstances his question was 
understandable.
I dont think it was necessary for the investments to be sold before 18 March 2020 for the 
sale to take place over two tax years. In other words, if Mrs C had confirmed on that call that 
she wanted to proceed with selling over two tax years as originally discussed this could still 
have been achieved. 
However, Mrs C says she was asked by the adviser on 18 March 2020 whether he should 
sell now but that she didnt say yes. So, given she didnt confirm she wanted to go ahead 
with the sale there was no subsequent sale of investments.
I note what Mrs C has said about not being made aware she needed to sign any formal 
documentation. But if she had confirmed on 18 March 2020 that she wanted to go ahead 
with the sale there would have been around two and a half weeks for this to be achieved for 
the sale of investments in the 2019/2020 tax year. 
I think it is more likely than not this would have given enough time for necessary documents 
to be completed and investments sold. So, I am not satisfied that her not being made aware 
of the need to complete formal documentation would have prevented the sale of her 
investments over two tax years.
I note Mrs C has referred to the adviser saying in the call of 18 March 2020 that it would 
have to be a complaint before she expressed any dissatisfaction, whereas the adviser 
suggests he decided to treat her call as a complaint because she had expressed 
dissatisfaction. 
I dont think I need to make a finding about this because regardless of the advisers reasons 
for treating the call as a complaint I am not persuaded that there is enough persuasive 
evidence that the adviser did something wrong because Mrs Cs investments werent sold as 
of 18 March 2020.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman