The complaint
Mr C complains Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account. He also says Revolut took too 
long to return his money to him. He says this caused him trouble and upset because he 
couldnt pay for important medical appointments. He wants Revolut to compensate him for 
the impact this had on him.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Revolut.
On 16 April 2020, Revolut blocked Mr Cs account and told him it needed to speak to him 
about how he was operating his account.  
Mr C provided Revolut with information about the payments made into his account. This 
included paperwork relating to two pensions and information about his business. He also told 
Revolut that he had been unwell with a serious health condition and needed the money in 
his account released quickly so that he could make important weekly medical appointments, 
which he had to pay for upfront. 
Revolut released Mr Cs funds on 25 June 2020. And told him that it was closing his account 
immediately. Revolut apologised for how long it had taken to complete its review and close 
Mr Cs account. It explained this had been caused by a backlog of work and offered Mr C 
£100 compensation for any trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr C didnt accept Revoluts offer. He said that hed been a good customer of the bank and 
had always maintained his account properly. He said because his account was blocked, he 
wasnt able to pay for important medical appointments and he struggled to pay for everyday 
living expenses, which together had had an impact on his health. He also said Revolut 
hadnt kept him informed about what it was doing and didnt respond to his messages. He 
said the £100 compensation Revolut offered wasnt enough to reflect the amount of trouble 
and upset hed been caused.  So, he brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things.
The investigator asked Mr C for some more information about his health and medical 
appointments. Mr C gave us a hospital report which showed he had been diagnosed with a 
serious illness in 2019. But he wasnt able to provide anything to show that he was required 
to attend weekly medical appointments.
The investigator didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong when it had blocked and 
decided to close Mr Cs account.  But she said the bank could have released Mr Cs funds 
sooner as it had completed what it was doing by 19 May 2020. The investigator also thought 
Revolut shouldve provided Mr C with better service and responded to his messages when 
he had contacted the bank to try and find out what was happening with his account, 
especially as Mr C had told Revolut he wasnt in the best of health. So, she said Revolut 
DRN-2195174should do more to put things right and pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset hed suffered along with interest for loss of use of the money in his account. 
Mr C disagreed. He wants more compensation. Revolut agreed but wanted some clarity 
regarding the time period it was being asked to pay interest. As no agreement has been 
reached the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same findings and conclusions as the investigator. I know 
this will be a disappointment to Mr C. So, Ill explain why.
Revolut has already accepted it should have provided Mr C with better service when it 
blocked and closed Mr Cs account. The bank has explained that this was caused by a back 
log of work. Theres no dispute between the parties as to the events that have taken place. 
So, I need not repeat them here. In this decision, what I need to decide is whether the 
current offer of compensation is fair and reasonable to settle this complaint. I also must keep 
in mind the level of awards wed generally make for broadly similar situations. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr C has been unwell and I can appreciate things have been 
very difficult for him and his family since his diagnosis. I hope his health improves in the 
future. 
Mr C has provided us with hospital reports about his health, which show he was diagnosed 
with a serious medical condition in early 2019. Mr C has told us that as part of his treatment 
he needs to attend weekly medical appointments to avoid a health relapse. But says he had 
to delay these appointments because Revolut took too long to release his funds. This along 
with Revoluts failure to respond to his messages about what was happening with his 
account caused him a great deal of stress and inconvenience.
The investigator asked Mr C to provide evidence to show he had to cancel medical 
appointments. But Mr C hasnt provided this information. Hes explained that he wasnt 
actually able to make the appointments as they needed to be paid for in advance. And he 
needed the money in his Revolut account to do so. Whilst I accept what Mr C says about the 
arrangements for making his appointments, I would have expected Mr C to be able to 
provide evidence to show he was required to attend weekly appointments, such as a 
treatment plan, and that he had been attending weekly appointments up to the point his 
account had been blocked. But he hasnt been able to do this. So, Im not satisfied Revoluts 
delays prevented Mr C making medical appointments. 
But I do think hes been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I say this because 
I can see that Revolut finished what is was doing on 19 May 2020. So, it should have 
released Mr Cs money to him. But Mr C had to wait until 25 June 2020  some 6 weeks 
later, to get access to his funds. Revolut has explained that it was dealing with a backlog of 
work, which caused the delay. I dont think its unreasonable for a backlog to lead to a few 
weeks delay. But I do think Revolut couldve released Mr Cs funds sooner. And given Mr Cs 
health issues, I can see how a delay of six weeks was more significant to him. 
I can also see from looking at Revoluts contact notes that the bank stopped responding to 
Mr Cs app messages on 22 April 2020, which meant Mr C had to go to the trouble of 
sending further messages. Its clear from looking at Mr Cs messages he became very frustrated at the lack of service he received. Revolut hasnt explained why it didnt 
acknowledge Mr Cs messages. But I think I think its unlikely Mr C would have repeatedly 
sent messages if the bank had responded to him. So, I think Revolut could have provided 
Mr C with better service.  
In summary, Ive no doubt Mr C has had an upsetting and frustrating time. And Im satisfied 
that he was put to some trouble and upset having to repeatedly contact Revolut and wait six 
weeks for his funds to be released. But I share the investigators assessment and think £250 
compensation is fair, and reasonable. And that Revolut should pay 8% interest on Mr Cs 
account balance of £660.66 from 19 May 2020 until 25 June 2020, when the funds were 
released to Mr C. So, I wont be asking Revolut to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Revolut Ltd should pay Mr C £250 for the 
delay in releasing his funds and poor service, plus 8% simple on the closing balance of 
Mr Cs account, £660.66 from 19 May 2020 until 25 June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman