DRN-3282697
The complaint
Miss M complains that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) was irresponsible to 
lend to her.
What happened
Miss M borrowed £1,500 from Savvy on 27 May 2021. The loan was due to be repaid by 15 
monthly instalments of £200.00 with the last payment due on 18 August 2022.
Miss M says she was already struggling financially when she applied for the loan. She says 
shed developed a gambling addiction and this, combined with family bereavements, led to a 
worsening financial situation and severe mental health issues. Miss M says she doesnt think 
Savvy carried out enough checks as she had a poor credit score and multiple other high cost 
loans. She adds that she is having to borrow money each month just to cover living costs.
Savvy says it asked Miss M about income and expenditure and conducted a credit check. It 
says it verified her income and there was nothing of concern on her credit file, but it queried 
her high disposable income. Savvy says Miss M explained she was living with parents but 
recently had high vet bills to pay. Savvy says its affordability check showed the repayments 
were affordable to Miss M but offered to set up a repayment plan for the balance.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied that 
Savvy had carried out proportionate checks and, had it done so, she said it was likely to 
have found Miss M was spending significant money on gambling and was regularly 
borrowing from other short-term lenders. She said Savvy should remove any interest and 
charges on the loan and treat all the payments Miss M made towards it as payments 
towards the capital. She said Savvy should refund any overpayments (plus 8% interest) or 
set up a repayment plan for any outstanding balance. Our adjudicator added that Savvy 
should also remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Ms credit file.
Savvy responded to say that Miss M declared she spent nothing on gambling during the 
application and her credit file only showed a credit card. It says it was not obliged to ask for 
bank statements and having verified her income and asked about her low expenditure it had 
no concerns. It adds that Miss Ms complaint was received within the cooling-off period and 
although she was told she could withdraw without paying interest she decided not to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
When Miss M applied for her loan, I can see Savvy asked her about her income and 
expenditure and checked her credit file. But Im not satisfied these checks went far enough 
in the circumstances of the lending. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 15 months and Savvy needed to be satisfied that the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Although Savvy verified Miss Ms income, I cant see it checked her expenditure;
The credit file showed only one active account, but it showed a clear history of short-
term loans and I consider it would have been responsible for Savvy to have checked 
whether Miss M had any other outstanding short-term loans before it agreed to lend.
I acknowledge that Savvy queried Miss Ms high disposable income, but, for the above 
reasons, I find it should have verified her answers.Miss M hasnt provided a full credit file, but shes provided bank statements which Ive used 
as a reasonable proxy for what proportionate checks were likely to have shown. This shows:
Miss M spent almost £3,000 on gambling transactions in April 2021;
She was funding the gambling by:
oReceiving advances on her salary;
oTaking out cash advances on her credit card;
oUsing short-term loans:
There are eight different short-term loan companies on Miss Ms bank 
statements for April and May 2021;
At least three of these were active at the time of the Savvy lending.
So, I find it likely that proportionate checks would have shown that Miss M was already 
struggling to manage her money and that further lending was unsustainable for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) 
should:
Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Miss M made towards it as payments towards the capital;
If reworking Miss Ms loan account as Ive directed results in Miss M effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Savvy should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*
If reworking Miss Ms account leaves capital still to be paid, then Savvy should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan  up to the date the complaint is settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman