DRN-1021970
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mrs O says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclays had to make it clear to Mrs O that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs O says it wasnt made clear to her that the policy was optional.
Barclays has sent us its record of Mrs Os application for the credit card. This shows the 
application was made online and that Mrs O selected yes when asked about PPI.
Based on this, and what I understand about Barclays sales practices at the time, I think 
Barclays did make it clear to Mrs O that she had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs O 
chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Barclays gave Mrs O any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means Barclays didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mrs O. But it did have to make sure she got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And 
it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her family or any other means she had to make 
her repayments if she wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs O off taking it out.
Which means Mrs O doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
 
 
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because:Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
O, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman