DRN-1750986
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with HSBC in 2000. At the same time he bought a PPI policy 
which would have covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. It also provided an extra sum 
to cover other mortgage-related expenses. 
Mr S says he was told he had to have the PPI to qualify for the mortgage. He says he didnt 
need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when making my decision. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr S doesnt dispute that he bought the PPI policy, but he says that he was misled into 
believing he had to have the PPI to qualify for the mortgage. 
HSBC says the PPI was optional. Mr S was provided with the first six months cover free. 
HSBC has provided copies of Mr Ss mortgage loan agreement form. Theres no mention of 
PPI on here. If it had been a condition of the mortgage I think it would have been shown 
here. Theres an electronic record of Mr Ss application and it indicates there was a choice 
about the PPI. In addition, HSBC has supplied a copy of the demands and needs 
assessment  the personal financial planning review - for Mr S. In this it explains that Mr S 
has told HSBC that he was concerned that he didnt have sufficient resources to cover his 
mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. It recommended he take PPI and the form 
indicates Mr S accepted this advice.
I cant know with any certainty whether Mr S was told something different in his conversation 
with the salesperson over 20 years ago, but Im satisfied based on the information available 
to me that the PPI was optional. There is nothing to suggest that the PPI would have 
influenced HSBCs lending decision in any way. I also note that the first six months 
premiums were free. If the PPI had been compulsory I dont think HSBC would have offered 
an incentive like this. 
On balance, I think Mr S bought the PPI understanding he had a choice about it. 
HSBC gave Mr S a personal recommendation about the PPI so it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for him. Looking at Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale I 
think that it was. I say this because:
Mr S was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr S didnt have any contractual sick pay, so if he was too ill to work hed have had 
to rely on statutory sick pay which would have been a lot less than his regular salary. 
It wouldnt have covered his mortgage and hed still have had other uninsured 
expenses to pay, like food costs and bills. So the PPI offered a useful benefit 
because it would pay out in addition to this;
Similarly, Mr Ss statutory redundancy pay wouldve only been the equivalent of a few 
weeks salary. The PPI would have paid out for up to a year at a time. And as Mr S 
was solely responsible for the mortgage payments it was advisable to have another 
means of meeting them if he wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible because it could be cancelled at any time without a 
financial penalty. And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr S.
HSBC also had to make sure Mr S had all the information he needed to make his decision. 
Its possible Mr S wasnt given all the finer detail. I think hed have at least understood the 
premium he was paying would mean the policy would cover his mortgage payments if he 
wasnt working, even if he didnt know about all the terms and conditions. And as I think the 
policy was suitable for him in the way Ive described I dont think Mr S would have made a 
different choice if hed had all the information. 
Mr S says he would have converted his mortgage to interest only if he was out of work. But 
this may not have been possible, and even if it was possible it would have meant he had 
more capital to pay off at a later date. The policy would have prevented him needing to do 
this. 
Mr S also says that he was in his 20s and could work from home. I presume Mr S means 
that he didnt need to go to an office if he wasnt well. But this wouldnt have helped if he was 
sick with an illness that meant he couldnt work at all. And even if his risk of being seriously 
ill was lower in his 20s he couldnt guarantee he would stay well. Insurance is designed to 
cover unexpected circumstances.
So, on balance, on the information I have available to me I dont think Mr S lost out as a 
result of anything HSBC might have done wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint so it follows that HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman