DRN-3600020
The complaint
Mr P complains Skipton Building Society (Skipton) wrongly transferred all his cash ISA funds 
to a third-party provider. There were then unnecessary delays in returning the funds and it 
failed to adequately communicate with Mr P. He asks for his funds to be returned and to be 
compensated for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr P opened a stocks and shares ISA with a third-party provider and opted to 
transfer £20,000 from his Cash ISA with Skipton.
On 3 August 2021 the transfer was completed but unfortunately, Skipton made an error and 
transferred the entire balance of the Cash ISA. Mr P contacted Skipton on 11 August 2021 
as he had received paperwork from the provider to show his entire balance had been 
transferred.
On 17 August 2021, Skipton contacted the provider to explain the error and request the 
funds in excess of the £20,000 be returned.
Having had no response, it chased the provider regularly until the funds were finally returned 
in November 2021.
Mr P was very unhappy with the way the matter had been handled and he complained to 
Skipton.
On 21 October 2021, Skipton issued its final response apologizing for its mistake and 
confirming it was still chasing the provider for the funds but upon receipt it would calculate 
the interest due for the time the funds had been with the provider and offered £100 for the 
trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Dissatisfied, Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr P. He agreed that Skipton had made an error, but 
he could also see it had taken all reasonable steps in attempt to correct the matter. He found 
the offer of £100 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr P disagreed. He pointed to a number of communication failures he thought the Skipton 
were responsible for including advising him the matter was resolved in August 2021. He 
asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator, Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Skipton. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. My role here is to consider if Skipton followed the regulations and its own policies 
and procedures fairly and if not what it should do to put matters right. 
I think its also important to say I am only considering what role Skipton had here. Theres no 
dispute here that Skipton made the initial error of transferring the whole balance instead of 
the amount Mr P opted for. He made them aware very quickly of their error and I can see 
Skipton acted upon that information very quickly in contacting the third-party provider to 
request a return of the funds.
The contact logs also clearly show that it continued to chase the provider and ultimately 
started to chase the provider every couple of days in effort to have the funds returned, so Im 
persuaded the Skipton did everything it could to return the funds as quickly as possible. I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for the delays in returning the funds from the other provider.
Once it secured the funds, Skipton calculated the lost interest and offered to pay Mr P £100 
in recognition of the trouble and upset his matter had caused. 
I appreciate Mr P feels this doesnt reflect the worry this matter has caused, and I dont want 
to underplay the trouble and upset this matter has caused Mr P. But Its fair to say the 
awards this service makes for trouble and upset are relatively modest, again reflecting the 
fact this is a free service and alternative to the courts. Although Skipton acted quickly to 
correct it error and minimise the impact on Mr P, I found £100 to fall short of fair and 
reasonable. I advised both parties I intended to increase this to £200, on the basis Mr P did 
have to keep checking with Skipton what was happening, and I think it should have been 
more pro-active in updating him. 
My decision does not prevent Mr P from raising a complaint regarding the delay in returning 
the funds with the other provider.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Skipton Building Society to increase its offer to £200 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman