DRN-1328095
 
The complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mr L applied for a credit card in 1996, and bought a regular premium PPI policy at or in the 
years following the opening of his credit card account. I cant say exactly how much this 
policy cost Mr L but from what we know of the policies that Lloyds sold at the time I think it 
wouldnt have cost more than 79p per every £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on his 
credit card. 
This policy covered Mr L in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld because he didnt think there 
was enough information to show Lloyds had mis-sold the policy.
Mr L disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr L cant remember how he applied for his credit card and Lloyds havent been able to 
provide us with any of the documents from the time of the sale or confirm how the policy was 
sold. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was presented. 
But from what I know about all the different ways Lloyds sold PPI during the period Mr L was 
sold the policy, I think its likely that it wouldve made Mr L aware that PPI was optional and I 
think Mr L wouldve had PPI added to his account because he chose to take it. I understand 
Mr L might not remember this, but Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice 
or that he didnt agree to buy it.
To be fair to Mr L I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised sale. What this means 
is that Lloyds not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr L could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to 
make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and 
circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But from what I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr L for 
the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
Mr L says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other means of making his 
credit card payments if he couldnt work. A successful claim on the policy wouldve 
covered his credit card payments for up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful 
benefit to Mr L in his circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time and 
if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr L information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr L has told us about his circumstances at 
the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information on the policy.  
So it follows that I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it sold PPI to Mr L. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman