DRN-1584981
 
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) stopped a direct debit 
payment for her credit card. It resulted in the credit card account being sold on to debt 
collectors. 
What happened
Miss M had an RBS credit card. She made payments to this by direct debit from an RBS 
account. But RBS cancelled the direct debit for her credit card in July 2019. It said the direct 
debit had been returned in June and July 2019. And it said it sent her a letter to make her 
aware of this. 
RBS said it sent 13 letters between June and October 2019, and that its automated system 
had tried to contact her 10 times. These letters were to notify her that the direct debit had 
been cancelled, the account was in arrears, payments were missed, and the account was in 
default. And this attempted contact was in addition to the statements sent each month. 
Miss M said she wasnt aware that her direct debit had been cancelled. She told us she has 
an account for bills but doesnt check it. And that she didnt hear anything from RBS, so only 
found out what had happened when she was contacted by the debt collection agency. 
RBS said it hadnt made an error in cancelling the direct debit, but it initially seemed to agree 
that Miss M hadnt received the letter to notify her of the cancellation. It also recognised that 
it hadnt contacted her to discuss the matter as it shouldve done. So it credited her account 
with £95.25 which included £75 compensation and £20.25 for call costs. 
RBS also said that, while Miss M had said she didnt check the account, shed made calls to 
query the balance on the account, and to question a direct debit that had gone out. So, 
overall, it didnt think it had made any errors in cancelling the direct debit, sending the 
account to external agents or recording negative entries on Miss Ms credit file. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt think RBS was wrong to cancel the 
direct debit. He was satisfied that it had done enough to make Miss M aware that she 
needed to take action, and that it acted fairly in passing the account to a debt collection 
agency when it hadnt received any payments for several months. Miss M disagreed. She 
said that she hadnt received any letters, calls or texts from RBS. And she thought she 
should be allowed to pay back the money owed to RBS, rather than to the debt collection 
agency.
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss M, I dont uphold her complaint  Ill 
explain why.
Ive thought carefully about whats happened here. Given that two payments had been 
returned unpaid, it doesnt seem unreasonable that RBS cancelled the direct debit. But I 
would expect it to notify Miss M that it had done so, to make her aware of the situation and to 
notify her that shed need to take some action. It doesnt seem to be entirely clear whether 
this happened, based on the final response letter that RBS sent to Miss M. 
So, as Im not sure about whether this letter sent and/or received, Ive thought about what 
else RBS did. Its provided us with sample copies of the letters that it said were sent to 
Miss M, over a period of several months, which say that the account was in arrears, 
payments had been missed and the account was in default. While Miss M has said that she 
didnt receive any of these, Ive seen system notes that persuade me they were sent. And, 
given that the address and phone number match the information we hold, I think RBS has 
done what it could reasonably be expected to do in order to get in touch with Miss M. 
Ive also considered what Miss M told us about not checking her bank account. Evidence 
from RBS would suggest that she does check her account or, at the very least, has checked 
her account. I say this because she called RBS to query her balance and a direct debit that 
went out. But, regardless of this, I cant reasonably hold RBS responsible for whether Miss M 
chooses to look at her accounts. It follows that I cant fairly hold it responsible for the fact 
that the minimum credit card repayments werent met, which ultimately led to the 
involvement of a debt collection agency. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think RBS has acted unfairly here. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. I also dont think the communication issues that led to 
compensation being paid have negatively impacted the situation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman