DRN-3172197
The complaint
Mr R complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Carnwyllon 
Wealth Management Ltd (CWM, the respondent business in this complaint) and another 
financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted CWM. 
Mr R met with CWM in July 2017, during which it gathered information about his financial 
circumstances. But as CWM didnt hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS, it told Mr R he 
would be referred to Firm B. It also told Mr R that if he went ahead with the transfer, the 
advice fee would be shared equally between CWM and Firm B.
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr R a recommendation letter on 20 October 2017 advising him 
to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension. It recommended he invest the funds with 
a business Ill refer to as M. £375,923.39 was transferred to his new pension and was 
invested with M. Mr R was referred back to CWM for ongoing advice and servicing of his 
pension.
In 2019 Mr R complained to both CWM and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B didnt uphold the complaint and Mr R referred his complaint about it to our service. 
However, whilst the complaint was with us, Firm B went into liquidation so Mr Rs complaint 
about this business has been referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
CWM told Mr R it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to Firm B.
Mr Rs representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying CWM should be 
held liable for the advice. The representative said Mr R had met with CWM several times, 
but he didnt recall meeting with Firm B. It said Mr R had been verbally advised to transfer by 
CWM and he had relied on its advice. It added that CWM had recommended the pension 
plan with M, which was too expensive for him.
CMW told our investigator that it didnt think Mr R had a right to complain about its alleged 
role in the advice because Mr R didnt become its customer until after his BSPS benefits 
were transferred. It said introducing Mr R to Firm B was not a regulated activity.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint but he thought Mr R could complain about 
CWM. He wasnt persuaded that CWM had advised Mr R to transfer his pension  he was 
satisfied that Mr R had only transferred his pension because Firm B advised him to do so. 
The investigator thought Mr Rs alleged loss had ultimately arisen due to Firm Bs actions.
Mr Rs representative didnt accept this. It said CWM had recommended the pension plan 
with M, and Mr R would not have gone ahead with this product without the advice and 
encouragement of CWM. It said the reason for CWM pressuring Mr R to apply for the plan 
with M straight away was because M stopped taking new applications after 28 July 2017. It 
said the time pressure led CWM to go beyond its role of introducer. It said if the investigator 
didnt accept that CWM gave Mr R advice, CWM should at least refund the fee it received.
CWM still didnt think that Mr R was eligible to complain about its involvement before it 
started giving Mr R ongoing advice on his pension in December 2017.
The investigator didnt change his opinion. He informed Mr Rs representative that the fee 
paid to CWM was contingent on him transferring his BSPS benefits  so this formed part of 
the loss arising from the transfer. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can Mr R complain about the actions of CWM before his BSPS benefits were transferred?
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints is set out in the FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules. There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a 
complaint, ranging from whether the complainant is eligible to whether the activity 
complained about is something we can investigate.
It isnt in dispute that Mr R is a consumer as per DISP 2.7.3(1). However, in order for him to 
be an eligible complainant, he must also have a complaint which arises from matters 
relevant to a specific relationship with the respondent  CWM. DISP 2.7.6 lists the relevant 
relationships; DISP 2.7.6(2) says that if Mr R is (or was) a potential customer of CWM, then 
he would meet that requirement. And Im satisfied Mr W was a potential customer of CWM 
when he had the first meetings with it, before he transferred his BSPS benefits.
However, DISP 2.3.1 states that we can only consider complaints relating to certain 
specified activities, including regulated activities, and ancillary activities. Ancillary activity is 
defined in the FCA Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:
a) carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
In relation to ancillary activities, the Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the
ancillary link may exist both forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary activities in connection with regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as 
regulated activities it is in the process of carrying on or has already carried on.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that CWM carried out the initial fact-finding and attitude to 
risk assessment with Mr R, introduced Mr R to Firm B, and then provided advice after the 
transfer. But fact-finding is not a regulated activity. Introducing is also not a regulated activity 
where the introduction is made to an authorised firm with a view to advice or the exercise of 
discretion in relation to investments. This type of introduction is specifically excluded by 
Article 33 of the Regulated Activities Order. However, the ongoing advice provided after the 
transfer was a regulated activity, although as I understand no fault in that advice is alleged 
nor any loss attributed to such a fault  the complaint is entirely about the events prior to the 
transfer advice and that advice itself.
CWM says it didnt give Mr R any advice and that it didnt arrange the pension plan with M. It 
also says that Mr R could not have been a client of CWM and Firm B at the same time. It 
maintains that Mr R didnt become its client until December 2017, when it took on the 
ongoing servicing of the pension and started giving advice.
I appreciate that Mr R didnt sign CWMs client agreement until December 2017, but whether 
or not CWM carried on a regulated activity, or an ancillary activity, prior to that doesnt 
depend on the date Mr R formally agreed to become CWMs client. It isnt in dispute that 
CMW carried on a regulated activity when it started giving Mr R ongoing advice and 
servicing of his pension. So, the key issue here is whether the earlier fact-finding and 
introduction to Firm B can be considered as ancillary to the later ongoing advice.
CWM may argue that at the point of its early contact with Mr R, it couldnt have known that 
Firm B would go on to advise Mr R to transfer his BSPS benefits. And as the provision of 
ongoing advice was dependent on the advice to transfer, its early contact cannot be 
considered as ancillary. But Firm B did in fact advise Mr R to transfer out of the BSPS and 
servicing was then transferred to CWM. So, Im satisfied there is a clear connection between 
the introduction, transfer advice, and ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain 
would therefore be ancillary to the third. I also note that the nature of the introducer 
agreement between CWM and Firm B was such that servicing would normally be transferred 
back to CWM after advice was given, and as per CWMs fact-find, Mr R was informed that 
this was an option. Its clear from CWMs fact-find that it discussed Mr Curtiss intended 
retirement age and his income requirements in retirement, and it seems likely that both 
parties envisaged the introduction leading to CWM providing ongoing advice on these 
benefits later. So, I think CWMs prior activities were ancillary to its later provision of ongoing 
advice.
For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether or not 
CWM went beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the pension. 
DISP 2.3.1 states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that are ancillary 
activities carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that there is a 
regulated activity to which the introduction can be connected. As Ive said, I think there is an 
ancillary link between CWMs prior activities and the later ongoing advice, and on that basis 
I believe we can consider the complaint about those prior activities. To my mind, it doesnt 
matter that Mr R hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that matters is that there is 
a regulated activity to which the activities he has complained about are ancillary.
The merits of Mr Rs complaint
My understanding of the representatives position is that CWM should be held liable for the 
advice because it believes CWM went beyond its role of introducer. It says CWM persuaded 
Mr R to transfer his BSPS benefits and take out the pension with M before Firm Bs involvement and Mr R relied on its advice. It says the fact an illustration for the pension with 
M was produced on 7 July 2017 is evidence of this. However, it also believes Firm B is 
responsible for the advice.
CWM did not hold permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an introducer agreement in place with 
Firm B. Im aware of a significant number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS 
benefits who were introduced by CWM to Firm B. I note that Mr Rs representative has said 
there is a pattern of behaviour that can be drawn from this. This is because the majority of 
these customers were advised to take out the pension with M, and many say that CWM 
sold this product to them before any involvement of Firm B. However, in considering Mr Rs 
case, Ive made my decision based on the evidence available to me in respect of Mr Rs 
interactions with CWM.
Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
to show that CWM advised Mr R to transfer his BSPS benefits. Based on what Ive seen, 
CWM met with Mr R on a couple of occasions, it completed a fact-find and attitude to risk 
assessment and told Mr R he would be referred to Firm B for advice. CWM didnt gather any 
information about Mr Rs objectives and I havent seen any evidence to show that CWM 
gave Mr R a personal recommendation. However, I do think its likely that CWM was 
operating on the presumption that Firm B would probably advise Mr R to transfer out of the 
BSPS. I say this because CWM produced an illustration for the pension with M on 
7 July 2017  assuming that his BSPS benefits would be transferred to it  which is before 
Mr R had been formally introduced to Firm B. So, I think its possible Mr R had the 
impression that CWM was advocating for the transfer of his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension. But I dont think that necessarily means CWM advised Mr R to take out the pension 
with M.
While it was most likely CWM that introduced the product with M to Mr R, ultimately Im 
persuaded that it was Firm B that recommended the pension plan with M. Mr R says he 
doesnt recall meeting with Firm B, but the evidence Ive seen shows Firm B carried out an 
attitude to risk assessment with Mr R on 17 July 2021. So, CWM had introduced Mr R to 
Firm B by that point and Firm B had started gathering the information it needed to give Mr R 
advice. I note the application form for the pension was signed by the adviser at Firm B and 
Mr R on 21 July 2017, which included the details of Mr Rs BSPS benefits to be transferred. 
Although this was before Firm B produced its recommendation letter in October 2017, I dont 
think that means the pension with M was recommended by CWM. It seems more likely to me 
that the application was made early in view of Ms deadline for new applications. And while 
Firm B didnt formally provide its recommendation until October 2017, it appears to have 
already decided by that point that it was going to be recommending Mr R transfer his BSPS 
benefits to M. So, while it was CWM that produced the illustration, I think it was only because 
of Firm Bs involvement that Mr R applied for the pension with M and later transferred his 
BSPS benefits to it.
Although Mr R says he relied on his interactions with CWM when deciding whether to 
transfer his BSPS benefits, Mr R couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with 
CWM alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that 
Mr R would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice 
if he wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement 
was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr R would need 
to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear 
to me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that CWM did not issue any recommendation letter 
or suitability report to Mr R advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr R recommending that he transfer out of the BSPS to a pension with M. So, Mr R couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he 
had with CWM or any verbal advice he feels he was given.
I accept that CWM received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Rs transfer, as 
a result of it introducing Mr R to Firm B. But, ultimately, Firm B gave the advice for Mr R to 
transfer, and I dont think CWMs earlier involvement automatically makes CWM liable for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B. 
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr R would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Rs 
representative says Mr R was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with CWM. 
But on balance I dont think Mr R wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm B. Mr R 
was a relatively inexperienced investor and the risk assessments carried out by both firms 
showed him to have a cautious attitude to risk. So, if Firm B had provided Mr R with clear 
advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think 
Mr R wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with CWM.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr R to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for 
Mr Rs losses flowing from the transfer. This includes the advice fee Mr R paid to CWM, 
which Mr Rs representative should be refunded. I dont think CWM needs to refund this 
because Im satisfied the fee was only payable if the transfer of the BSPS benefits went 
ahead. And as it was Firm Bs advice that led to the transfer, this loss flows from that advice. 
Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by the FSCS, so Mr R will need to pursue a 
claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already doing so.
Mr Rs representative also said in response to the investigators view that CWM did not treat 
Mr R fairly. It didnt elaborate on what it meant by this, but Im aware it has raised a similar 
argument in relation to different complaint involving a different business who introduced the 
customer to another regulated firm. In that case it said the business didnt act in the 
customers best interests by partnering with the other firm as it didnt carry out appropriate 
analysis of that firm before referring the customer to it. It argued that the business should 
have done so to prevent the customer suffering detriment.
I have therefore considered whether this applies here. As I have said above, CWM did not 
have the necessary permissions to advise on defined-benefits held in occupational pension 
schemes. Mr R approached CWM for advice on his BSPS benefits so it referred Mr R to 
Firm B, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think 
CWM could reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly 
as Firm B had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a 
regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr R fairly, act in his best interests and 
provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was CWMs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Rs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also not 
persuaded that CWM made an error or treated Mr R unfairly in the role it carried out.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require CWM to pay compensation to Mr R or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman