DRN-2992503
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges for damage when he returned his car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
Mr M says he was told by a salesman at a dealership that the damage was acceptable. And 
he said because of a delay to the car being collected he didnt get the chance to get the 
damage repaired himself.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr M acquired a car using a personal contract purchase (PCP) with MBFS. He 
took the agreement over a period of three years.
In April 2020 the agreement ended. But, due to a delay caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the car wasnt collected until June 2020, by a company Ill call J.
The car was taken by J and an inspection was done. Mr M then received an invoice for a 
total of £460  consisting of charges of £115 each for damage to all four alloy wheels.
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. 
MBFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, that it had looked at Js inspection and 
thought all of the damage fell outside of the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) that Mr M 
agreed to. It said Mr M had seen these when he took the agreement, and it sent a copy to 
him six months before the end of the agreement.
Mr M brought the complaint to our service. He said he took the car to a dealership before it 
was returned and the staff member said any damage to the alloys was fair wear and tear, so 
he didnt get them refurbished. He said because of the COVID-19 pandemic he couldnt 
have got the wheels refurbished. And he was unhappy with having to keep the car on his 
drive at the end of the agreement.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, he said he thought the damage to the alloys fell outside of the VRS guidelines 
and so MBFS could charge Mr M for all four wheels. He said there was no evidence that 
Mr M had taken the car to the showroom, but thought MBFS would rely on the inspection 
report even if he did. He also said Mr M couldve got the repairs done before the lockdown.
Mr M remained unhappy with this. He reiterated that a sales person from the dealer had said 
the wheels were okay. And he said he was unhappy with the car being left on his drive.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr M complains about charges in relation to a PCP agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Ms complaint about MBFS. 
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr M for damage. Looking at the 
agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr M agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
So, Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In relation to wheels, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
Scuff (sic) chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
The BVRLA says:
Scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable
The BVRLA also says:
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
 
Looking at the photos of the wheels, Im satisfied there is extensive damage to all four alloys. 
All of the alloys have deep marks on the outside of the wheel that Im satisfied all fall out of 
the guidelines above. In addition, all of the alloys have obvious damage to the spokes. As an 
overall comment, I would say all four wheels were in poor condition.
Given this, I think MBFS were entitled to charge Mr M for the damage.
Ive considered that Mr M says he was told by a staff member at a dealer this damage was 
fair wear and tear. Ive carefully thought about this. But, I think its very unlikely Mr M was 
told this given the state of the wheels. 
Even if I accepted Mr M was told this at the time, I would still say MBFS were entitled to 
charge him for the damage. I say this as I think the damage is so obviously outside of fair 
wear and tear that, while I could understand him being unhappy with the service from the 
dealer, I dont think it would have been reasonable for him to have relied on this comment. And ultimately it seems reasonable that MBFS would base its decision to charge Mr M on Js 
report  not what a salesperson may have previously said.
Ive thought about Mr Ms point that because of lockdown he couldnt get the wheels 
refurbished at a place of his choosing. But Mr M argues that the reason he didnt get the 
wheels refurbished was because he was told, and believed, that they were acceptable. And, 
either way, he still wouldve had to pay to get them refurbished. So, this doesnt change my 
opinion.
Finally, Ive considered what Mr M said about the fact he had to keep the car on his drive 
while he was waiting for it to be picked up. I was sorry to read this was frustrating for him. 
But, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted lots of businesses and their ability to provide their 
usual levels of service. Given this, I dont think MBFS needs to take any action to put this 
right.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive considered everything else hes said in relation to this 
complaint. But, it doesnt change my opinion that MBFS have been fair and reasonable in 
charging him for the damage to the car
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman