DRN-1148839
 
The complaint
Dr B is unhappy The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade Practice (TFTP) 
has charged a fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she hadn't 
authorised it to make.
What happened
In March 2019, Dr B agreed for TFTP to check whether she had any PPI policies with her 
lenders. And several accounts were identified with lender 'B'. In May 2019, Dr B's claims 
were successful and lender 'B' told her the amount of compensation she would receive. In 
June 2019, as Dr B's claim had been successful, TFTP sent her an invoice for its fee.
Dr B disagreed with the full amount being charged as she said TFTP hadn't been authorised 
to make a claim for all the accounts she was getting compensation for. She also said she'd 
not been made aware that the fee would be charged on the gross amount of any 
compensation awarded to her, rather than on the amount left after income tax had been 
deducted from her compensation.
TFTP said Dr B had authorised it to act as her representative and had agreed for it to 
make her PPI claims. And its terms and conditions are clear and show how it charges its fee. 
Dr B referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said TFTP could charge its fee. She said TFTP had been authorised to 
submit the PPI claims to lender 'B' and the claims were successful.
Dr B didn't agree as she didn't think it was fair that TFTP has charged a fee for accounts she 
hadn't authorised it to make a claim for. Dr B has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this 
complaint and I'll explain why.
Dr B signed a number of Letters of Authority (LoA) instructing TFTP to act for her. I have 
looked at all of them but I have focussed on the LoA Dr B signed 30 March 2019. This states 
it's for a credit card ending *0002.  Dr B says that her authorisation was for this card only 
and that she hadn't authorised TFTP to make a claim for any cards linked to it.
But the LoA Dr B signed for card ending *0002 says:
"By signing below I confirm that I agree to those terms and conditions that I have 
entered into a binding legal contract with The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The 
Fair Trade Practise in relation to the account identified within this authority (the account). I further agree and confirm any subsequent accounts identified with the lender as a result of 
enquiries made by The Fair Trade Practise will be subject to those terms and conditions".
So I'm satisfied Dr B had authorised TFTP not only to submit a claim for credit card *0002. 
But in submitting this LoA Dr B was authorising TFTP to represent her with any other 
accounts' lender 'B'  linked to it. And in April 2019, lender B said it had received Dr B's claim 
under this LoA and it was considering four credit cards *1009, *0002, *3568 and *0980.
Another of the claims submitted by TFTP was for a credit card  Dr B had with a different 
lender, who I'll call lender 'M'. TFTP asked Dr B to provide further details about the card but 
did add the card might have had another less expensive form of card insurance rather than 
PPI. But when Dr B provided the statements for this card it was identified as card ending 
*3568. 
Lender 'B' had, some years before taken responsibility for lender 'M's credit cards. And  card 
ending *3568 was one of the credit cards that had already been identified by lender 'B', in 
April 2019. So, TFTP told Dr B it had closed the claim for card *3568 with lender M and no 
further action would be taken, as it was a duplicate claim.  
In early May 2019, Dr B suggested she would pursue the PPI claim for the credit card ending 
*3568 herself but I haven't seen any evidence that shows that she did. I also haven't seen 
any evidence that Dr B attempted to cancel her agreement with TFTP.  And in late May 2019 
lender 'B' sent Dr B a letter about the claim submitted with the above mentioned LoA. And in 
the letter it had awarded Dr B compensation for the four credit cards, referenced as  *1009, 
*0002, *3568 and *0980. So the claim TFTP had submitted was successful.
Dr B has said that TFTP had done very little work towards the success of her claim. And 
she'd spent hours having to locate and produce the required documentation. But the 
agreement Dr B had with TFTP was on a No win No fee basis. This means TFTP charged 
a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually did. So, 
any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was 
successful, TFTPs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
In the terms and conditions of the agreement TFTP set out its fee as being 24% inclusive 
of VAT. It also gave examples of what the monetary value of the fee would be, and what 
payment its client would get. This showed that the 24% inclusive of VAT fee would be 
applied to the total award made by the lender before it was subject to any income tax 
deduction.
"If a lender takes off the basic rate of tax from a financial award, we will charge our fee 
based on the full amount before tax". 
I know Dr B will be disappointed with my decision. But Im satisfied TFTP were authorised to 
act on her behalf. And the claims TFTP submitted for her were successful. So, TFTP  
can charge Dr B its success fee of 24% inclusive of VAT. 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman