DRN-3236247
The complaint
Mr U complains that Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited mis-sold him a home 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr U had three bikes stolen from outside of his flat. He made a claim to 
Barclays under his home contents policy. Barclays declined the claim saying its standard 
terms didnt cover the loss as the bikes werent being kept in an area specified by the policy. 
It says Mr U didnt opt for specific pedal cycle cover when taking out the policy, which was 
needed to provide cover in the circumstances described.
Mr U doesnt think Barclays made it clear that his bikes werent covered when being kept 
outside of his flat. He says the policy terms refer to outbuildings and a garden. But his flat 
has neither and its misleading to include these elements in the terms for his policy. He 
thinks his policy terms should be tailored to him, and that Barclays mis-sold him the policy. 
Barclays says it listened to the call recording from when the policy was agreed. It says its 
adviser didnt provide the option of selecting pedal cycle cover. Because of this it apologised 
and offered £150 compensation, which it subsequently increased to £250. 
Mr U wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. He thought 
£500 compensation and a refund of premiums was a fair outcome. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He thought Barclays offer of compensation was fair and didnt think it 
need do anymore to resolve Mr Us complaint.  
Mr U didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
My remit is to consider whether Barclays mis-sold Mr Us policy. He has a separate 
complaint concerning his claim being declined, which I wont be considering here.
The policy was agreed in June 2020 over the phone. I have listened to the call recording to 
understand what was discussed. I understand Mr U contacted Barclays after receiving a 
letter saying the policy was cancelled due to a missing payment. Because the policy had 
been cancelled Mr U had to apply for a new policy. The application was completed during 
this call. 
As Mr U had already held a policy with Barclays for several years its adviser based the new 
quote on the cover previously in place. During the call the adviser explains that no 
recommendation about suitability is being made. She says information is provided for Mr U 
to then decide what best suits his needs. The adviser confirms a paper copy of the policy 
documents will be sent to Mr U. He should check this to ensure the policy meets his 
requirements. The adviser also says if he has any questions or wants to add any options not 
included, he should call back to discuss. 
I can see that an information pack was sent to Mr U on the same day he agreed the policy. 
The front page of the information pack includes the following:
Here's what to do next
- Please check this cover still meets your needs. Remember you can
compare different prices and levels of cover offered by alternative
providers.
- Before your policy renews, please make sure you read all your documents. Everything you 
need is enclosed within this pack.
- Remember to call us if there are any changes. This includes changes to your property, 
increases or decreases in the value of any specified items or new items you wish to insure.
- If youre happy with everything, you dont need to do anything else. Your policy will 
automatically renew and your monthly premiums will be collected from the account shown 
overleaf. 
The next page says:
P.S. Your Home Insurance comes with a whole range of optional covers (subject to 
acceptance criteria), which customers find really handy. On page 1 of your renewal schedule 
you can see at a glance those you have selected and those you dont have and might benefit 
from. 
You need to consider if your needs have changed and whether you have the right cover in 
place. Some things to consider:
Are your belongings protected outside of the home? Do you need your bike, gadgets,
sports equipment or personal items such as jewellery covered when out and about?
Our covers are designed to protect things that you take out and about with you as well
as in the home if they are lost, damaged or stolen. So if you take personal items
cover and lose a stone from your engagement ring on holiday or have your handbag
stolen youll be covered for their replacement or repair up to £2,500 or the
unspecified personal items limit if lower.
The renewal schedule section on page four includes a list of the cover Mr U had chosen, as 
well as the options he hadnt. Under Covers you havent chosen that are available to buy 
at an additional cost, there is an info-graphic that shows bike cover isnt included. 
I think its clear Mr U was made aware he should read the policy terms to ensure the cover 
met his needs. He was provided with a paper copy of the policy information to do this. The 
policy makes clear that Bike cover is an optional extra, which Mr U hadnt chosen. I think 
its reasonable to expect Mr U to have noticed this when reading the policy documents. 
During the call Barclays adviser says that theft is covered for items in the home. The adviser 
didnt ask Mr U specifically if he wanted bike cover so this would be covered outside of his 
home. But this wasnt mentioned as a requirement by Mr U either. 
The policy terms say:These covers insure your possessions in your property, outbuildings and garden against 
loss or damage.   
I have thought about Mr Us view that specifying cover for outbuildings and a garden, when 
he doesnt have either, is misleading. 
Although I acknowledge his point, I dont agree. Mr U knows he doesnt have outbuildings or 
a garden. So, in his case the cover provided is limited to loss or damage that occurs in his 
property.
Barclays offered Mr U £250 compensation as an apology because its adviser didnt 
specifically mention the optional bike cover. I think its offer was fair in the circumstances. But 
I think Mr U received sufficient information to easily check whether the policy met his needs. 
I have also thought about Mr Us request for a refund of premiums. I understand his point 
that he didnt have the cover he expected. But he has still benefitted from cover having been 
in place since June 2020, should he have needed to make a claim. For this reason, I dont 
think its fair for Barclays to provide a refund of premiums.  
In summary, although I acknowledge Mr Us view that the policy terms should only contain 
information applicable to him, I dont think hes shown that the policy terms are unclear or 
that he was mis-sold the policy. Barclays was clear that no recommendations about 
suitability were being given, and he should read the policy documents to ensure it met his 
requirements. Because of this, and for the reasoning given above, I dont think Barclays mis-
sold Mr U his policy. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman