DRN-3284017
The complaint
Ms S complains about Thompson Taraz Managers Limiteds (TTML) actions as fund 
manager of an EIS.
What happened
On advice of a third-party adviser, Ms S invested £100,000 into an Earthworm EIS in March 
2018. At the time Ms S invested, the fund was managed by TTML. Ms S says that her life 
savings were lost when the EIS failed and each investee company went into liquidation.  Ms 
S says:
i. The inter-dependence of the investee companies was not brought to her 
attention and had she been aware she would not have invested;
ii. The risks were not properly highlighted;
iii. The dependence of the companies on government subsidies and the 
consequences of withdrawal of that support was not made clear;
iv. The literature failed to address a mitigation plan;
v. TTML have not provided full disclosure about their due diligence;
vi. TTML failures as fund manager led to the investment failing;
vii. There should be a wider investigation into the directors of the third party that 
advised TTML, who went onto set up other businesses.
TTML explain that it was the discretionary investment fund manager from 31 January 2017 
to 20 September 2018 only. TTML instructed a third-party to undertake due diligence on 
each investee company and to prepare investment proposals, this information was then 
assessed by TTML and a decision was reached as to the viability of investment. Each 
investee company was in the industry sector set out in the Information Memorandum (IM) 
and met the EIS qualification status. The investee companies performed and had a good 
outlook during the time TTML was investment manager. It appeared that in or around 2019, 
a third-party heat and power facility was impacted by legislative changes within the industry, 
which negatively impacted the investee companies. However, industry sector risks were 
addressed in the IM.
TTML say that it was not responsible for promoting the investment but the risks with the EIS 
were clearly set out in the IM. It was a high-risk investment and Ms S had relied upon the 
professional advice from a financial adviser when making the investment. TTML highlight the 
conflicts of interest policy and highlight that the IM expressly stated the investment manager 
would be hands on involved in the operation and management of the investee companies. It 
was unclear which businesses Ms S was claiming were interdependent but working 
relationships began after TMML had ceased to be fund manager. All these risks factors were 
matters for Ms Ss adviser to have considered. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. She thought that 
TTML had carried out adequate due diligence and noted the extent of information that had 
been considered by the third-party adviser and TTML. She noted that Ms S was entitled to 
receive six monthly performance reports and there was no requirement for copies of all due 
diligence to be provided to her. Our investigator highlighted that as TTML was a 
discretionary investment manager, it was for it to decide which companies to invest in and 
TTML had provided evidence to show that each of the seven companies had advance 
assurance of EIS qualifying status and the companies operated in waste/or recycling in line 
with the strategy in the IM. Our investigator noted one company had debt obligations but 
these were discharged before Ms S invested. TTML was not responsible for debentures 
taken out after it ceased being fund manager.
Our investigator also noted that the EIS investment was high risk and Ms S would have been 
aware that her funds were being invested in one industry sector only. This meant Ms S 
should have been aware that all her capital was at risk. Also, the IM did identify the 
possibility of conflicts of interest policy and set out a policy.
Ms S doesnt agree with the outcome. She maintains that the investment failed because of 
TTMLs shortcomings.
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is helpful to explain at the outset that this decision only considers the role of TTML 
as discretionary investment manager between the period 31 January 2017 to 20 September 
2018, TTML was not responsible for management of the investment after this time. I have 
considered that TTML was not responsible for the content of the promotional material (IM) 
and it was not responsible for the recommendation to invest. It was for Ms Ss adviser to 
consider whether the recommendation was suitable for Ms Ss needs, considering her 
attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss. I note Ms S asked for a wider investigation, 
but as our investigator has explained, our service does not have any regulatory or 
disciplinary powers, so were not able to direct a business how to operate or make industry 
changes. 
I note that Ms S has said she did not receive a copy of the IM. I find it is more likely than not 
that she is mistaken. Ive seen a copy of the investment application form, completed by Ms S 
at the time, in which Ms S signed to confirm she had read the IM and understood the risks 
involved, in particular, Ms S signed to confirm that she had read and understood the risk 
sections of the IM. Further, Ms S confirmed that she had received advice from an adviser, so 
it is reasonable to consider that the risks of the investment had been explained to her. In 
signing the Investors Agreement, Ms S agreed to the terms that fund would be managed in 
accordance with the agreement.
Discretionary investment manager
The role of TTML was set out in the IM. Broadly, it was to invest into EIS qualifying 
companies which carried on business in recycling, environmental and/or waste sectors on 
Ms Ss behalf and the investment would be made, in common on behalf of all the Investors 
in the Fund in accordance with the Investment Objective. As TTML was the discretionary investment manager of an Alternative Investment Fund, the 
focus was on investment in line with the objective for the fund, not on the basis of suitability 
for any particular investor (question 2.43 of PERG 16.2). So, it was for TTML to make 
investment selections, independently considering due diligence and investment proposals 
provided by a third-party adviser, to monitor investments and provide six monthly updates.
It was for TTML to make legitimate commercial decisions with respect to the EIS, without 
recourse to Ms S, during the period 31 January 2017 to 20 September 2018. Whilst it is clear 
that the investment went on to underperform in or around 2019 to 2020, it isnt fair and 
reasonable for me to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight. Ive therefore 
focused on the period of time over which TTML was the fund manager.
Its common ground that Ms Ss funds were invested into seven investee companies. I am 
satisfied, from the information provided, that each met the investment objective of being EIS 
qualifying and being companies that operated in the recycling, environmental and/or waste 
sectors. Ms S has suggested there must have been failings by TTML because the investee 
companies failed, but no specific shortcomings have been raised, beyond concerns about 
the extent of due diligence addressed below. At the time Ms Ss funds were invested in 
March 2018, TTML say the outlook was positive and up to September 2018, things were 
progressing positively. I havent seen anything to show this wasnt the case. The information 
provided shows that negative commentary began later in 2019.
Due Diligence
As set out in the IM, it was for TTML as fund manager, to make an independent assessment 
of the information collated and provided by the third-party adviser. It was for TMML to 
incorporate a due diligence process that took account of the funds strategy, objectives and 
risk profile.
TTML appointed a third-party adviser with expertise in the industry sector. In my view it 
wasnt unreasonable for TTML to place reliance on a third-party advisers selection of 
investments, but the final assessment was for TTML. At the time, the third-party adviser was 
said to have managed over £35million of investors capital and overseas investments in a 
range of sectors from waste management and recycling to renewable energy and power 
generation, notably the adviser had built a recycling facility before. So, in my view, the 
adviser had appropriate industry experience. Further, there was transparency about this 
process in the IM and Investors Agreement, clause 5.2 set out that, amongst other things 
TTML would have regard to the advice of the adviser when performing its management 
services.
In respect of each underlying investee company, Ive seen that an assessment was made of 
core information surrounding the companies financial affairs and forecasts, the eligibility for 
EIS qualifying status, meetings were held with directors, anti-money laundering checks were 
undertaken, advisory agreements for investment were provided and any potential conflicts of 
interest were highlighted at the outset. Copies of core documents were provided to TTML. 
This information is in line with the level of assessment I would expect to see. Theres no 
regulatory requirement for a fund of this type to disclose reports to Ms S. Given that there 
had been an assessment as to viability of the companies by a third-party adviser with 
industry knowledge, that the companies were operating within the industry sector set out in 
the IM and had EIS qualifying status, theres nothing to show that it was unreasonable for 
TTML to approve these companies for investment at the time.To be clear, the fact that the companies went on to fail is not indicative itself of a failing in the 
due diligence process. Its important to put into context that EISs are non-mainstream, 
complex, illiquid, specialised and speculative investments, where there is always a real risk 
of losing the original, capital investment. These were start-up companies where the risk of 
failure was higher; it was this higher level of risk which justified the availability of generous 
tax reliefs. 
Risk
Ms S has said she was unaware this was a risky investment. However, it was clear from the 
risk warnings within the IM that the investment was higher risk. Im persuaded its likely that 
Ms S knew or ought to have known that all her capital was at risk, the IM said, the value of 
each investment made by the fund may fall and may even lose all of its value. In any event, 
if Ms S believes the investment exposed her to more risk than she wanted to take, that is a 
matter to be directed to her adviser, who recommended the investment. 
And whilst TTML wasnt responsible for the content of the promotional material it is relevant 
that the risks with this particular EIS were clearly set out in the IM and particular the risk of 
investing in one industry sector:
recycling, waste management and environmental sectors  The Investee Companies 
Revenue streams may be reduced by changes in legislation affecting subsidies, gate fees, 
landfill tax etc
So, I dont agree that this information wasnt provided to Ms S and again the lack of 
diversification was a risk factor for her adviser to consider.
Interdependency/conflict of interest
Ms S maintains that the companies were interdependent. However, as our investigator has 
highlighted, Ms S would have known that all her funds were being invested into one industry 
sector, where there was a risk that any legislative changes or pricing issues could have a 
similar impact across all the investee companies. Im not persuaded that the extent to which 
investee companies relied upon a third-party power plant meant that TTMLs investment 
decision was unreasonable. It is unfortunate that the combined heat and power facility relied 
upon by the investee companies was affected by legislative changes but Ive seen that these 
failures occurred after funds had been invested into the EIS and after TTML ceased to act as 
fund manager.
Investment was within a narrow industry sector and its relevant that that the impact of 
legislative changes that later affected the performance of the investment model were matters 
outside TTMLs control. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold TTML responsible for 
events post September 2018.
Ms S has raised concern that directors from the advisory firm had links to some of the 
investee companies. Ive seen that in respect of each investment, the third-party adviser 
listed any potential conflicts of interest for TTMLs consideration when providing their 
recommendations. The IM explained that TTML would seek to ensure that investment was 
only made into companies with an independent chairman and Ive seen that the detail of the 
conflicts of interest policy was set out.
I understand Mrs Ss disappointment with the situation she now finds herself in but for the 
reasons given, Im not persuaded it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. And 
whilst I understand Mrs Ss desire to ascertain the root cause of the failure of each investee 
company, that isnt something Id reasonably expect TTML to be able to answer given their management of the fund ended in September 2018.  As our investigator has suggested it 
may be that Ms S is eligible for loss relief.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman