DRN-1751055
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs D. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in June 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs D was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. This is because I dont think AXA set out clearly 
enough the costs and benefits of the PPI policy, when it was sold to Mrs D. This means she 
didnt have the chance to make an informed choice. I think, in her circumstances, this would 
have made a difference to whether she took PPI. Her work benefits that she says were 
6 months full and 6 months half pay, are likely to have made her think the cost of the PPI 
was not good value for her. 
I think Mrs D has lost out as a result. AXA has questioned whether Mrs D would have 
received the work benefits she says she had. It has referenced employment terms. But I 
havent seen enough that would lead me to conclude that these terms would have related to 
Mrs Ds employment at the time it sold her PPI. I have also not seen anything else that 
would suggest Mrs D had anything other than what she said she had. She has been 
consistent to our service about her work benefits throughout her complaint. So I uphold her 
complaint for the reasons I have given above. 
fair compensation
AXA France IARD should put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs D would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
 So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs D owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs D made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it 
owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs D would have 
owed when she closed her account, from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month without PPI     
Mrs D paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs D wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
 
D. AXA should tell Mrs D what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman