DRN-1577500
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lake Insurance SE ("GLI") unfairly declined a claim he made 
under his Furniture Guard warranty.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr S bought two sofas from Company A. Alongside these Mr S took out 
a five-year Furniture Guard warranty  which was provided by GLI.
Mr S contacted GLI in October 2019 as he said his sofas had become very soft. It appointed 
a technician to assess the furniture and it declined the claim, saying the issues he'd raised 
were as a result of general usage over time which was to be expected. As a result it said 
there was no cover under the warranty for this issue.
Mr S disagreed, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and didn't uphold it. She said the warranty did provide cover for structural defects 
caused by a loss of resilience to foam, but not for the general loss of resilience of the foam. 
And having looked at the technical report provided, she said there was no evidence of a 
manufacturing failure or defect within the foam. So she said GLI had acted fairly and in line 
with the terms of the warranty when declining the claim.
Mr S disagreed, he didn't think it was fair to decline the claim based on the technician's 
opinion alone. And he said he had little faith in Company A and GLI as he was only a year 
into his five-year warranty. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr S' warranty covers him in the event of certain perils. These include accidental damage, 
stains, or structural defects. And it specifies it would cover a structural defect if this was 
caused by a loss of resilience to foam.
So I've carefully reviewed GLI's technical report  which Mr S has seen  to decide 
whether it fairly declined this claim. The report finds no structural fault with the sofa springs 
or fill material, or elsewhere. This suggests to me there is no structural defect, and in turn 
there's no peril for this warranty to cover.
Ive been provided with nothing else to persuade me otherwise. So while I appreciate Mr S 
will be disappointed, it follows that I'm satisfied GLI has declined this claim fairly, and I'm not 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman