DRN-3129343
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) havent credited his account with a 
cash deposit he made.
 
The complaint was brought to our service on Mr Rs behalf by a representative. But as the 
account is in Mr Rs name, Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
In early August 2020 Mr R went into a Barclays branch to make a payment to his local 
council. Mr R says he took cash and wanted to make the payment directly to the council.
 
Mr R says he was asked to give his debit card, along with the cash, to a member of staff 
behind the counter.
 
But, as Mr R didnt have the account details for his local council, he was unable to complete 
the payment. So, he deposited the cash into his own account, for which he says he received 
a receipt confirming the transaction. Mr R made the payment to the council on 10 August 
2020.
When Mr R received his bank statement, he noticed the cash deposit hed made hadnt been 
credited to his account. Mr R contacted Barclays and asked them to investigate. Mr R told 
Barclays he thought either a staff member in branch had stolen his funds or that theyd been 
paid into an incorrect account. Mr R couldnt remember the exact date that he made the 
deposit, but believed it was made sometime between 3 August and 7 August. Later Mr R 
clarified he thought it was most likely to have been during the hours of 10am and 12pm on 
one of those days.
Barclays investigated, but couldnt find any evidence that Mr R had deposited the funds as 
he claimed. So, Barclays declined to credit Mr Rs account. As he was unhappy with 
Barclays response, Mr R brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt that 
Barclays had made reasonable efforts to try and locate the funds, but there was no evidence 
to show Mr R made the deposit.
 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators findings, saying:
- He didnt enter his debit card into the terminal when he attempted to deposit the 
cash. Instead, he handed his card and cash to the cashier, which he doesnt believe 
is the normal process.
- The CCTV footage from the branch should be reviewed, as it would show Mr R 
making the deposit.
As Mr R disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
 
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr R says that he was provided with a receipt for his deposit, but he didnt retain the receipt. 
So, Ive had to look at the other evidence we do have.
Barclays have provided evidence that shows no significant discrepancy on the tills or the 
self-service devices for the branch Mr R attended during the dates Mr R gave them. If the 
cash was taken and the deposit wasnt made, Id expect this to show by the tills not 
balancing. 
Also, Barclays has detailed the process for taking cash deposits in branch, which includes 
swiping the customers debit card using PINsentry. This creates an electronic record of the 
transaction and generates a receipt that includes the date, time, account details and the 
amount. So, based on Mr Rs testimony that he handed his card to a staff member (and 
didnt enter it into a terminal), I think its more likely than not there wouldve been an 
electronic record created either from his card being swiped or from the receipt being 
generated. However, there is no evidence of an electronic record for a cash deposit of 
£1,242 either going into Mr Rs account or any other account, during the dates that Mr R 
says he was in the branch.
Im therefore satisfied that the cash was not recorded as being received on Barclays 
systems and wasnt incorrectly applied to another account with Barclays.
Mr R says that he didnt enter his card and PIN in the card terminal. However, as Ive already 
explained, I think its most likely that Barclays wouldve swiped his card as part of the deposit 
process. But even if they hadnt, it wouldnt change the outcome, as I dont believe there is 
sufficient evidence to reach the conclusion that Mr R made the deposit.
 
Mr R feels that had Barclays reviewed the CCTV footage from the branch, they wouldve 
seen him making the deposit. However, Barclays says its unreasonable to expect them to 
watch over 35 hours of CCTV footage, as initially Mr R told them the deposit was made 
sometime during a five-day period. Mr R later clarified that it was most likely he wouldve 
been in the branch between 10am and 12pm  which wouldve still involved 10 hours of 
footage. But Barclays not providing this evidence doesnt automatically mean that Mr Rs 
complaint is upheld. As Ive already set out there is insufficient evidence to satisfy me that 
Mr R made the deposit. And its worth noting that if Mr R had retained the receipt, he 
wouldve had clear evidence of his deposit. Without either piece of evidence, Ive had to 
reach my conclusion based on what we have been given by both parties.
Mr R has also suggested a member of staff may have stolen his money. Our remit doesnt 
cover a criminal investigation which is what Mr R is suggesting, however I think its unlikely 
that a staff member wouldve given Mr R a receipt for his deposit in that circumstance as the 
receipt wouldve proven hed made a deposit that wasnt accounted for on his account.
 Having considered everything carefully, Im not satisfied I can fairly reach the conclusion that 
Mr R made the cash deposit. I realise that Mr R is going to be very disappointed, but in these 
circumstances, I cant fairly ask Barclays to credit his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman