DRN-2871855
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) were wrong to set up a repayment 
plan for him. He says that wasnt the correct solution for his needs and he also says they 
were wrong to record a missed payment and the arrangement to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Mr W spoke with Barclays in September 2020 they completed an assessment of his 
income and expenditure together and agreed a repayment plan over the next 12 months. To 
qualify for that plan, it was explained to Mr W that hed need to make two qualifying 
payments in October and November of £120 each. The details of this agreement were set 
out to Mr W in a letter sent later that month. The letter said:
While we're waiting for the two qualifying payments, we'll continue to let the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) know about any outstanding arrears you have on your
account. This will affect your credit file, but once your repayment plan is up and running,
we'll update the CRAs. This will still affect your credit file, but it will show that you're
working with us to repay what you owe.
I think the implications of entering into the plan were clear and that Barclays had shown a 
sympathetic and reasonable approach to Mr Ws financial difficulties. Theyd listened to his 
explanation about what his income was likely to be when overtime had been taken into 
account and had come up with a reasonable arrangement in the circumstances. I would 
agree that whilst the arrangement to pay would be recorded on Mr Ws credit file, it was 
preferable to a default being recorded on his account.
The late payment marker refers to one of those qualifying payments where, as Ive already 
reported, Barclays had informed Mr W that they would  continue to let the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) know.
I was very sorry to hear the details of the family difficulties Mr W and his partner were 
experiencing around 2017/18 but I cant see that Barclays were aware of those issues and I 
dont think it would therefore be fair to suggest they had done anything wrong.
I understand that there were some delays in Barclays providing a response, but I dont think 
there has been any financial impact on Mr W and, in the circumstances, I am persuaded that 
the £100 compensation offered by Barclays was reasonable.
Im not therefore asking Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman