DRN-3863354
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about their home insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because it 
declined their claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T found roof tiles on their drive when they returned home on 18 February 2022. 
There had been a storm and they found that the covering of the flat roof at the rear of their 
home had lifted and landed on the pitched, tiled roof. They called Ageas but it couldnt assist 
at the time. They had a roofer look at it on 19 February 2022 but weather conditions meant a 
temporary repair wasnt done until 21 February 2022. In the meantime rain came into the 
property and a bedroom ceiling collapsed. Ageas attended the property about a week later. 
Following a report being made to it by its attending representative, Ageas declined the claim.
Ageas felt the flat roof covering hadnt been properly secured  that if it had been it wouldnt 
have been lifted by the wind during the storm. It didnt think tiles had been damaged by the 
felt and thought the internal damage had been ongoing over a period of time. Mr and Mrs T 
complained to us.
Our Investigator felt the storm had likely caused the damage claimed for. So she said Ageas 
should settle the claim and pay Mr and Mrs T £400 compensation.
Mr and Mrs T indicated they were happy with the findings. Ageas asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. The complaint was passed to me and I took a different view from 
our Investigator. I felt that the complaint shouldnt be upheld as, in my view, Ageas decision 
to decline liability for the damage sustained at Mr and Mrs Ts home was fair and 
reasonable. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my findings:
Assessing a complaint about storm damage
This service has an established approach to assessing complaints about storm damage 
claims which have been declined. We ask three questions and, if the answer to any question 
is no, it is most likely that the claim was declined fairly and reasonably by the insurer. Which 
means its likely that the complaint about the decline wont be upheld.
Was there a storm?
I think there most likely was a storm on 18 February 2022. Ageas found the windspeed was 
1 mile an hour slower than the cut-off detailed on the policy. But windspeeds at different 
locations do vary and Mr Ts home is not at the same location as the weather station which 
recorded maximum wind gusts of 54mph. Further, our Investigator did find that the 
windspeed recorded at a different weather station, also situated near Mr and Mrs Ts home, 
was much higher. So Im satisfied that at storm likely occurred on 18 February 2022. So, 
regarding the flat and pitched, tiled roof damage, Ill go on to consider the next question.
But the internal damage reported to Mr and Mrs Ts home, including to its contents, occurred 
on 19 February 2022. On that day rain started coming in and, on the evening, a bedroom 
ceiling collapsed. Imagery provided by Mr T suggests this was a sudden event, there was no 
sign water had been coming in before. But Ive checked the weather data for that day, and 
there werent storm conditions occurring in the region of Mr and Mr Ts postcode. And 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy doesnt benefit from accidental damage cover. So I think Ageas 
decline of liability for this damage, was fair and reasonable.
Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
As the flat and tiled roof were damaged on the day there was a storm (18 February 2021), 
Ive considered whether the damage in question is typical of that caused by a storm. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs T, the answer to that question in respect of the flat roof is  no, 
its not.
The covering of a flat roof being torn off is not typical of damage caused by a storm. That is 
because with a well fitted, maintained flat roof, wind would have nothing to get under in 
order to cause the material to lift. A well fitted and maintained roof is fitted flush to the 
surface and sealed and/or secured around the edges. So wind, even storm wind, cant 
usually get underneath in order the sort of damage reported by Mr and Mrs T can be caused. 
I know Mr and Mrs T had maintained the roof in 2021  but that doesnt show it was secured 
around the edges. And I cant see how, if it was properly secured, the wind, even storm force 
wind, would have been able to cause this damage. I think Ageas decline of liability for this 
damage was fair and reasonable.
That is very different to tiles on a roof, the leading edges of which are not sealed and are 
subject to the forces of the wind. So damaged and/or lifted tiles are considered, on the face 
of it, to be damage typically caused by a storm. As such Ive considered the damage to roof 
tiles in light of our third storm question. 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Mr and Mrs T reported that tiles were lifted by the felt. And then that some tiles were cracked 
by the dislodged and moving felt, some on the back of the roof and some on the front  with 
the felt having come to rest over the ridge tiles, spanning both pitches of the roof.  Ageas 
said it didnt see any evidence of dislodged tiles  and tiles which were broken had likely 
suffered damage over time by normal wear and tear.
Ive seen photos before the temporary repairs were done which show that tiles at the edge of 
the flat roof, at the base of the side pitched roof, were uneven. But I dont see that any were 
missing, entirely out of place or broken. So I can understand why Ageas didnt think any had 
been dislodged. I think if the storm had caused damaged to these tiles by impacting the felt 
into them as it was lifted away from the roof, the damage would have been more significant  
with these tiles being substantially moved from their original position and/or broken. 
I know Mr and Mrs T believe that the tiles on their pitched roof were damaged by this storm, 
when the winds caused the large and heavy piece of felt to impact the roof. The contractor 
who completed the temporary repairs for Mr and Mrs T said that the tiles were broken in this 
way. But Ageas expert has said that the tiles on the roof were suffering normal wear and 
tear; explained as spalling, where the weather acts on tiles over time and causes them to 
break. Only if its most likely that these tiles were damaged by the storm, could I uphold this 
complaint. As both parties have provided conflicting opinions, Ive looked at the other 
available details to determine if Mr and Mrs Ts view, as supported by their expert is, in my 
view, what is most likely to have occurred.
Mr and Mrs T have shown that they maintained their roof in 2021. Detail of that work 
included replacement of 15 broken tiles. Which means that tiles on the roof were subject to wear and tear  they were broken, in need of replacement and werent the subject of an 
insurance claim. And it was then quite a long period before the storm and the further broken 
tiles were found  nine months. So I think that the fact of the maintenance in 2021 doesnt 
mean that the most likely cause of the damage in 2022 was the storm, rather than a wear 
and tear issue. 
I further note that Mr and Mrs T have argued that the broken edge of the damaged tiles 
seems fresh. I agree that, in the photos Mr and Mrs T highlighted, the exposed tile surface is 
bright and seemingly free from contaminants. But, at best, that only means that the break 
occurred in relative proximity to the storm, not that the storm is the most likely cause of the 
break. And Im mindful that the broken edges visible in the photos look somewhat uneven, 
rather than being a clean straight break  uneven breaking being a sign of tiles damaged 
over time by the weather.  
Having carefully considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that its most likely 
that the storm was the cause of the broke tiles on the roof of Mr and Mrs Ts home. It does 
remain possible that is what happened. But as I said above, for me to say Ageas acted 
unfairly and unreasonably, Id have to be satisfied it was more than a possibility, that it was, 
most likely. As Im not, I find that Ageas decline of liability for the damage is fair and 
reasonable. As such, I dont intend to make Ageas do anything differently or pay any 
compensation.
Mr T, replying on behalf of himself and Mrs T, said he felt I hadnt followed a standardised 
process in decision making because my view was different to that of the Investigator, even 
though no new evidence had been provided by Ageas.
Mr T said an internet search shows no end of reports of flat roofs being damaged and torn 
off in storms. He said this, along with trees being blown down, seems to be the most 
common damage caused during storms. Mr T said it is strange that I disagree with that 
abundance of proof. He noted that most warranties are void during storm periods. He 
explained his concern that this puts homeowners in a very bleak position as theyll have no 
protection against damage.
Mr T said he felt it would be very easy to discount lots of damage as not typically caused by 
a storm. Because things shouldnt happen, like chimneys falling down, for example, but 
sometimes they do. Mr T, having checked previous decisions issued by this service, said 
I had even stated in a previous decision that flat roofs can sometimes be damaged during 
storms. And Mr T explained that his search of our previous decisions had been limited due to 
an error on the page. He said he felt he would otherwise have found many more decisions 
that supported his position.
Further, Mr T said that my provisional findings on his complaint hadnt made any link 
between the presumed (by Ageas) poor condition of his roof and the damage. And he said 
hed shown the timbers werent rotten. Also that his roof was well maintained and, obviously, 
during the last maintenance work, the roofing contractor would have checked the flat roof 
was secure. He felt it was unfair for me to have assumed it wasnt. And Ageas had only 
looked at matters from the perspective of the roof ten days after it had been damaged, 
during which time it had been open to the elements. Mr T said Ageas surveyor had called 
him after the report had been issued and said it did not reflect his findings, theyd been 
changed by Ageas own team.
Regarding the dislodged tiles  Mr T provided a photo showing tiles the day after the storm. 
He said he hoped that resolved my concern that I hadnt seen any that were missing, 
entirely out of place or broken. He explained the tiles were reset temporarily and have since 
been fully restored.Turning to the broken tiles  Mr T explained that they found 10 broken tiles in all when the 
permanent repairs were done. He said the tiles replaced during previous maintenance had 
been damaged due to the impact of a cricket ball. The contractor who completed the 
permanent repairs confirmed the pitched roof is in good condition, and he was able to walk 
on it without causing damage. Mr T, therefore, thinks its unreasonable to say the roof tiles 
are suffering severe wear and tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs T were upset by my provisional decision, differing as it did to 
the view issued by our Investigator. But I can assure Mr and Mrs T that it is sometimes the 
case, when complaints are considered by this service, and which progress to a decision by 
an Ombudsman, that the likely outcome for the complaint can change. As the parties are 
advised at the point the complaint is put forward for consideration by an Ombudsman  the 
Ombudsman is tasked with reviewing the whole file, and deciding what they think about the 
evidence available. On occasion that can mean that the Ombudsman takes a different view 
of the evidence from that previously reached by our Investigator. And, when that happens, 
as the parties are also advised when the complaint is put forwards for the Ombudsmans 
consideration, the parties will be notified of the change and given a chance to respond. 
Which was done here by the issue of my provisional decision. 
I note Mr Ts search of the internet. But internet results are not always reliable sources of 
information. In any event though, flat roofs being damaged during storms is not the key 
question here. And nor is it, can a flat roof sometimes be damaged by a storm? The key 
question is, is a flat roof covering being wholly torn off typical of damage caused by a storm? 
And I remain of the view that the answer to that is, no, it is not. Which means that, in line 
with this services approach to considering storm complaints, this issue does not progress to 
an assessment of the available evidence about the condition of the roof, the views of the 
experts (even if one was reportedly changed) and whether its most likely that the storm 
caused the damage in question.   
I have seen the positioning of the tiles after the felt blew away, as shown in the photo Mr T 
has referred to in his reply. Some of those tiles do seem slightly out of position, they certainly 
are not sat in a straight, neat line. And that is exactly what I considered when making my 
provisional findings. And I remain of the view that the tiles are not entirely out of place, 
broken or missing.
I appreciate Mr Ts explanation for the tiles previously damaged and repaired on his roof. But 
even if I accept that when maintenance was done on the roof, no tiles were suffering from 
wear and tear  around nine months, including several winter months, still passed before the 
incident at the heart of this claim occurred. So wear and tear damage could have occurred in 
that time. The maintenance wouldnt have prevented that normal deterioration from 
occurring. And the way that deterioration occurs means that not every tile will be affected in 
exactly the same way, at exactly the same time. So the fact that the contractor completing 
permanent repairs was able to stand on some tiles without causing damage and did not 
recommend the whole roof was replaced or retiled, doesnt mean that some tiles werent, or 
arent being, affected by gradual wear and tear.   
I appreciate that Mr T might have liked to review more of the decisions previously issued by 
this service about flat roof storm complaints. But Id like to assure Mr T that whilst it can 
sometimes be useful to see previous decisions to gain a level of understanding about how this service approaches certain issues, no decision sets a precedent for another complaint. 
That is because each case is taken on its own merits. Just as Ive assessed the merits of 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint here. Whilst I appreciate the disappointment my findings and this 
final decision will cause Mr and Mrs T, I am satisfied that Ageas decline of their claim, on 
this occasion, was fair and reasonable.
   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Ageas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman