DRN-3751359
The complaint
Mrs B disputes a number of transactions which took place on an account held at West 
Bromwich Building Society (WBBS) and is unhappy that it wont share information with her.
What happened
Mrs B held a joint account with one of her sisters. Mrs B asked WBBS for information about 
the account, including the application form and evidence of how certain transactions were 
carried out, but it said that the terms of the account meant that both account holders had to 
consent to any requests in relation to the account. In its response to her complaint it did, 
however, offer £50 in compensation to acknowledge the fact Mrs B had to ask several times 
for some of the information it could provide.
Mrs B referred the complaint to our service, but one of our investigators agreed with WBBS 
that it couldnt provide the information that Mrs B asked for. Mrs B said that she disputed 
having carried out some of the transactions that shed requested information about. Our 
investigator said that it was evident that there was a dispute between the account holders 
and that we wouldnt be able to reach a fair outcome without having both account holders 
joined to the complaint. 
Mrs B disagreed with this assessment. In summary she said:
- WBBS werent being consistent as theyd provided information about another 
account while having only the consent of one of the joint account holders. 
- WBBS ought to be able to send her the withdrawal slips with the other account 
holders details redacted.
- WBBS could ask the other account holder for permission to release the information. 
- We couldnt be satisfied that shed authorised the transactions in dispute, without 
knowing what her signature looked like.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the account application form and Im satisfied that it clearly states:
We authorise the Society to accept only the following for all purposes connected with this 
account
The application form required the applicants to either choose All signatures or One 
signature. All signatures has been selected.
I think that all purposes includes the provision of information about the account including 
the application form and withdrawal slips. So, I dont think WBBS have made a mistake by 
refusing to provide this information (redacted or otherwise).
In any case, its evident that at the heart of this complaint is a dispute between Mrs B and 
the other account holder about transactions which took place on the account. Thats not a 
dispute that I can fairly decide without the consent of both account holders. So, to be clear, I 
make no finding on whether any disputed transactions were authorised by Mrs B or not. 
Mrs B suggests that the other account holder may have benefitted from the transactions 
which took place. So, its fairly clear that she would not want to be joined to this complaint. 
Neither does it seem likely that shed give consent to WBBS to release information about the 
account  regardless of whether WBBS made this request or Mrs B. 
Finally, I cannot comment on WBBSs actions in relation to another account and, even if it 
had made a mistake in releasing information to another account holder, that doesnt mean a 
precedent has been created and I could instruct WBBS to release information to Mrs B. Id 
be merely asking it to make the same mistake again.
I note that WBBS have offered Mrs B £50 in compensation to reflect the fact she had to ask 
on several occasions for information that it could provide. I agree this would have caused 
some inconvenience to Mrs B  but I think the primary cause of her frustration is not being 
provided with the information that still hasnt been disclosed, so I think £50 is a fair offer of 
compensation.
My final decision
West Bromwich Building Society has already offered £50 to settle this complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So, my decision is that West Bromwich Building Society should pay Mrs B the £50 offered, if 
it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman