DRN-1674135
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account.
What happened
Mr T had a current account with Barclays.
In March 2019, Mr T received a payment of £150 into his current account. In June 2019, 
Barclays were contacted by another bank which said its customer hadnt authorised the 
£150 payment into Mr Ts account. Following this Barclays decided to review Mr Ts account. 
Whilst it completed its review Barclays restricted Mr Ts account. It then decided to close Mr 
Ts account immediately in July 2019.
Mr T says he hasnt done anything wrong and as a result of Barclays actions he is having 
trouble opening another bank account. He said the £150 was paid into his account after hed 
given his uncle his account details so that a friend of his uncles could use his account. Mr T 
said he then withdrew the money and gave it to his uncle. Hes explained that at the time he 
was expecting his student loan to be paid into his account. So, the block and account being 
closed made things particularly stressful for him.
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ts account. And 
had done so in order to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. Mr T wasnt happy with this 
response. So, he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. He said Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had reviewed and then closed Mr Ts account. Mr T disagreed. And 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr T has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint. 
I appreciate that hes upset that Barclays blocked his account and that this caused him 
inconvenience. I can also understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as 
he was expecting his student loan to be paid into his account, which was obviously very 
important to him. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has 
done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Barclays has said that Mr Ts access to his accounts was blocked to meet these 
requirements.
Ill deal first with Barclays decision to restrict Mr Ts access to his account while it 
investigated the concerns expressed to it by the other bank. Banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their customers when money has been sent to the wrong account or 
they believe fraud has taken place. And this is what happened here. The other bank told 
Barclays the payment of £150 to Mr Ts account was fraudulent. Having looked at the 
information Barclays received, I dont believe it was unreasonable for Barclays to restrict 
Mr Ts account. This enabled it to consider how best to react to the information it had 
received from the other bank. The terms and conditions also permit Barclays to review and 
account.
I then turn to Barclays decision to close Mr Ts account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide banking services to a particular customer. I know Mr T feels Barclays 
has treated him unfairly when it closed his account and hes struggled to open another 
account since. But unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say a 
bank must keep a customer.
Banks should however give a customer reasonable notice about its intention to close an 
account. Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account, Barclays could close the 
account by giving him 60 days notice. But it can be less. And under certain circumstances 
Barclays can close an account immediately.
Having looked at the circumstances of this complaint and the information Barclays relied on 
to close Mr Ts account, Im satisfied that Barclays were entitled to close his account without 
notice, given the concerns it had about how Mr T was operating his account. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Mr T inconvenience, I cant say Barclays has treated him unfairly when it 
closed his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman