DRN-2237305
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
What happened
In 2001 Mr C took out TMPP cover to protect his mortgage repayments. The policy included 
PPI in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
When Mr C complained to Halifax about the PPI, Halifax didnt agree the policy had been 
mis-sold to him.
Mr C was unhappy with this response and so we investigated. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend upholding the complaint.  
Mr C disagrees. He mainly complains that the mortgage advisor he spoke to told him he had 
to take out PPI because of his age at the time otherwise his mortgage application would be 
cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I wouldnt expect Mr C to remember exactly what was discussed when he took out PPI so 
long ago. And what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely.
I think that Halifax made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it out. 
Heres why I say this.
Halifax cant show me anything signed by Mr C that shows how he took out PPI. But, we 
already know from looking at other cases what the process was when Halifax sold TMPP 
and weve seen examples of the paperwork Mr C wouldve had to fill in. Ive no reason to 
think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales process so I think its likely that PPI 
was discussed and recommended for him. 
There were further TMPP elements that Mr C couldve bought as part of the TMPP package 
which he didnt take out. 
So, whilst I can understand he mightve forgotten this now, at the time I think hed have 
known it was up to him to choose if he wanted to add PPI to his account. 
Mr Cs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
a dependable means of ensuring his monthly mortgage repayments were protected even if 
he couldnt work. And looking at his circumstances at the time, I can see why Mr C mightve 
felt PPI was useful. 
Although I dont know exactly how the PPI was presented or explained to him, I dont feel 
I've seen enough overall to fairly say that its likely Halifax didnt make Mr C aware PPI was 
optional or that he didnt choose to have accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
On balance, I think its more likely that when the cover options were explained to him, Mr C 
wanted to have the benefits and security of having PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments and he decided to buy the policy. 
Halifax advised Mr C to take out the policy. If a business makes a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. And if that didnt 
happen, I need to think about whether that makes any overall difference to the outcome of 
this complaint. 
Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
His age at the time isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
PPI wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for up to 24 months per claim if Mr C was 
off work through accident or sickness. I think this couldve been a useful benefit at whats 
likely to have been a difficult time for Mr C if hed needed to claim. And the policy wouldve 
paid out for 24 months if Mr C lost his job and was unemployed. 
He couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving him long term cover for his mortgage. 
So I think PPI couldve been useful to Mr C and it was a suitable recommendation for him. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Cs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr C off taking out the policy.
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. 
Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made I think the policy provided a worthwhile benefit to Mr C. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable for him. 
Overall its possible there couldve been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr C still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been given clearer information as 
the policy gave him useful protection in his particular situation. I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
This means I dont find that Mr C has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman