DRN-2672926
The complaint
Mrs R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy in full.
What happened
Mrs R holds an annual travel insurance policy through her bank account. The insurer is UKI.
Mrs R paid a deposit towards accommodation abroad for July 2020. But she had to cancel 
the trip due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. She managed to transfer half of the deposit for 
the next year  but she made a claim to UKI for the other half.
UKI only paid a portion of the claim because Mrs R had said shed invited several family 
members to stay with her in the accommodation she paid for. So, UKI considered the 
remaining portion to be a gift. UKI said the policy doesnt cover costs that are paid as a gift.
Mrs R doesnt agree that any of the accommodation costs could be considered to be a gift, 
as shed made the booking for private use. She also said the other family members made 
and paid for their own travel arrangements, and they wouldnt be able to claim these costs 
from their insurers as they hadnt suffered a financial loss.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think UKI had done anything wrong 
by only paying what it considered to be Mrs Rs portion of the accommodation cost. This was 
because the policy excluded gifted costs. She also noted the policy had an optional upgrade 
that wouldve covered this scenario and Mrs R hadnt bought the upgrade. Our investigator 
was also satisfied UKI had acted fairly by considering the remaining portion of the deposit to 
be a gift.
Mrs R has since raised further arguments. She says that where a term in a consumer 
contract could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer 
is to prevail. Mrs R believes the relevant policy term can be interpreted differently, and as 
she invited family to come and join her, this wasnt a gift.
Mrs R has also referred to three elements to determine a gift in law, and argues the key 
issue was donative intent. Mrs R says she didnt intend her request to share her birthday as 
a gift. So, it cannot be a gift as Mrs R didnt intend it as such.
Mrs R also said this was a significant and unusual term, and it shouldve been highlighted to 
her, and that she could opt to pay extra to be covered.
Our investigator explained that shed based her view on our services approach, which 
meant that where a word isnt defined in the policy, wed apply the words every day and 
commonly used meaning. She also explained the role of our service, and why she still 
thought UKI had fairly applied the term here. Our investigator also said this type of term 
wasnt unusual in travel insurance policies.
Mrs R didnt agree with out investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint. 
The relevant section of Mrs Rs policy includes the following exclusion:
We wont pay for:
10. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are travelling 
with someone who is not insured under the policy, we will only pay your portion of any costs 
even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
I can also see that under the Who is covered section of the policy it says that You can 
extend the cover to include any guests travelling with you on a trip by buying a Guest 
Upgrade.
Ive thought about what Mrs R has said about the deposit paid for the accommodation not 
being a gift. But I dont think I can fairly say it wasnt. I say this because she paid a deposit 
for an accommodation that fit several people, and she invited people to stay there with her 
free of charge as her guests. I dont think it makes a difference here that she didnt make or 
pay for their other travel arrangements. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs R has said about the accommodation costs not being 
intended as a gift, and how the term could be interpreted differently. Ive also taken into 
account her arguments in relation to the law. But I dont agree with Mrs Rs suggestion that 
the relevant term could have different interpretations, nor can I fairly say the accommodation 
costs werent intended as a gift. Fundamentally, this is because I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mrs R was expecting her family to pay for the accommodation.
Taking everything into account, I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably by considering a 
significant portion of the deposit Mrs R paid to be a gift.
I can also see that the policy had an optional upgrade that wouldve provided cover in this 
scenario. UKI provides the option to cover additional guests for trips if the policyholders want 
or need to but Mrs R hadnt paid for this. So, as the policy Mrs R had didnt cover costs paid 
as a gift, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong by only paying what it considered to be 
Mrs Rs portion of the claim.
As our investigator explained, this type of term is now fairly standard in travel insurance 
policies. So, I dont think its an unusual term. Because of this, I dont think UKI necessarily 
needed to highlight this term, or the guest upgrade option, to Mrs R. I think it was for Mrs R 
to make sure the policy was suitable for her needs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman