DRN-3410540
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that esure Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it never existed) 
her motor insurance policy and refused to pay her claim after her car was stolen.
What happened
Mrs J took out a motor insurance policy with esure through an online price comparison site. 
When her car was stolen from outside her house, she tried to claim on her policy. 
esure declined her claim and avoided her policy. When Mrs J complained, it said shed 
answered the question shed been asked about the named drivers previous driving 
convictions incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid the policy and refuse the claim. 
our investigators view
Mrs J brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought that Mrs J had tried to tell esure about the named drivers MS90 and TT99 
convictions. But he thought Mrs J should also have told esure about the named drivers 
earlier SP30 and SP50 motoring offences. But she hadnt. And he thought that esure 
wouldnt have provided cover if it had known about these. So he thought esure was entitled 
by the policys terms and conditions to avoid the policy and decline the claim.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mrs J said 
shed called esure before the theft and told it about the MS90. But it didnt then tell her it 
would avoid the policy, and this had prejudiced her position. An advocacy service has 
provided a representation in support of Mrs J. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs J 
and to esure on 7 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
esure said Mrs J had failed to answer a question correctly when she had applied for her 
policy. So I was satisfied that the relevant law in this case was The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
esure thought Mrs J didnt disclose the named drivers motoring convictions when she took 
out her policy. This means that, under CIDRA, she failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when she stated in her application via a comparison site that the 
named driver had no motoring convictions. 
And I looked at the question she was asked when she completed the application and I 
agreed she failed to take reasonable care. This was because she was asked, in regard to 
the named driver:
In the last five years has this driver received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements, fixed penalties or been disqualified from driving (including any pending 
prosecutions)? 
A pop up note gave further information about how to find the needed information. And I 
thought this was a clear question asked by esure through the comparison site Mrs J used.
Mrs J chose No when she took out her policy. I saw Mr Js driving records and I could see 
that when the policy was taken out he had two convictions for speeding and then the MS90. 
Mrs J did later call esure and tell it that the named driver, Mr J, had been given an MS90 
conviction and this had led to a suspension. She said the MS90 hadnt been disclosed 
earlier as it had been notified within the policy year. esures agent agreed to make a note 
and said that it would be applied to the policy at renewal. 
I thought Mrs J made an error here when she should have told esure that Mr J had been 
given an MS90 that had led to a TT99, totting up conviction and suspension. I agreed with 
Mrs J that esure could then have asked more questions about this. But I also thought it was 
for Mrs J to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And I thought she hadnt 
done so when she didnt disclose the other two convictions for speeding offences. 
Mrs J said that the MS90 wasnt added by esure at renewal. But I disagreed. I saw that she 
called esure when she received her renewal pack and she wanted to cancel because the 
premium had increased due to the MS90 on the policy. Mrs J said Mr J was no longer 
banned as the conviction was spent. I thought she meant that the six month disqualification 
had ended. 
Mrs Js representative maintained that Mrs J had disclosed these two speeding convictions 
in her calls to esure. But I hadnt seen any evidence to support this. So I couldnt say that 
esure was negligent in letting the policy continue at this point and so I didnt think it had 
prejudiced Mrs Js position. 
Mrs J told us that she wasnt aware of the two convictions as they were her husbands. But I 
thought it was Mrs Js responsibility to take reasonable care that the information she 
disclosed to esure was accurate. So I thought she should have checked this with her 
husband.
And I thought this meant Mrs J failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she said neither driver had any motoring convictions within the 
previous five years. 
esure provided evidence from its underwriting guide which showed that if Mrs J had not 
made this misrepresentation about the two speeding offences it wouldnt have offered cover 
at all. This meant I was satisfied Mrs Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one under 
CIDRA.esure refunded Mrs Js premium. So I thought it accepted that her non-disclosure was 
careless. I hadnt seen evidence that the non-disclosure was deliberate or reckless. And the 
remedy under CIDRA for careless non-disclosure where the insurer wouldnt have offered 
cover at all is that esure is entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim.  
Therefore, I was satisfied esure was entitled to avoid Mrs Js policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this meant that  in effect  her policy never existed, esure did not have to 
deal with her claim following the theft of her car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I thought allowing esure to rely on it to 
avoid Mrs Js policy produced the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Subject to any further representations by Mrs J or esure, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. 
esure replied that it had nothing further to add. Mrs J replied asking for copies of her calls 
with esure to be provided to her. She said her mistake was that she hadnt known about her 
husbands speeding offences. But she said she hadnt tried to hide anything. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs J has repeatedly asked for copies of her calls to esure. And Im pleased to 
see that these have now been provided and she has now had a chance to review them all, 
including those made from her mobile phone. I can understand that this has been an 
extremely stressful experience for her. 
Mrs J thought I hadnt taken into account her calls made from her mobile number. But I did 
review these in reaching my provisional decision and Ive referred to them above. 
Mrs J referred to her renewal notice and I can see that this included the MS90. But it 
incorrectly says that Mr J wasnt banned. As Ive said above, Ive no doubt that Mrs J told 
esure that Mr J had the MS90 and had been suspended and the agent didnt pick up on this 
or ask further questions at that point. But Mrs J still didnt disclose the other convictions 
when she took out her policy or when she made this or later calls. So I dont think this 
omission by esure is sufficient to change the outcome. 
Mrs J said that she checked Mr Js licence before renewal and saw the other convictions. 
Mrs J initially said she received the renewal pack and saw that it didnt include all the 
convictions. She said she had called esure before renewal and before the theft and made it 
aware of the ban and the missing points. But, as Ive said above, in the call Mrs J discussed 
the suspension which had now ended but she didnt mention the convictions for speeding 
offences or the TT99. 
I can see that Mrs J has now listened to the recordings and now accepts this. She said she 
saw the other convictions but didnt think any more of them as she thought they would be 
only added to the new policy, not the old one. But, unfortunately, the speeding convictions 
occurred prior to the old policy being taken. And so Im satisfied they should have been 
disclosed when it was taken out. But they werent. 
Mrs J said esure had provided a quote for a friend with the same convictions as Mr J. But Im 
satisfied by the extracts from its underwriting guidelines that esure wouldnt have provided a 
quote at that time if both of Mr Js speeding convictions had been disclosed. And so Im 
satisfied that the correct remedy under CIDRA is avoidance and to decline the claim, not to 
settle it proportionately.  Mrs Js further representations havent persuaded me to change my provisional decision, so 
I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman