DRN-3819289
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Michael James, trading as West Country 
Financial (WCF) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M held benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be 
examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers 
DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms pension being £363,413.16. And in October 2017, Mr M, 
like other members of the BSPS, was sent a time to choose letter which gave him the 
options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer his BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
Mr M approached WCF in November 2017 to discuss his BSPS pension. WCF completed a 
fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. He was 43, in 
good health, married with two children. He was employed, earning approximately £43,000 
per year. Mrs M was also employed and was said to be earning over £50,000 per year. Their 
income exceeding their outgoings and provided a monthly surplus of just under £3,750. They 
held savings of around £15,500. Mr and Mrs M owned their own home, with a mortgage due 
to be repaid in approximately 9 years. And they also owned a second property. This was 
rented out and providing additional income, after also covering mortgage costs  with the 
mortgage on that property due to be repaid in 14 years time.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr M was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) workplace pension scheme, to which he and his employer were 
making combined contributions equivalent to 16% of his salary. It was also noted that Mrs M 
had some pensions.
WCF noted in the fact find that Mr M said he enjoyed his job, considered he was well paid 
and planned to stay with his employer until retirement. But he was interested in retiring early 
at age 60. It said he would potentially begin phasing towards retirement from age 58 but was 
flexible about this. It said Mr M wanted to aim for an income of £12,000 per year in 
retirement. WCF said Mr M also wanted the flexibility to retire early without being penalised, 
access to alternative death benefits so his pension could pass in full to his family and control 
over his pension investments as it said hed lost trust in his employer.
WCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. 
WCF has provided a copy of a suitability report, dated 5 December 2017, in which it advised 
Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension with a named provider and 
invest in one of the providers managed funds. The report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that Mr M wanted flexibility to take benefits at 60 without reduction, 
although it noted a different target income figure of £15,000. It also said he wanted the 
opportunity to maximise the tax-free cash he could take and the option to leave his pension 
funds to his family as a lump sum in the event of his death. And WCF said Mr M had lost 
trust with his employers handling of the pension. So, WCF thought a transfer was suitable. 
WCF also recommended that Mr M opt to receive ongoing support in respect of his pension, 
at a further cost.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with WCFs recommendation.
Mr M complained in 2022 to WCF about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr M didnt 
initially receive a response, so referred the complaint to our service. WCF subsequently said 
that it didnt think an error had been made and wouldnt be upholding Mr Ms complaint. It 
said the advice was suitable based on Mr Ms objectives, it had given a full explanation of 
the reasons for this, and Mr M had proceeded having understood the reasons for the advice.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. She didnt 
think Mr Ms retirement needs were likely to be known, given how far from retirement he 
was. But in any event, she didnt think he needed flexibility or to transfer in order to achieve 
the aim of retiring at age 60. She also didnt think any of the other reasons given for 
transferring meant it was in Mr Ms best interests to do so, particularly given she believed he 
was unlikely to improve on the benefits hed be giving up. So, she recommended that WCF 
compensate Mr M for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £300 for the 
distress hed incurred.
WCF disagreed, saying the investigator had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It said it 
wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer would be in Mr Ms best interests. Instead, the 
adviser was simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for 
him. And it said the Investigator had used a significant degree of hindsight, which it thought 
was unreasonable. 
WCF said the Investigator had placed too much weight on an assessment of the critical 
yields and discount rate  the latter of which it was not required to consider. It also said the 
advice was suitable for Mr Ms circumstances, and that he only required funds from this 
pension until state pension age, when his and Mrs Ms retirement income needs would be 
met by that.
In addition, WCF said Mr M had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer. 
It didnt agree that Mr M wouldve acted differently. And it said the BSPS2 was not a 
confirmed option at the time of the advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. She noted that WCFs argument 
that Mr M would not have needed to take benefits from this pension after state retirement 
age relied on his thoughts about what his needs might be in retirement being accurate, when his circumstances couldve changed.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
WCF says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr M. I agree that under COBS, WCF was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr M was suitable for him (COBS 
9.2.1). But it was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his 
best interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have 
considered recommending a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
WCF was required by the regulator to instruct a transfer value analysis (TVAS) 
report. One of the pieces of analysis this included was the calculation of critical yields 
 how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to allow 
him to obtain equivalent benefits at retirement to those provided by his DB scheme. 
WCF has argued these are of limited relevance and the Investigators assessment 
placed too much emphasis on them. But again, the regulator required WCF to 
calculate the critical yields and to consider the cost of the guarantees being given up. 
So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration.The TVAS WCF instructed didnt analyse the benefits that Mr M couldve received 
under the BSPS2. And critical yields were not calculated in reference to this. This is 
despite information about revaluation and escalation rates being known at the time. I 
also note an independent, pre-sale review of the advice, that WCF has provided, 
questioned this not being analysed. WCF has argued that the BSPS2 may not have 
gone ahead. But I think it is overstating the chance of this. The restructuring of the 
BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point it gave advice 
and instructed the TVAS. Actions had been agreed with the pensions regulator and 
carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which 
enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations. So, based on what had 
happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were 
confident the BSPS2 would go ahead. And I think WCF shouldve analysed the 
BSPS2 benefits and instructed a TVAS exploring this.
The TVAS WCF did instruct said the critical yield was 6.47% to match the full 
pension Mr M would have been entitled to under the BSPS at age 65. Or, to match 
the full starting pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 3.96%. 
No critical yield figures were calculated in respect of Mr M opting to take tax-free 
cash and a reduced pension  which again Id question, given WCF suggested taking 
tax-free cash was something Mr M was interested in. 
The report also looked at the critical yields required to match the benefits Mr M 
wouldve been entitled to from age 60. To match the full pension the report estimated 
the BSPS would provide from that time the critical yield was said to be 7.25%. And to 
match the full starting pension under the PPF from age 60 it was 4.28%. 
Given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits 
it wouldve provided were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF. And it 
is worth bearing in mind that the critical yields were the estimated returns required 
just to replicate the benefits being given up, not improve on them.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. 
WCF has said it was not required to consider these discount rates. But the regulator 
required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme 
with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable assumptions. The 
discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. So, while WCF was not 
obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption to 
consider. And WCF was free to consider it. 
The relevant discount rates at the time were 4.5% for 21 years to retirement  
relevant if Mr M retired at age 65  and 4.3% for 16 years to retirement  relevant if 
he retired at 60. And although WCF has referred to past performance of the 
recommended fund, as it is aware, this is no guarantee for future performance. So, I 
consider the discount rates, along with the regulators standard projections, to be 
more realistic in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme and taking on the associated risks only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And by transferring Mr M would have to pay 
annual fees and charges for the personal pension, which would reduce any gains the 
funds made. And those are not charges he would have had to pay if he didnt 
transfer.
Here given Mr Ms recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% 
for low medium and high rate returns respectively, I think he was always unlikely to 
improve on the benefits hed have received under the BSPS2 or the PPF if he retired 
at age 60, by transferring. 
In respect of the benefits he could potentially receive at the normal scheme 
retirement age, there does seem to have been more scope for him to replicate those 
benefits under the PPF. Again, WCF failed to analyse or calculate critical yields in 
respect of the BSPS2 benefits. So, we dont know what these were. Based on the 
estimated pension values in the time to choose documents, it seems likely those 
yields were likely to be closer to those of the BSPS at age 65. But, even if they were 
more towards those of the PPF, the scope to improve Mr Ms benefits at age 65 was 
still limited. And, if his fund had an extended period of poor performance or suffered 
losses then he would likely find himself worse off in retirement. So, this isnt enough, 
in my view, to justify the transfer as Mr M would be taking on the risk of the personal 
pension providing lower benefits which he didnt need to do.
And the critical yields arent the only thing that, in my view, indicates Mr M may be 
worse off in retirement by transferring. The TVAS estimated that the cost, or pension 
fund value that would be required, to purchase equivalent benefits at age 60 to those 
the BSPS would provide was £910,636. Or to purchase benefits equivalent to those 
the PPF would pay was £570,847. A personalised illustration from the recommended 
pension provider though said that if the mid-rate of growth was achieved until age 60, 
after accounting for fees and charges, the projected value of the personal pension 
was only £382,000. And similar figures for retirement at age 65 put the cost of 
replicating BSPS benefits at £1,027,774, replicating PPF benefits at £614,556 but the 
projected value assuming mid growth, at only £390,000. In both scenarios those 
sums are significantly below what would be needed to replicate the guaranteed 
benefits that Mr M was giving up. 
WCF has said there were other reasons that meant the transfer was suitable for 
Mr M. It said he wanted to retire before the normal scheme retirement age and have 
flexibility to take benefits early, and to not be penalised for this. It also said he was 
interested in alternative death benefits and wanted to take control of his pension 
away from his employer. But WCFs role was not one of wish fulfilment or to put in 
place what Mr M mightve thought he wanted when seeking advice. It was to give him 
objective advice about what was in his best interests.
Under the BSPS2 and the PPF, Mr M couldve taken pension benefits at age 60. And 
he couldve taken tax-free cash. It is true that his pension benefits wouldve been 
subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact that benefits wouldve 
been payable for longer than if he waited until his normal retirement age. And I dont 
think WCF did enough to objectively explain this.
The TVAS said that, at age 60, Mr M couldve taken a pension starting at £15,775 
under the PPF. And Mr Ms time to choose letter indicated that he was estimated to 
be able to take a starting pension of £19,382.71 under the BSPS2. Both of which 
wouldve been sufficient to meet Mr Ms income needs and would be guaranteed for 
the rest of his life. And his new workplace pension, which it was reasonable to assume hed have continued to contribute to until retirement, wouldve provided him 
funds that he could use flexibly, had he needed to.
WCF said Mr M was interested in taking tax-free cash when he retired. Based on the 
information recorded at the time of the advice, both of his outstanding mortgages and 
the other liabilities noted wouldve been repaid in full by the time he retired. And there 
wasnt any expenditure noted that tax-free cash was earmarked for. WCF said Mr M 
was potentially interested in tax-free cash to supplement his income, pay for holidays 
or potentially put towards purchasing another rental property. But I dont think any of 
these objectives were set in stone. In any event though, the time to choose letter 
said that Mr M could potentially draw £92,790.79 in tax-free cash at age 60 and 
receive a reduced annual pension starting at £13,918.62. So, he couldve still had a 
significant tax-free cash sum available for these purposes. And Mr M again wouldve 
built benefits in his new workplace pension, that he couldve also taken from age 60 
had he needed access to further funds.
WCF has said that Mr M would only have needed to draw benefits from his pension, 
following a transfer, until he reached state retirement age. And has suggested the 
income would then have become unnecessary. But I think its rarely the case that 
people complain of having too much money. And by remaining in the DB scheme 
Mr M wouldve been guaranteed a pension that wouldve met his recorded income 
needs from age 60. With these needs met, Mr M couldve chosen to leave his new 
workplace pension, which was already subject to investment risk, untouched and 
allowed it to continue to grow in retirement. And Mrs M couldve done the same with 
her pensions. 
So, I dont think Mr M had a genuine need for flexibility or a variable income from this 
pension in retirement. Nor do I think he needed to transfer to achieve his objectives 
of early retirement and a specific income. And by transferring he was exposing his 
pension fund to the volatilities of the investment markets and putting his otherwise 
safeguarded DB scheme pension income at unnecessary risk  when his other 
retirement provisions were already subject to that risk. And I dont think that was in 
his best interests.
And, in any event, Mr M was only 43 at the time of the advice, over 16 years from 
when he thought he might retire. I think his plans were unconfirmed at the time of the 
advice and his circumstances, objectives or aims couldve changed over the years 
that followed. So, I think it was too soon for Mr M to make an irreversible decision to 
transfer out of his DB scheme. Particularly when he had the option of joining the 
BSPS2, which as Ive said wouldve allowed him to meet his expected needs. Also, 
by joining it he would retain the option to transfer out at a later date if his 
circumstances required it.
WCF has said that Mr M was concerned about his pension fund dying with him and 
wanted to transfer so that he could pass on his pension as a lump sum. The priority 
here though was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement not a legacy for family on death.
The existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that 
couldve been valuable to Mrs M in the event of his death. And although the CETV 
figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum 
remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. It wouldve 
been dependent on investment performance and wouldve been reduced by any 
income Mr M drew in his lifetime. So, the pension may not have provided the legacy 
that Mr M may have thought it would.Mr Ms new workplace pension  which again it is reasonable to think hed have 
continued to contribute to until retirement  already gave him a fund with lump sum 
death benefits. And, with his DB scheme pension apparently sufficient to meet his 
income needs in full, this couldve been left invested, to provide a lump sum on his 
death, without putting his guaranteed pension at risk.
Mr M also had the option of taking out insurance to provide a legacy to his family. 
WCF said this was considered. It has provided evidence of quotes for the potential 
cost of a whole of life and term assurance policy for a sum equal to the CETV. Id 
start by saying that basing the quote for life cover on the transfer value of Mr Ms 
pension benefits essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following 
the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Rather the starting point ought to have been to 
ask Mr M how much he would ideally like to leave to his family, which also wouldve 
served to illustrate that this wasnt in fact just a generic objective. 
In any event though, the cover quoted appears to have been affordable for Mr M. 
WCF said in the suitability report that Mr M didnt want to pay for life cover  which it 
quoted as being £273.05 per month for a whole of life policy or £69.15 per month for 
term assurance to age 89. Notwithstanding that the figures used in the suitability 
report dont appear to represent the cheapest options on the comparisons it has 
provided, given the level of disposable income Mr M had each month, these policies 
were affordable. And, while he mightve thought he wanted to make sure his pension 
lived on, WCFs role was to advise Mr M about what was in his best interests. Again, 
the purpose of that pension was to provide for his needs in retirement. And any 
legacy it did provide was likely to be substantially different to the CETV. So, I dont 
think it was in his best interests to give up his security in retirement to achieve this.
WCF says Mr M had lost trust in his employers handling of his pension and, as he 
was paying into a new pension scheme with his employer, he didnt want to have all 
his eggs in one basket. The DB scheme and his new workplace pension were 
entirely separate though. And were very much not one basket. The new workplace 
defined contribution pension, although being contributed to through his employer, 
was held and operated by a large, well known pension provider. It was already 
subject to investment risk  which was borne by Mr M. And Mr M had the option of 
requesting changes to how this was invested. Mr Ms DB scheme pension was 
entirely different, run by trustees, who were not one and the same as his employer. 
The pension scheme assumed all of the risk and guaranteed to provide a pension of 
a certain amount to Mr M. If anything by transferring to a personal pension, although 
it wouldve been invested in different funds through a different provider, Mr M 
wouldve been bringing his pensions closer together in terms of characteristics. And 
so, if Mr M did in fact state he didnt want all of his eggs in one basket I cant see 
that WCF did nearly enough to challenge or objectively address that statement.
I dont doubt that Mr M was likely to have been worried by what had happened to that 
point regarding the DB scheme. The consultation was likely to have been unsettling 
and he may well have had negative feelings about his employers handling of the 
matter. And he mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I 
think that would have been a very natural emotional response to what was 
happening. But again, WCFs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Ms 
employer and pension scheme were not one and the same. And Mr M intended to 
continue in his job with his employer until he retired. So, the relationship may not 
have been as irretrievably broken down as suggested.
As Ive already said, there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed 
toward the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr M the option to transfer 
closer to retirement. WCF has said Mr M was worried that this scheme couldve also 
failed in the future. But there wasnt any information that indicated this was a reason 
for concern, which Id have expected WCF to address.
And even if the BSPS2 hadnt been established, the PPF still provided Mr M with a 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing his benefits early. And, as Ive 
explained, wouldve provided him with guaranteed benefits that wouldve met the 
objectives hed discussed at the time. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as 
he mightve thought, and I dont think any fears he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
WCF says that Mr M made an informed decision to transfer and that the Investigator did not 
have enough regard for this. I can see that WCF did give information about some of the risks 
involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. And I can see that Mr M set out in 
writing that it was important for him to transfer and why, when confirming hed read the 
recommendation. But this statement was made after WCF gave its advice and had said 
transferring was in his interests. And the reasons why were largely repetition of why the 
suitability report had said a transfer was in Mr Ms interests. 
Ultimately, WCF advised Mr M to transfer. And, while he mightve entered the discussions 
thinking about transferring, Mr M was an inexperienced investor and I think he relied on that 
advice. So, if WCF, a professional adviser whose expertise he had sought, had explained 
why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from WCF was 
unsuitable.
Mr M had over 16 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. And I think any thoughts he had about retiring were unconfirmed. I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. The estimates in the time to choose document and the TVAS 
suggested that at age 60 he was likely to be better off in the BSPS2. By opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. Also, under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be set at 
50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement (even if one was ultimately taken). And the annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had 
he received suitable advice not to transfer, Mr M wouldve opted into the BSPS2. And I think 
WCF should compensate him on this basis.
WCF has suggested it wasnt the business that provided ongoing advice, so it isnt 
responsible for what has happened since the transfer. But if WCF hadnt advised Mr M to 
transfer, none of the subsequent investments wouldve happened. WCFs role was pivotal, 
since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first. So, in 
my view, the entirety of any loss Mr M mightve incurred stems from WCFs unsuitable 
advice. So, I think holding WCF responsible for the whole of any loss represents fair 
compensation in this case.
Our Investigator recommended that WCF make a payment for the distress caused to Mr M. I 
accept that Mr M has likely been worried to find that the advice might not have been suitable 
for him. And given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice, I dont doubt he has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred but for the advice 
that is the subject of this complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the recommended 
award of £300 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for WCF to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
WCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
WCF should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what WCF 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WCF should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts WCFs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, WCF may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, WCF should pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Michael James, trading 
as West Country Financial to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Michael James, trading as West Country Financial pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Michael James, trading 
as West Country Financial.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman