DRN-3290284
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund him payments that he says were made to 
an investment / trading scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr B says that he made three payments in October 2018 from his Lloyds account as the 
result of an investment scam. He had initially included a £500 ATM withdrawal but later 
conceded he couldnt evidence that was linked to the scam. Of the three payments, one was 
a debit card payment and the others were transfers. 
Mr B says these were all made to a broker Ill refer to as C. He says C are a scam company 
and his payments to them from other banks have been reimbursed on that basis. The two 
transfers were shown as going to other UK bank accounts and the debit card payment went 
to a company Ill refer to as F. 
Lloyds said that they were unable to assist Mr B in trying to recover the transfers. But they 
did raise a chargeback in relation to the debit card payment, but when F defended this they 
took no further action. Lloyds acknowledged that theyd provided some poor service and 
offered £50 compensation for the impact of this. 
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our Investigators who didnt recommend it should 
be upheld. In summary he couldnt find anything linking any of the payments to C. And he 
also didnt think that Lloyds ought to have done more. As he disagrees, Mr B has asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons, 
Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs testimony is that two transfers totalling around £4,700 were made as a result of the 
scam. He says these payments were taken by C using the card details that hed provided 
them with. But the evidence from Lloyds doesnt support this. It shows that the payments 
were transfers that were made in branch. Further to this the reference for one of these 
payments indicates that it was to settle an invoice to pay for a boiler. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im not persuaded that the transfers were made in 
relation to the scam Mr B alleges he was a victim of. In light of this I dont think Lloyds ought 
to have done more in relation to these payments, either at the time they were made or once 
Mr B notified Lloyds of them. 
The only remaining payment to consider is the debit card payment for around £2,700 which 
was made to F. I dont think there was anything so unusual about this payment that means 
Lloyds ought to have intervened at the time it was made. 
I also think that Lloyds acted fairly in raising a chargeback. F defended the chargeback and 
provided evidence to support that Mr B had a trading account with them which hed regularly 
used around that time. They also shared the risk warning that was displayed to Mr B. I dont 
think Lloyds decision to not take this further was an unreasonable exercise of their 
discretion.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B lost money in this way. And I understand why this will feel 
particularly disappointing when he has received reimbursement from some of the other 
business he made payments through. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think Lloyds have treated him unfairly or that they could or should have done more. 
For completeness, I consider the £50 compensation their complaint response mentioned to 
be fair for the impact of any service failings surrounding this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman