DRN-4281312
The complaint
Mr G has complained Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, is holding him 
liable for a personal loan he didnt take out.
What happened
A loan with 118 118 Money for £5,000 was taken out in Mr Gs name on 31 May 2022. At the 
time Mr G had recently taken out a crypto trading account (with a business Ill call N) and 
invested £200. Hes told us hed got a call from the people running this account and allowed 
them to take control of his tablet. He was told to expect a payment into his account, which 
would be coming from the company. He was then told to send this to his account linked to 
his crypto account. This account had been set up with another bank (who Ill call R).
Within a couple of months, Mr G realised hed become liable for a loan for which hed 
received no benefit. 118 118 Money believed theyd done nothing wrong having undertaken 
the correct checks to ensure they could give a loan to Mr G. Theyd tried to take a payment 
from Mr Gs debit card with R but this failed and now expected Mr G to repay the loan. They 
sent him a notice of their intention to default his loan on 9 September 2022.
Dissatisfied, Mr G brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator 
confirmed Mr G had not taken out the loan nor signed up to the terms and conditions. 118 
118 Money couldnt continue to hold him liable for the full interest along with capital amount. 
She asked 118 118 Money to reduce Mr Gs liability to the capital amount only.
Neither 118 118 Money nor Mr G accepted this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 18 August 2023. I believed as Mr G hadnt taken out 
this loan, he couldnt be held liable for any outstanding amount.
No response was received from 118 118 Money but we did receive one from Mr G. He 
reaffirmed hed been tricked into taking out this loan.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
Our investigator completed a detailed view dated 27 June 2023. As Ive reviewed the 
evidence myself, I dont intend to repeat what was said there as the evidence supports what 
our investigator has detailed. Along with evidence supplied to us by 118 118 Money, weve 
also looked at evidence from two of Mr Gs bank accounts (including the one held with R). 
Theres no dispute that a loan was applied for on 31 May 2022. This was done after Mr G 
was conned into allowing access to his tablet. He was distracted at the time and wasnt 
paying too much attention to what the fraudsters were doing. As far as he was aware, he 
received the money into his main bank account as hed been told to expect and he then 
made two payments out to his account with R. Along with another payment of £20 Mr G had 
sent to that account, £5,000 was sent in total.
The evidence shows N then made withdrawals from Mr Gs account with R. Mr G provided 
them with codes sent to his phone to enable these withdrawals.
I can see that Mr Gs main bank account refunded the initial £200 payment hed made to N.
All of this confirms to me, that Mr G was being defrauded in line with scams that weve seen 
in similar cases.
I can also see the fraudsters provided Mr Gs own mobile number to 118 118 Money. So I 
dont doubt he received text messages from them to confirm a loan had been set up and that 
payments were owed.
This suggests Mr G has not been completely forthcoming with our service. I find it hard to 
believe he wasnt aware that something untoward had happened. He was receiving text 
messages from 118 118 Money. I also can see he didnt follow up with R and N when 
withdrawals were being made. I accept what hes said about being tricked overall.
Overall the evidence suggests Mr G was a victim of fraud. A third party took out a loan in his 
name and managed to get the monies paid into Mr Gs main bank account. As Mr G had 
been led to expect this money, he was happy to transfer this to his account with R. Hed set 
up this account with R, after discussion with N.
Theres no evidence to indicate Mr G took out the loan with 118 118 Money. He didnt agree 
to the terms and conditions, nor did he benefit from the money.
Im surprised therefore 118 118 Money believe they can continue to hold him liable for 
repayment. They dont have grounds for this as I believe Mr G didnt take out the loan.
I appreciate 118 118 Money is aggrieved that the money was paid to a third party through no 
fault of their own. They carried out their requisite checks. They believe Mr G is at fault.
That isnt the issue here. Im considering whether 118 118 Money can hold Mr G liable and 
Im satisfied theres no basis for them to do so.
Putting things right
118 118 Money will need to write off the loan in Mr Gs name and stop asking him to repay 
this. They will also need to remove any reference to this loan from Mr Gs credit record.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 
118 Money, to:
Write off the personal loan for £5,000 in Mr Gs name;
Stop asking Mr G to repay this loan; andRemove any reference to this loan from Mr Gs credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman