DRN-2889823
The complaint
Mr H complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality and was misrepresented. He wants to 
end the agreement and reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mr H tells us that he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as K in September 2019.
He says that in August 2020 the vehicle broke down. And he had to have it recovered. Upon 
inspection he says he was advised that the engine had seized and would require replacing 
at an approximate cost of £2,000. Mr H states that he sought a second opinion from another 
garage, a business Ill refer to as TS. And whilst that opinion supported the previous 
diagnosis, he was also told that the vehicles engine was not the original. And its serial 
number didnt match that shown in the log book. Mr H says hes only done around 3,500 
miles since supply.
Advantage told us that two independent inspections by a business Ill refer to as SVI had 
stated that the issues with the vehicle were not present at the point of supply. And it 
considered that the vehicle had been fit for purpose when supplied.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2021. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint as I thought the vehicle had been misrepresented. And that the engine 
supplied with the vehicle didnt match that in the log book. And was probably older.
Since then both parties have replied but said they had nothing to add. I thank the parties for 
their responses.
As no new information has been supplied, I see no need to alter the conclusions outlined in 
my provisional view.  I uphold the complaint for the reasons given in my final decision which 
is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr H has had the unfortunate experience of the vehicle suffering such a 
serious breakdown.
Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I take it into account.  Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Advantage supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
It would also be responsible for any misrepresentation made about the vehicle by K during 
antecedent negotiations. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a 
consumer to enter an agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Its fair to describe Mr Hs complaint as comprising two main elements. This relates to an 
alleged misrepresentation of the mileage of the vehicle due to the engine having been 
changed. And whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Whilst there 
may be points of overlap, I think these are two distinct issues.
The vehicle was advertised with a mileage figure of 65,000 miles at the time it was supplied 
to Mr H. For a 10 year old vehicle this would be considered to be below average mileage. Mr 
H was supplied with the relevant V5 document, more commonly known as the log book. This 
document gives various details about the vehicle including the engine number.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H supplied details of the garage hed asked to inspect the vehicle. When our investigator 
checked with TS, it was confirmed to him that this inspection had shown the engine to have 
a different number to that shown in the log book. Which indicated that the engine had 
probably been changed. This is relevant to the issue of misrepresentation. And if the engine 
is not the original, its likely that the stated mileage isnt accurate.
Im aware that the original report from SVI didnt think the engine had been changed. But the 
comments from the inspector suggested that this was based on general observations. And 
that hed not seen the identification number on the existing engine as it was too difficult to 
access at the time. As TS specifically reported that its mechanics had observed the 
difference between the engine number and that recorded in the log book, I think thats likely 
to be a more reliable finding. Theres no reason to doubt this information. And I think its 
highly probable that the engine had been changed prior to supply to Mr H.
Im aware from the content of correspondence that Advantage suggests that as K wasnt 
aware of an engine change it couldnt misrepresent this fact to Mr H. I dont agree with this 
and Ill explain why.
There are three different categories of misrepresentation. These are usually referred to as 
innocent, negligent and fraudulent. And as Ive said above, all three require a false 
statement of fact to have been made. A statement may take various forms. And the supply of 
the log book and the information which it contained, in my opinion amounts to an assertion 
that the contents are accurate.
Briefly summarised, an innocent misrepresentation would occur when the dealer had no 
knowledge the statement was false. A negligent misrepresentation would probably arise if 
the dealer hadnt taken sufficient care to ensure the statement was correct. And a fraudulent 
misrepresentation would usually involve deliberately or recklessly making a false statement.
I find that its more probable than not that the engine has been changed at some point before 
the vehicle was supplied to Mr H. And consequently, the statement in the log book which 
identifies the number of the vehicles engine is false. As Ive no reason to think that K knew 
of the change of engine when it supplied the vehicle to Mr H, Im inclined to think that this 
was an innocent misrepresentation by K.Im sure from the information supplied, that a key selling point was the relatively low 
advertised mileage for a vehicle of this age. Its more probable than not that this factor 
induced Mr H into acquiring the vehicle. Had he known the engine had been changed, I think 
its likely that he would have sought proof that the advertised mileage was correct. And if that 
hadnt been provided (theres nothing to show that K has any knowledge of the actual 
mileage covered by the replacement engine) its highly unlikely hed have proceeded to 
acquire the vehicle.
The potential remedy for any type of misrepresentation is rescission of the contract. Which 
requires the consumer to be put back as near as possible to the position they were in 
immediately before the misrepresentation. As such Mr H is entitled to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement.
Im aware that Advantage thinks that allowing Mr H to reject the vehicle on the basis of 
misrepresentation is to ignore the findings of the independent inspections. And in terms it 
says that this means Mr H would be allowed to return the vehicle at no cost to himself.  
Despite having allegedly been responsible for the damage to the engine.
I recognise the concern being expressed. But I dont draw the same inference as Advantage. 
It seems to me the matters of misrepresentation and the causation of damage are two 
different issues.
I see no reason why, if Advantage thinks it can prove that Mr H is responsible for damage to 
the vehicle before its return, that it shouldnt seek to take such action as may be available to 
recover from him any loss it sustains.
As the issue of vehicle quality has been raised, Ill deal with it. But at the same time I 
emphasise that the main basis of my final decision is the finding of misrepresentation.
The second report by SVI found that the oil had been contaminated with fuel. And it stated 
that it had drained 5.5. litres from the sump. It suggested that this showed the vehicle had 
been overfilled by 1.2 litres of oil. And that this had ultimately led to the catastrophic engine 
failure.
But SVI also suggested an alternative cause might be a faulty fuel injector. And it said that 
unburnt fuel could ultimately migrate into the crankcase and increase the oil level in the 
sump. And this could lead to the engine failure.
I cant see that any checks were made on the fuel injectors. So its unclear whether they 
were the cause of the breakdown. Id simply note that fuel injectors typically last 50,000  
100,000 miles.
On the balance of probabilities, it seems unlikely that a vehicle which has been regularly 
serviced and maintained would see engine failure due to oil contamination at or around 
68,000 miles. Given the finding that the engine had been replaced, this is more likely to be 
the result of an older engine struggling to burn off the fuel due to worn parts. Which also 
supports the likelihood that the mileage was greater than advertised. 
Mr H was entitled to expect the vehicle to last longer than 3,500 miles after supply. Whilst its 
not the main basis for my decision, I find its more likely than not that the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. It lacked sufficient durability. 
Putting things right
Advantage Finance Ltd should take the following action to put things right:1. End the agreement with nothing for Mr H to pay from 5 August 2020; Payments due 
up to this date may be retained for fair use;
2.  Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr H;
3. Refund any payments made by Mr H for any period accruing after 5 August 2020, 
together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date 
of settlement;
4. Pay £200 to Mr H for distress and inconvenience;
5. Arrange for any adverse details of the agreement to be removed from Mr Hs credit 
file. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  
I require Advantage Finance Ltd to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman