DRN-1848738
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that a hire purchase agreement brokered by Evolution Funding Limited 
(Evolution) was mis-sold to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If Mr B was told something that led him to enter into an agreement he would not have 
otherwise entered into had it not been for that information then Id think he had been mis-
sold the agreement. Here I would agree that was the case.
Its clear from the phone call Mr B had with Evolution that he asked if there would be a hard 
search registered on his credit file and was wrongly told there wouldnt be.
I think if Mr B had been aware that was the case he would have been likely to look 
elsewhere as from the questions he asked during his telephone calls it appears any impact 
on his credit score was important.
So, Ive considered if Evolutions actions to remedy the situation have been reasonable and I 
think they have. Theyve financed the deal for Mr B, and this has enabled them to remove 
the credit file information. And theyve also agreed to pay Mr B £250 in compensation for the 
error which I think is reasonable given the impact on him that has been evidenced.
I understand Mr B would like Evolution to fund the home improvement loan he claims was 
rejected because his credit score had been impacted. I dont think theres enough 
information to demonstrate that the error made by Evolution resulted in this credit application 
being rejected. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Evolution to remedy that situation.
Im also not persuaded there is sufficient evidence Mr B could have been approved for a 
cheaper loan if hed gone elsewhere. And, similarly, whilst I can see that Mr B has evidenced 
a drop in his credit score I dont think theres evidence that score has had a financial impact 
on him, and I dont think it would be fair to say it will necessarily impede an improvement in 
his score  I think thats difficult to demonstrate.
But I do understand hes been inconvenienced by matters and I do think when he identified 
the problem it wouldve have been distressing. Considering the circumstances however, I 
think Evolutions offer of £250 compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman