DRN-2712687
The complaint
Mrs J complains Usay Business Limited mis-sold her a private medical insurance policy
Mrs J has brought her complaint through a representative, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs J personally. 
What happened
Mrs J took out private medical insurance through Usay in 2010. The sale was conducted 
over the telephone and Usay provided advice before the policy was taken out. 
Mrs J said the terms and benefits of the policy were not explained to her. And she was told 
that if she didnt end up making a claim on the policy, she would be entitled to a refund.
In 2019 Mrs J contacted her insurer to enquire about the increased cost of her premiums. 
And she asked if she was entitled to a refund. Usay explained a refund wasnt possible, so 
Mrs J complained. The complaint was originally raised with the insurer, and subsequently 
passed to Usay, because the insurer is not responsible for the advice provided during the 
sale. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and he didnt agree the policy had been 
mis-sold. But he made Mrs J aware that Usay had offered £150 compensation for the delays 
in handling the complaint. 
Mrs J didnt agree with our outcome so she asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Usay provided advice, it had a 
responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs J when it sold it to her. This 
means that the adviser had a duty to consider Mrs Js individuals needs and circumstances, 
and based on this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for 
her. Usay also needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Mrs J said the terms and benefits of the policy were not explained to her. Usay has provided 
a copy of the original sales calls and supporting email correspondence so Ive reviewed 
everything that was discussed to establish what Mrs J was told before the policy was taken 
out. And Ive reviewed the post-sale information Usay sent out to Mrs J following the sale.
Usays adviser discussed the cost of the policy and how the premiums were paid. He then 
set out the general exclusions and limitations of the policy. They also discussed the benefits 
under the policy and what types of treatments were covered.
The adviser checked Mrs Js specific needs and asked if she had any pre-existing health 
issues. Mrs J disclosed a condition and ongoing treatment so the adviser explained it 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
I can see Mrs J was sent a copy of her demands and needs statement which set out her 
requirements. And she was sent a copy of the policy document and key facts that explained 
all the benefits. 
Mrs J has also said she was told that if she didnt end up making a claim on the policy, or 
was unhappy, she would be entitled to a refund. But having listened to the sales call, I can 
confirm this wasnt discussed. And I havent seen anything to suggest this advice was 
provided in any of the policy documentation. 
Following the sale, Mrs J was advised she would receive paperwork in the
post that she needed to review to ensure she understood the policy, what it covered and 
how it worked. This documentation also highlighted Mrs Js cancellation rights should she 
change her mind or feel that the policy wasnt right for her. It also set out the cooling off 
period where a refund is provided if the consumer cancels the policy within the first 14 days, 
and makes no mentioned of any return of premiums as a later date. Im persuaded this was 
set out clearly, so shouldnt have mis-lead Mrs J in relation to the refund process. 
Having listened to the sales calls and correspondence, together with the post-sale 
documentation to Mrs J from Usay, I dont agree this policy was mis-sold. So Im not 
directing Usay to do anything further to put things right.
Our investigator has made Mrs J aware that Usay has offered £150 compensation in 
recognition of delays in their complaint handling - this is a separate issue to the mis-sale 
complaint Im deciding on. This isnt an activity we can comment on, so I wont make a 
finding on whether or not this is fair for the complaint handling delays. Mrs J can take this 
forward with Usay if she wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman