DRN-4229415
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call L, has complained about the refusal of a claim for 
business interruption loses under its Hospitality and Leisure insurance policy with Covea 
Insurance Plc. 
Mr H, as director of L has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr H is also represented in 
this complaint by solicitors but I will refer to Mr H or L throughout this decision or ease. 
What happened
L is a restaurant. L contacted Covea to make a claim for losses incurred after it was 
impacted as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Covea turned 
down the claim. Covea said that while the policy provided cover for closure as a result of 
manifestation of human disease at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of the premises, 
the definition of disease in the policy was a closed list of specified diseases which did not 
include Covid-19. 
Mr H is very unhappy about this. He says the business has been significantly affected by the 
periods that it was unable to open and also subject to restrictions on how it could operate 
when it was allowed to open. Mr H wants the claim paid, with interest and reimbursement of 
additional expenses L incurred due to the refusal to meet the claim. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied Covea was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it did. 
L does not accept the Investigators assessment. It has made a number of submissions. I 
have considered everything it has said but have summarised the main points below: 
The policy covers closure of the premises on the order of the Government or local 
authority, as a result of the manifestation of any human infectious or contagious 
disease. This same wording was considered by the courts when deciding the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Covid-19 business interruption test case. The 
term means that any such infectious disease is covered and the wording is not 
consistent with a closed list of diseases. 
Although the word Disease in the policy term is capitalised, indicating it is a defined 
term, it has to be given its usual meaning to be understood and does not mean that it 
is subject to a closed list. 
The insuring clause expressly insures any human disease and any ordinary person 
reading the term would interpret it as such. 
Another conflict of wording, between the insurance clause and the closed list of 
diseases is that some of the listed illnesses are not human infectious or contagious 
disease, such as food poisoning and tetanus.
The word Disease is capitalized in other parts of the policy but it bears its ordinary 
meaning. 
The insuring clause specifically excludes AIDS but it would not be necessary to 
exclude AIDS if the policy is providing specified disease cover. Covea said it had 
stated AIDS was excluded as it can lead to some of the listed diseases but this does 
not make sense. It only makes business sense to believe that Covea sought to 
exclude AIDS because it would be covering all other non-specified human 
infectious/contagious diseases. If Covea was correct in what it was saying it would 
have no need to mention AIDS in its insuring clause.
The Disease definition is four pages away from the insuring clause on a general 
definitions page containing 24 definitions. 
The ambiguity created by the policy wording should be interpreted in favour of the 
policyholder. In those circumstances, the closed list should be considered to be not 
part of the policy.
Covid-19 was not known at the time the list was made. 
The policy wording is defective and we should inquire how Covea arrived at the 
wording it used and investigate any changes it has made to the wording since 2020. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on L. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy in 
force at the time of these claims to see if Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Ls claim. 
The relevant part of Ls policy is the extension of the core Business Interruption cover for 
Infectious Diseases: 
 
Infectious Diseases
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference with 
Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on the 
order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any
person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
Disease is defined in the policy as being: 
any of the following diseases sustained by any person 
acute encephalitis acute infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis 
anthrax botulism brucellosis cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) 
food poisoning haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea 
invasive group A streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles 
meningococcal septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet fever 
smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHP) whooping 
cough and yellow fever.The policy also says: 
Business Interruption Section
Section Definitions
These definitions apply to the Section whenever these words or phrases appear with 
an upper case letter except where otherwise stated.
I agree therefore the capitalisation of the word Disease in the term above indicates that it is 
a defined term. The definition of disease also set out above is sufficiently clear in my opinion. 
It is a defined list of specified disease that are covered under the policy and Covid-19 is not 
one of them. 
Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy 
was drafted. However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable diseases. Ls 
policy does not say that it covers notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of 
diseases which are covered by the policy.
An insurance contract is correctly interpreted based on the understanding a reasonable 
person, with the background knowledge of the parties to the contract, would have 
had at the time the contract was entered into. The contract should not be interpreted with 
hindsight. Rather the question is how the words would have been understood by the 
reasonable small business owner, perhaps assisted by a broker, with all the background 
knowledge which would have been reasonably available at the time the parties entered into 
the contract. 
I think that it is reasonable to expect policyholders to understand that any word with a capital 
letter would have a specific policy definition, especially given the explanation of the use of 
capital letters in the policy set out above.  
The insurance contract was entered into before Covid-19 had been identified and I dont 
think such a person would consider, at the time L entered into its policy, that the policy would 
mean that all infectious human diseases would be covered and that the cover would not be 
limited to the diseases specified in the definition. 
I also think the terms are sufficiently clear and the definition sufficiently prominent in the 
policy. I do not think the fact it was in a general policy definitions page and not on the same 
page as the insuring clause means that it was so unclear that Covea cannot rely on it. 
I note that L also says Covea didnt need to specifically exclude AIDS and AIDS-related 
conditions in the infectious disease clause, given AIDS is not in the list of defined diseases. 
However, I dont agree that the fact it specifically excluded AIDS and AIDS-related 
conditions in the insuring clause means that Covea cannot reasonably rely on the definition 
of Disease generally and that Covid-19 is covered. 
L also says that the list of diseases includes illnesses that are not human contagious or 
infectious diseases and so again there is a lack of clarity about the cover. Even if I agree that  
food poisoning and tetanus would not be considered infectious or contagious, I do not think 
this means that Covid-19 related claims should be covered. 
Having considered everything, as I am satisfied that Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases 
listed, it is my opinion that any inability to use the insured premises as a result of Covid-19 
isnt covered by the policy. I can see why this was disappointing for L but insurers are 
entitled to decide what cover they want to provide.I have also considered the rest of the policy, but am not persuaded that any clause provides 
cover for the circumstances of Ls claim. As such, I do not consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to require Covea to meet Ls claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman