DRN-3528071
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains Santander UK Plc unfairly removed an overdraft and later 
closed its business accounts. It also says Santander recorded a default marker in relation to 
the overdraft and overall, they provided a poor service and failed to offer it appropriate 
support.
What happened
Mr H is a director of H and brings this complaint on Hs behalf. At this point, I must make 
clear that this decision does not concern any of Mr Hs personal accounts. This is because 
Mr H and H are separate legal persons, so their complaints would need to be considered 
separately.
In summary:
H held several accounts with Santander, including a current account with an 
arranged overdraft, and a savings account. 
In May 2019 H exceeded its arranged overdraft and went into an unarranged 
overdraft. This was caused in part by fees being applied to the account that were 
charged under the current account terms.
Santander wrote to H on several occasions. 
oThey sent a letter in May 2019 informing H it had entered an unarranged 
overdraft which needed to be repaid. It said if it wasnt repaid, further charges 
might be incurred, and debit cards could be blocked. 
oThey sent two separate letters in June 2019 saying H needed to repay the 
unarranged balance. Both letters said H could call them to agree a way to repay 
the arrears, and they provided the contact details of debt advice organizations. 
The letters said Hs debit card and direct debits could be cancelled if the arrears 
werent repaid.
oThey sent a letter in early July 2019 requesting repayment of the arrears within 
14 days. It further said that if they werent repaid, Hs banking facilities and 
overdraft would be removed, which would mean the full overdraft balance would 
fall due. It also said H could call them to discuss potential solutions if H couldnt 
afford to repay the arrears.
Mr H wrote a letter to Santander in early July 2019 following the receipt of the last 
letter. He asked Santander to put a hold on further action for 30 days. He then rang 
Santander in mid-July 2019 as he was unhappy his letter hadnt been acknowledged. 
He asked Santander to consider refunding a sizeable amount of charges. 
Santander agreed to refund £170 of previous charges and waived a £50 charge that 
was due to debit the account. They also said they previously refunded another 
charge in June 2019.
Santander sent another letter out in early August 2019, which asked H to repay the 
arrears as soon as possible.
No payment was made to clear the arrears, and Santander removed the overdraft in 
August 2019, along with Hs banking facilities, which meant Mr H couldnt access the 
account online. Santander sent a letter out to confirm what had happened.
Several telephone conversations took place between Santander and Mr H in August 
2019. During those conversations Mr H expressed his unhappiness about the 
overdraft being removed and about Santander refusing to talk to another director of H 
who rang them previously. He found Santanders process of dealing with him 
bureaucratic and said he would contact the press, his MP, and the governor of the 
Bank of England. Santander said Hs other director wasnt authorised to speak about 
the account over the phone, so the account permissions would need to be amended.
Importantly, Mr H said he expected H to receive a very large payment to its savings 
account, part of which would be used to clear the overdraft balance. He expected to 
clear the overdraft at the beginning of September 2019. But in a subsequent phone 
call, Santander agreed to Mr Hs further request to extend the deadline to pay off the 
overdraft until the end of September 2019.
Mr H rang Santander at the end of September 2019 and said H might not be able to 
repay the overdraft until the end of October 2019. Santander said that as the 
collections process had been put on hold for three months, they would need a 
specific date for the overdraft to be repaid. They asked Mr H to call back when he 
had a date. 
Santander sent two further letters to H in October. The first letter said H had seven 
days to clear the balance, and the second letter said if the balance wasnt cleared 
they would share information with credit reference agencies which may impact on Hs 
ability to obtain credit in the future.
Mr H rang Santander in early November 2019. He said H was unable to repay the full 
balance at that time, but he expected it would be repaid by the end of December 
2019. He asked if two payments, which had previously been paid towards the 
overdraft debt, could instead be credited to Hs savings account. This was so H could 
pay important costs, including part payment of a former employees salary. 
Santander agreed to credit Hs savings account. They also agreed to H making a 
token payment of £1 towards the overdraft balance each month but said that this 
didnt mean further collections activity wouldnt continue at some point.
H failed to make a token payment in December 2019. Santander sent a letter in early 
January 2020 saying the account would be defaulted in 28 days if the overdraft debt 
wasnt cleared. Mr H made a payment of £3 in mid-January 2019 and wrote to 
Santander asking for further time. But Santander decided to record a default against 
Hs business account in February 2020, after the 28 days had passed. They closed 
the account.
Mr H contacted Santander several more times, and his MP also contacted 
Santander. He expressed his unhappiness about multiple matters, including the 
default, that he couldnt access Hs accounts online, and that Santander should have 
responded in writing to his letters. 
Santander restored access to Hs other accounts and said it had been removed due 
to receipt of returned mail, which was caused by H changing address. Their change 
of address process had needed to be followed before access was restored. They said Mr H would have always needed to call them to discuss options regarding Hs 
outstanding debt, and they wouldnt have sent letters for this purpose. They also said 
Santander werent responsible for the length of time it might have taken the postal 
service to deliver their letters.
Santander told Mr H in July 2020 that they would remove the default as a temporary 
measure contingent on H making a token payment each month and the arrears being 
cleared within six months. But they reviewed their position at a more senior level and 
decided not to remove the default due to the size of the debt owed and because they 
recorded the default correctly. They decided they would close Hs remaining 
accounts immediately, which they did in September 2019. They refunded a further 
£150 of fees charged on Hs business account in June 2019 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H complained about the closure of Hs other accounts without notice. He also said 
he thought Santander were holding on to a credit balance, which needed to be 
repaid. 
Santander confirmed there was no credit balance to repay. Although a large payment 
had been made towards the overdraft debt, this still left a balance to pay. They had 
used the remaining funds H held in another account to offset the remainder, which 
left a small debt which they decided to write off.
Our investigator upheld Hs complaint in part. In summary, they found:
Santander could decide to close Hs accounts and our service wouldnt generally 
interfere with the exercise of their discretion. But Santander still needed to give the 
correct notice under the accounts terms. Considering the information Santander had 
provided, it wasnt enough to show they acted reasonably by closing Hs accounts 
immediately. Instead, Santander should have given H two months notice and 
allowed access to the accounts during this time.
Santander offered appropriate support in their dealings with H about repaying the 
overdraft. They had waited some time for H to repay its arrears and the overdraft was 
revocable at any time.
Santander had shown an appropriate level of forbearance before deciding to default 
Hs business current account. They had refunded some charges and accepted token 
payments, as well as providing the details of debt advice organizations. But Hs 
situation hadnt changed over a significant period, so Santanders decision to record 
a default was understandable  it was an accurate reflection of Hs situation.
H is a limited company, so it cant experience distress or worry. There was no reason 
to doubt Mr H had been impacted personally by the immediate closure of Hs 
accounts, but this was not something for which H could be compensated. 
But H was caused inconvenience by the immediate closure of its accounts and what 
appears to have been preventable confusion about whether Hs debt had been 
cleared. £200 was a reasonable sum to compensate H.
Mr H responded and said he hadnt received some of Santanders letters. Our investigator 
sent him copies of those letters. Afterwards, he asked on Hs behalf for a final decision from 
an ombudsman. 
Santander failed to respond, and the deadline for them to do so has now passed. As a 
result, Hs complaint has been given to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have decided to uphold Hs complaint, but I am not awarding more compensation than the 
£200 our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Ultimately, an overdraft is revocable and can be recalled at any time. So, Santander could 
remove the overdraft and ask H to repay what it had borrowed. But Santander still needed to 
consider Hs individual circumstances and to act fairly before recording a default. I find on 
balance that Santander treated H fairly in this regard . I say this because:
Santander refunded some of the charges H incurred on its business current account. 
It wasnt the amount Mr H wanted them to refund, but the charges were applicable 
under accounts terms. And Im satisfied that by refunding and waiving some of the 
charges, Santander took a reasonable measure to help H.
Santander cancelled Hs overdraft in August 2019. But before doing so, they sent 
multiples letters to H from May 2019, which were detailed in our investigators view 
and copies of which have been sent to Mr H. 
I find Santander gave H clear notice that the overdraft would be removed if it didnt 
pay the arrears. Mr H says he didnt receive half of Santanders letters, but Im 
satisfied the letters were sent. And I dont find Santander were responsible if some of 
the letters didnt arrive in a timely manner after they were sent.
But whether some letters were received later than expected, Mr H was in my opinion 
aware that Hs overdraft could be cancelled and become repayable in full if Hs 
arrears werent paid. He had sent Santander a letter in July 2019 in response to the 
receipt of a Santander letter which detailed this was a possibility. He had asked 
Santander to wait 30 days before taking any action.
I appreciate H couldnt afford to pay the arrears, but on balance Santander gave H 
reasonable notice, and they were entitled to remove the overdraft after the arrears 
werent paid, meaning the full balance became due.
Mr H was left frustrated that Santander hadnt acknowledged his letter and in general 
he was frustrated they didnt respond in writing to some of his correspondence and 
contact. But I am not awarding losses for personal distress he experienced. Only H is 
the eligible complainant under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) for complaints 
about accounts it held, and it cannot experience upset or distress. I was though sorry 
to hear about Mr Hs personal circumstances during this time, and I recognise that 
this was a very difficult period for him.
After cancelling the overdraft, Santander held off from recording a default between 
July 2019 and November 2019. This was because Mr H said he expected H to 
receive very substantial funds which could pay off the overdraft. But by November 
2019, the overdraft debt hadnt been substantially repaid and the funds hadnt 
materialized.
Mr H rang Santander in November 2019 and said he hoped the overdraft debt would 
be repaid by the end of December 2019. He offered to pay a token payment of £1 per 
month in the interim, which Santander accepted. Santander did tell him the token 
payments wouldnt mean that further action couldnt be taken if the debt remained 
unpaid.
Santander also allowed Mr H to transfer payments that were previously made to 
reduce the overdraft balance in November 2019 to Hs savings account so that H 
could pay other pressing liabilities. 
Im satisfied Santander exercised reasonable forbearance on these occasions, 
particularly considering the size of debt they were owed and the length of time it had 
remained unpaid. Neither would I have found it unreasonable if Santander had 
decided not to hold off taking further action at that time. H missed a token payment in December 2019. Santander decided to send a default 
notice on 9 January 2020. They gave H 28 days to pay off the overdraft debt, which 
Mr H thinks was unfair. He says the missed payment was an oversight and he made 
a £3 payment later that January. But I find Santanders decision was understandable. 
By the time Santander had sent its default notice, the overdraft debt had remained 
substantially unpaid for a significant amount of time, and the large payment H hoped 
to receive hadnt materialized in December 2019.
H was going through a very difficult time financially. But Santander werent obliged to 
suspend action until such time that H had recovered. Instead, Santander had given H 
a reasonable time to repay the overdraft debt and H hadnt been able to do this. Im 
satisfied in this context that Santanders decision to record a default was 
understandable. The default represented an accurate indication that H was unable to 
repay the overdraft under the terms of the account.
I am satisfied Santander acted reasonably by requiring H to follow its change of 
address process, and that this explained why online access to Hs other accounts 
was removed after Santander received correspondence back as return to sender. Im 
also satisfied that Santander was following a reasonable process by not speaking to 
the other director of H over the phone when they didnt have the appropriate authority 
in place. I appreciate these obstacles would have been frustrating, but its important 
for Santander to have security measures in place to protect customers accounts and 
information.
I understand why Santander wanted to only speak to Mr H over the phone when 
discussing Hs overdraft debt. Speaking on the phone offers a flexible way to come to 
an arrangement, whereas written exchanges can prolong matters. So, while I 
understand Mr H wanted to communicate in writing, I find Santander communicated 
with him reasonably in this regard.
What Santander ought to have done better
In July 2020 Santander communicated that it would temporarily remove the default 
marker on the condition that H made a token payment each month and that the 
overdraft was cleared within six months. They reviewed their decision shortly 
afterwards and decided not to proceed any further because the sum owed was too 
large, and the default had been correctly recorded. I find Santander could change 
their position, so I am not recommending that they remove the default. But I find them 
changing their decision does represent poor service which may have inconvenienced 
H.
Santander has the discretion to close accounts and terminate a relationship with a 
customer. And I havent seen a good reason to interfere with the exercise of their 
commercial discretion on this occasion. But Santander still need to give reasonable 
notice to H and give the correct notice period under their terms and conditions.
The closure of the business current account to which the overdraft was attached was 
fair. H hadnt paid back a significant debt and had breached a contractual term. And, 
even if Santander had given H a longer notice period, the account was unlikely to be 
utilized in any meaningful given it couldnt be used until the overdraft was repaid. 
I am not persuaded, however, that Santander has provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that immediately closing Hs other accounts in September 2020 was 
fair. So, like our investigator, Im satisfied that they should have given H two months 
notice before the accounts closed and allowed H access to those accounts during 
this time. H was likely caused inconvenience in terms of having to quickly make 
alternative arrangements.
H was not owed funds by Santander. The large payment made towards the overdraft debt was not enough to clear the debt entirely. So, Santander used the remaining 
balance held in another of Hs accounts to offset much of the remainder, and they 
wrote off the small amount which was still left. But it does seem that Santander could 
have clarified the situation on whether H was owed any funds earlier, given H 
couldnt clarify this itself as access to the accounts had been removed. I find this 
likely caused H some inconvenience.
Putting things right
Im satisfied £200 is reasonable compensation to make up for the avoidable inconvenience 
H experienced as a result of Santanders errors. I understand Mr H believes H should 
receive a larger sum. But I have borne in mind that my role is not to award compensation to 
penalise Santander, but instead its to award compensation for the impact their errors had on 
H.
I dont find the errors Santander made warrant a greater sum, and ultimately Im satisfied 
Santander acted reasonably when deciding to revoke the overdraft and later to record a 
default. Mr H was impacted personally by Santanders actions, but as I explained previously 
this is not something I can compensate H for.
Subject to H accepting my final decision, I direct Santander UK Plc to pay H £200.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Hs complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay H compensation in 
accordance with my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman