DRN-2621421
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about how much Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
has offered him as the market value of his car following a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr F made a claim on his motor insurance policy after an incident. The 
car was deemed to be a total loss.
Advantage offered Mr F what it said was the market value of the car, based on valuations 
from two trade guides. The valuations were:
 
 Glasss market value manager - £15,390
 CAP market value manager - £15,221
Advantage offered the average of these two figures, which was £15,306. Mr F was unhappy 
with the amount Advantage offered as he said it didnt reflect the true market value of the 
car. He said it would cost him more to replace the car.
Our investigator thought the valuation put on Mr Fs car by Advantage was fair. Mr F didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Let me explain why.
 
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs insurance policy with Advantage say:
If your car is damaged or lost because of an accident, vandalism or malicious damage there 
are three ways your policy can help you get back on the road again. Your insurer will do one 
of the following:
 Pay for any necessary repairs
 Replace your car
 Pay the market value of your car immediately before the loss.
The insurer chooses which option to take, and in Mr Fs case it chose to pay the market 
value of his car.
Advantages definition of market value is set out below: 
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
We dont decide the market value of the car. But well look at whether the insurer has 
reached its offer in line with how it says it will in the policy, and see if we think its 
reasonable. To decide if an offers reasonable, well look at the valuations the insurers 
received from the main trade guides, and whether its offer is consistent with them. Trade 
guides give a better idea of valuation than adverts, as theyre based on actual sales at the 
time of an accident or loss. Adverts are less accurate as the sale price is often negotiated 
down from the advertised price.
 
Advantage has used two of the three guides we would generally use  Glasss and CAP. Its 
sent us evidence of the valuations it took from the guides after it received the claim. Ive also 
checked the guides Advantage used, and come up with broadly the same valuation figures 
as Advantage.
Advantage offered Mr F the average of the two valuations from Glasss guide and CAP. So I 
dont think its offer is unreasonable. Its calculated its offer in line with how it says it will in the 
policy.
Mr F says he couldnt buy the same car for the amount Advantage has offered. Hes sent in 
some adverts which he says show this. But as Ive said, the actual market value is likely to 
be less than the advertised price. So I wouldnt rely on adverts to decide if the offer was fair.
Mr Fs also said his car had recently had replacement tyres. But the guides take into account 
that the car is in mechanically sound condition. So I dont think this means the valuation 
should be increased.
Its not for me to decide the valuation of the car. I just need to look at whether Advantages 
offer is reasonable. And from everything Ive seen I think it is. So I dont think it would be fair 
to ask it to increase its offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman