DRN-2571210
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage that, until recently, Mr and Mrs G held with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. They say that when they re-mortgaged to increase their borrowing, Barclays 
put the existing debt onto the wrong rate, making the mortgage mis-sold. Mr and Mrs G have 
since moved to a new lender and in doing so, paid an early repayment charge (ERC). They 
say they did this because theyd lost faith in Barclays and believe that ERC should be 
refunded.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
In 2016, Mr and Mrs G took a mortgage of a little over £160,000; it was on a fixed rate of 
2.99% running for ten years, and subject to an ERC if repaid during that period. In 2017, 
they decided to borrow more money; a further advance of £64,000 on a ten-year fixed rate of 
2.39%, again with an ERC if repaid during the fixed rate period. 
Barclays issued an offer for a new mortgage of around £224,000. This showed the new 
mortgage as being set up with two sub-accounts. These were:
£160,000 on a fixed rate of 2.99% running until 2026; and
£64,000 on a fixed rate of 2.39% running until 2027.
The mortgage completed on that basis, but Mr and Mrs G later complained that Barclays had 
said all of the 2017 mortgage would be on the 2.39% rate, with the ERC on the outgoing 
mortgage waived. Barclays rejected the main thrust of the complaint but offered £200 
compensation for poor service and delay in dealing with the complaint. 
Our investigator considered that fair for the original complaint; but he noted that Barclays 
had been slow to deal with a subsequent request for information Mr and Mrs G had made of 
it. The investigator recommended Barclays pay a further £100 for that. Mr and Mrs G have 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, 
and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and 
their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. Mr and Mrs G have been quite prescriptive in 
telling us what evidence we should consider and Im aware theyre unhappy about what 
information has been provided and shared. 
Thats their prerogative but its only relevant here if I consider any delay and/or limitation in 
the provision of information and evidence has impacted on my ability to decide the complaint 
fairly. Its for me to decide if I have all the evidence I need to decide a complaint. Having 
considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im satisfied I have all that I 
need to determine the case fairly and reasonably. 
The starting point here is that a mortgage loan and a mortgage product are two different 
things. A loan is the underlying transaction in which money is lent; the product is the terms 
that sit on top. For example, an agreement to borrow £100,000 over 25 years at the lenders 
interest rate is a mortgage loan; an agreement that for the first two years a fixed interest rate 
rather than the standard rate will apply is the product that sits on top of the loan.
A product can be ported (that is, moved from one mortgage to another) either because 
someone is moving house or because they are re-mortgaging without moving. The most 
common reasoning for porting a product from mortgage to mortgage is to avoid having to 
pay an ERC when the existing mortgage is being closed down during the product period. But 
that means the product must be moved over unchanged; otherwise the ERC is chargeable.
Applying that to Mr and Mrs Gs situation, for them not to incur an ERC when re-mortgaging, 
it was entirely right and proper that the 2017 re-mortgage be comprised of two components; 
the further advance on the 2.39% product, and the balance of the existing mortgage on the 
2.99% product, ported from the 2016 mortgage. 
For all of the new mortgage to be on the 2.39% product would have meant ending the 2.99% 
product early (rather than porting it) which would have required Mr and Mrs G to pay the 
ERC attached to it. In simple terms, Mr and Mrs G could either have all of the new mortgage 
on the 2.39% product, or they could have their ERC from the existing mortgage waived; they 
couldnt have both. 
Its possible that one of the people they dealt with at Barclays explained things wrongly; its 
also possible Mr and Mrs G simply misunderstood what theyd been told. But even if the 
former was the case, the correct position was set out in the 2017 re-mortgage offer. I dont 
know how much of the content of the 2017 offer Mr and Mrs G read and assimilated, but Im 
satisfied it was laid out in a format approved by the regulator of mortgages, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
If the terms of the 2017 re-mortgage offer didnt match what Mr and Mrs Gs were expecting 
them to be, the time to make this complaint was when they received the offer, rather than in 
2019, two years after theyd completed the re-mortgage and agreed to be bound by its 
terms. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G later felt compelled to move to a new lender, having lost 
confidence in Barclays. That was their prerogative, but it was also their choice; one they 
made knowing an ERC would be payable.Mr and Mrs G say Barclays didnt deal with this complaint properly when they made it. The 
handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers. 
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, 
but there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about and it is intrinsically linked. As Im not upholding 
the main thrust of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, then it follows I wont be upholding any 
complaint and award any compensation for how their complaint was handled. Barclays has 
offered them £200; Ill leave it to Mr and Mrs G to decide if on further reflection they wish to 
accept that. If they do, they can contact the bank directly.
That leaves the slow response to Mr and Mrs Gs information request. It hasnt affected my 
decision on the underlying complaint. As I said earlier, even if Barclays inadvertently said 
something misleading regarding how the re-mortgage could be set up, it put that right in the 
written documentation, and Mr and Mrs G went ahead with the transaction in possession of 
the correct information. But for the poor service involved, Barclays should pay fair 
compensation, and I find £100 to be fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc 
to pay Mr and Mrs G £100. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman