DRN-3778037
Complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
In or around December 2016, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Mr S was verbally told the FIT payments and savings on 
energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the system would 
be self-funding. 
The CMC challenged whether Ps sales processes were actually followed during the 
sales meeting. 
The CMC says that the sales document relied on by our investigator, was not seen 
by their client. 
The CMC questioned why Mr S would buy solar panels if he had been told that he 
would receive no benefit until 7 years after the loan had been discharged. 
The CMC highlighted that Mr S had been sold an optional extra but this could not be 
fitted, so he was refunded the cost of it  but he was not given another quote with 
revised benefit estimates nor was the credit agreement amended. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 14 October 2022, I set out why I was minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. The CMC replied saying that Mr S did not sign the variation 
document relied on. Additionally, it added that after the contract was varied, Mr S should 
have been given a revised quote. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled getting started. Ive considered 
these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Shawbrook has also submitted a satisfaction questionnaire Mr S completed where he agrees 
that he was provided with sufficient information about the system before he agreed to it. He 
also agreed that the likely performance of the system was explained to him, including what 
that would mean in financial terms. Shawbrook has also sent in a screenshot of its records 
showing Mr S was sent a welcome pack.   
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr S was told that the cost of the system was £11,062. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £11,062. The total amount of credit is £11,062 and goes on to show that 
the total amount payable would be £17,176.80.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £144.26. But I note 
Mr Ss monthly payment is marginally different at £143.14 in his credit agreement  but I 
dont think this difference makes the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £11,062, it would 
cost Mr S more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr S has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period. 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £241.08, which results in an average monthly income of £20.09. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £192 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr S the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £661.56. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £144.26. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings on 
energy bills.
The CMC has highlighted that a handwritten sales quote sets out that the first-year benefit 
amount was £11,193 and is evidence of mis-leading information being provided to Mr S that 
induced him to enter into the contract. Shawbrook says this figure was entered into the 
wrong column in error, but these figures would have been discussed during the sales 
meeting, and it would have been clear to Mr S that he wouldnt be receiving that amount in 
benefit in the first year. 
I can see the figures in the first-year benefit column match that of the benefit amounts 
expected over a 30-year period set out immediately beneath the first-year benefit column.  
These figures are also set out in the sales quote. Given that these figures are repeated 
throughout the sales documents as the full benefit the consumer can expect over a 30 year 
period, I dont think its likely that the sales representative led Mr S to believe that he would 
achieve a benefit amount of £11,193 in the first year post installation. I think, as Shawbrook 
says, its more likely the figure was entered in the wrong column during the meeting. But I 
think its likely, during the discussions, it would have been clear to Mr S, that he wouldnt be 
receiving £11,193 in benefit in the first year following installation of the system. 
Overall, as Ive explained above, I think the benefit Mr S could expect to receive was made 
clear, and Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £144.26. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £144.26, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers 
version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales 
process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably 
find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income 
alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr S could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3672.28 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see what the solar panels are generating on 
average annually. Im satisfied that the system is performing at around the expected level of 
performance. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between to calculate the utility price and RPI 
inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the 
increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
Optional extra (Voltage optimiser) 
Mr S has said hed been quoted for a voltage optimiser (VO) but that couldnt be fitted on the 
day of installation, so he was given a refund for it. He says the credit agreement remained 
unamended and he was not given a new quote with revised benefit figures.
Shawbrook has sent in a contract variation document that Mr S signed agreeing to the 
refund instead of the supply of the VO. Additionally, it highlighted that Mr S completed a 
customer satisfaction survey several months after the installation of the panels confirming he 
was happy with the installation  he commented that hed asked loads of questions and all of 
his questions were answered. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss concerns, but it seems that the installer made it clear Mr 
S would not be receiving the VO, which Mr S accepted at the time as well as accepting the 
refund because of this. The credit agreement made it clear what interest Mr S was charged 
and as he was aware the credit agreement remain unchanged; I think its clear that he would 
still be paying the same amount of interest. The sales document also made it clear what 
benefit amount he would achieve due to the VO and I think its apparent that he wouldnt be 
getting this without a VO. 
Overall, while I can see Mr S didnt receive the VO, I think he agreed to vary the contract, 
received a refund and was given the opportunity to  raise any concerns about performance, 
and he appeared happy at the time. So, I dont think P had made any errors here that would 
enable me to uphold the complaint.
I have thought carefully about the CMCs comments regarding the validity of the variation 
document. The allegation that P has submitted a document with Mr Ss falsified signature is 
serious and not one we would accept without substantial evidence. Having reviewed it again, 
and in conjunction with other documents Mr S has signed, Im satisfied Mr S did sign it. I 
would add, that as explained in my provisional decision, Mr S also accepted a refund for the 
cost of the VO. If he wasnt happy with this variation, instead of signing this document, 
accepting the refund and saying he was happy with the installation during his satisfaction 
survey, I would have expected him to have raised his dissatisfaction  and Ive seen no 
evidence that he did. Overall, Im still satisfied that he was made aware that he wouldnt be 
getting a VO, and that he accepted the refund for this. 
I appreciate that Mr S wasnt give revised quotation document after the variation  but again 
as explained in my provisional decision, it was only the VO that had changed and the original 
quotation document made clear what benefit was associated with it. And I think its apparent 
that as Mr S wasnt going to be receiving a VO, he also wouldnt be getting the associated 
benefit. 
Mr S made the allegation that P misrepresented the system to him, and that during the sale 
he was assured the system would be self-funding. The issue about the VO that arose during the installation doesnt change what happened during the sale. So, I think the sales 
quotation document is still reliable evidence of the information he was given during the sale 
therefore, my view remains unchanged from that set out in my provisional decision. 
Summary
So having again carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that there were no untrue 
statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter into the contract for the system, and 
I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman