DRN-4227172
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax irresponsibly provided him with 
and increased the credit limit on, three credit cards, for which he was unable to afford the 
repayments. He further complained that Halifax failed to provide him with information he 
requested under the Consumer Credit Act.
What happened
Mr S advises that Halifax provided him with following credit cards (according to Halifaxs 
archived records):
Date/Initial Credit Limit Date/ Final Credit Limit
Card 1 December 2002/ £2,250 August 2007/£10,200
Card 2 October 2003/£3,000 August 2007/£13,350
Card 3 July 2004/£4,100 August 2007/£7,650
Mr S said that during this period even the most rudimentary credit check would have shown 
that he was obviously in serious financial difficulties with debts also owed to four other 
providers. He said the constant increases only fuelled his spiral of financial decline. 
In response Halifax pointed out that the accounts all defaulted on various dates between 
September 2008 and August 2012. He didnt complain until July 2022, so he was out of time 
for complaining in that it had been over six years since the cards were provided and the last 
credit limit increase. It also considered that Mr S would have been aware of his right to 
complain at the latest by August 2012 so he should have complained by August 2015.
Mr S further asked Halifax to provide him with copies of the credit agreements and the 
statements relating to each card. He had to chase up this request several times with different 
departments of Halifax.
Halifax apologised for not answering his queries regarding the archived documents. It sent 
him £100 for the inconvenience. It reiterated its position concerning Mr Ss complaint of 
irresponsible lending. It said that when Mr S applied for lending with it, it reviewed the 
information he gave on the application, as well as the information from the Credit Reference 
Agencies. His applications were accepted, and it gave him credit limits that were 
appropriate, based on its assessments at the time. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service an Ombudsman decided the complaint was 
one we could look at. After review by our Adjudicator, she said that no information about the 
lending is available. Also in view of the fact that the cards were issued up to twenty years 
ago and the last credit limit increase was in 2007, there are no records of the application or 
the checks carried out at the time of application and limit increases. Mr S is also unable to 
supply any  information. So she didnt think Halifax needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr S disagreed but hasnt supplied us with any more information. The matter has been 
passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although we do have information on our website concerning irresponsible lending, I have to 
consider the rules that applied at the time of the issue of the cards and the increases in the 
credit limit. Prior to 2007 the FLA (Finance & Leasing Association) Lending Code applied. 
The 2004 code was preceded by various lending and banking codes but the essential 
information regarding lending was the same. The 2004 code is the earliest available, but as 
I shall say below I wont be able to consider whether the lending was carried out in 
accordance with any particular code. As a guide to the sort of matters Halifax would have 
been expected to take into account, para 6.2 of the 2004 code said
As responsible lenders, we will make sure that all lending (including unsolicited pre-
approved loans and credit card cheques) will go through a sound and proper assessment. 
This assessment may look at: 
your ability to repay; 
your income and commitments; 
how you have handled your financial affairs in the past; 
information from credit reference agencies and, with your permission, other people, for 
example, employers, other lenders and landlords; 
information you have supplied, including proof of your identity and why you are applying 
for credit; 
credit assessment techniques, for example, credit-scoring (see paragraph 6.3 below); 
your age; 
where you live, although this will not be the only thing that affects your application; 
any security you have provided (such as your home).
And para 6.6 said
Before we raise your credit limit on a credit card or overdraft, we will reassess your ability to 
pay.
The cards were issued respectively in December 2002, October 2003, and July 2024. All 
have defaulted over the period from 2008 to 2012. In respect of Card 1 the debt is with 
Halifaxs recoveries department and Mr S is paying £10 a month. In respect of Cards 2 and 
3, the debts have been sold to third parties. In respect of all the lending Mr S says that at this time he also had a Halifax personal loan 
account (which he isnt complaining about) He says that even the most rudimentary credit 
check would have shown that he was obviously in serious financial difficulties with debts also 
owed to four other providers.
I think its fair to assume that Halifax did do checks at the time of each application and credit 
limit increase. But the extent to which it did those checks is unknown. So is what was likely 
to have been revealed by those checks. In particular, Mr S isnt able to send us any 
evidence of his income and expenditure at the time of each application or each credit limit 
increase. So, Im unable to say whether Halifax should have been aware of his financial 
position or whether that would have affected its decision to lend to him and/or increase the 
credit limit. 
So, in respect of the issuing of the three credit cards and the increase in credit limit,  I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence for me to make a finding that Halifax acted irresponsibly.
As regards Mr Ss request for information, I think that Halifax acted reasonably in paying him 
£100 for the inconvenience caused to him for having to chase around various departments 
to get an answer. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman