DRN-3843058
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has handled a claim 
he made on his fridge freezer insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr B has a policy covering his fridge freezer, provided by D&G. He reported a fault 
with it and D&G agreed to replace it.
Mr B said the delivery team damaged his flooring. D&G said this damage wasnt 
covered by the policy, but it would help him claim the cost of putting things right from 
the delivery team, which is a separate company, W.
W asked Mr B for quotes to repair the flooring. Mr B said he had a spare matching 
floorboard that he paid a tradesman £100 cash to replace, so he had no quote or 
receipt to provide. W didnt offer to pay Mr B anything. He complained to D&G.
D&G apologised for the inconvenience caused and said it upheld the complaint. But it 
didnt offer to do anything. It said Mr B should send a quote to W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G have been unclear about their role, which hasnt helped matters. On the one hand it 
says W is responsible for a claim about any damage it caused delivering the fridge freezer. 
On the other, its taken an active role in the dispute. And it has said it would take over the 
claim if W doesnt accept it.
This approach has caused unnecessary confusion and delays to a dispute that ought to 
have been straightforward to resolve. D&G seems to have recognised something went 
wrong because it upheld Mr Bs complaint  but it didnt take any meaningful steps to put 
things right.
As I understand it, D&G appointed W to replace the fridge freezer. As such, W was acting as 
D&Gs agent and helping D&G to fulfil the terms of its insurance policy. In these 
circumstances, D&G is ultimately responsible for the actions of W  and should have taken 
responsibility for resolving any concerns raised by Mr B.
Neither D&G nor W has disputed that W caused damage to Mr Bs flooring. Nor does either 
company dispute that £100 is a reasonable amount to put right that damage. Instead, W has 
repeatedly insisted that an invoice is necessary in order to settle the dispute  despite Mr B 
explaining clearly and reasonably why he doesnt have one. Given the low cost involved and 
the nature of the work, I dont find that unusual or unreasonable.
Im not satisfied D&G has treated Mr B fairly. Im persuaded it would be fair for it to pay £100 
to reflect the cost of putting right the damage. And a further £100 in compensation for the 
avoidable inconvenience caused to Mr B by the way D&G has handled things.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr B £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman