DRN-3628236
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Michael James trading as West Country Financial 
(Michael James) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr R was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so around October 2017 he contacted his existing financial adviser 
for advice. Because they didnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to advise on DB 
pension transfers, they referred Mr R to Michael James. I understand that around the same 
time, Mr R was in the process of making his choice to opt into the BSPS2.
In November 2017 Mr R had a telephone meeting with Michael James during which it 
completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. Amongst 
other things this, and the amendment note to the fact-find, recorded that Mr R was 44; he 
was married with two dependent children; he and his wife owned their home, which had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £135,000 over a remaining term of 11 years; they also 
owned two buy-to-let properties  one unencumbered and one which had a 100% interest-
only mortgage on it of around £178,000  providing a total rental income of £1,600 a month; 
they had £5,000 in savings; and their expected household income need in retirement was 
around £22,000 a year. Michael James also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to 
risk, which it deemed to be  balanced growth - a score of 6 out of 10.
On 16 November 2017 Michael James advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds Michael James deemed 
matched Mr Rs attitude to risk.
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to meet Mr 
Rs needs for early retirement at age 57, without incurring a reduction in income, with the 
flexibility to take greater amounts of tax-free cash; to provide the ability for Mr R to pass on 
his pension fund to his family in the event of his death as a tax efficient way of wealth 
planning; and to address Mr Rs concerns about the long-term security of his retirement and 
the new BSPS2 scheme.
Mr R accepted the recommendation and in March 2018 around £454,000 was transferred to 
his new personal pension.
Mr R complained in 2021 to Michael James about the suitability of the transfer advice Mr R 
says he received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) telling him about 
instances of mis-selling in relation to transfers out of the BSPS, so he asked Michael James 
to review the advice it gave him.
Michael James didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said it gathered all of the 
necessary personal information from Mr R including his personal circumstances, his 
objectives, his attitude to risk and his capacity for loss. And with this, along with analysis of 
the risk, benefits, advantages and disadvantages of transferring, it was decided that it was in 
Mr Rs best interests to transfer to meet his future requirements. It said Mr Rs pension had 
produced an average annual return of 5.1% since it began, outperforming the required 
critical yield by 1.5%, so there was no financial loss. It said it continues to believe the advice 
was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Michael James to pay compensation. In summary they 
said, the transfer wasnt financially viable because the growth rate required to match let 
alone exceed Mr Rs DB scheme benefits at age 57 wasnt likely achievable. They said 
Michael James only referred to the critical yield figure at age 65 in their suitability letter when 
the advice was based on a retirement age of 57. They also said there were no other 
compelling reasons to justify the transfer as being suitable  Mr R was 44 at the time and he 
didnt have set retirement plans; he couldve waited until closer to his desired retirement age 
and considered his financial situation then before making any decision to give up guaranteed 
benefits; Mr Rs concerns about the BSPS were a good enough reason to transfer - Michael 
James shouldve reassured Mr R about things; and in relation to death benefits, Mr R 
indicated he liked the DB schemes spousal benefit, but if lump sum death benefits were 
important he shouldve been advised to take out life cover  his disposable income meant it 
was affordable. They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr R wouldve likely remained 
in the DB scheme and moved to the BSPS2.
Michael James disagreed. It provided a substantive response, which while I have read in full, 
I havent set everything out here. In summary it said:
Its not evident that the investigator determined the case by reference to whether 
Michael James took reasonable steps to ensure its recommendation was suitable for 
Mr R  COBS 9.2.1R.
The investigators assessment placed disproportionate weight on the critical yield  
what it called a blunt tool.
Reference to the discount rate was not a requirement of any material rule or 
guidance Michael James was required to follow or a practice the FCA expected it to 
adopt.
The assessment fails to have regard for Mr Rs personal circumstances, in particular 
that he would not need to rely on the income in retirement from the scheme.
The assessment appears to be based on the flawed assumption that Mr R had the 
option at the time of transferring to the BSPS2 which is also based on a mistaken 
assumption that the BSPS2 would inevitably come into existence.Insufficient weight has been placed that Mr R clearly made an informed decision to 
proceed.
Causation has not been properly considered or assessed  there is no evidence to 
suggest that Mr R wouldve remained in the scheme and transferred to the BSPS2 (if 
this was an actual as opposed to a potential option) had he been advised to do so.
If Mr R has deviated from the recommended investment strategy, it cant be held 
liable for any alleged loss.
Michael James also asked for an oral hearing. It believes Mr R needs to be questioned 
further. It believes the investigators findings are in stark contrast to the evidence from the 
time and an oral hearing will ensure the complaint is fairly determined.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said while all of the 
necessary documentation might have been completed with Mr R, they still felt the advice 
was not in Mr Rs best interests. And in relation to the critical yield and discounts rates, they 
said they believed they were reasonable comparisons and they did not suggest reference to 
the discount rate was a mandatory requirement.
The complaint was therefore referred to me to make a final decision and to decide whether 
to hold an oral hearing. I turned down Michael Jamess request for an oral hearing because I 
was satisfied I could make a decision on the case fairly and reasonably without hearing oral 
evidence. So Im now providing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Michael James actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
I can see Michael James has argued that its regulatory requirement was to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave Mr R was suitable for it says it didnt have to guarantee 
or prove that it would ultimately be suitable. And I agree that under COBS, Michael James 
was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr R 
was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But additional regulations apply to advising on 
transferring out of DB schemes. These are set out in COBS 19.1.6G in which the regulator, 
the FCA, states that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Michael James should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
Michael James carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Rs 
existing BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice, Mr R didnt have the option to 
remain in the BSPS. As Michael James understood and documented, Mr R had received his 
Time to Choose information setting out his options as I referred to earlier on. Michael 
James also documented that Mr R was in the process of deciding to opt into the BSPS2 with 
the assistance of his existing financial adviser. So basing the analysis on the existing BSPS 
benefits was somewhat redundant and in my view wasnt helpful to Mr R.
I can see that in Michael James response to the investigators assessment, it said at the 
time of the advice it was not in a position to recommend a transfer to the BSPS2  it said 
weve adopted a flawed assumption that Mr R had the option at the time of transferring to the 
BSPS2. It said there was no certainty it would come into existence  it didnt exist at the 
material time. While the Time to Choose exercise was underway, I accept the BSPS2 
wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But details of the scheme had been provided  the BSPS2 
wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. 
And in my view, all of the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very 
optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be met. So I think it was reasonable 
for Michael James to have factored the benefits available to Mr R through the BSPS2 into its 
analysis and advice so that he was able to make a properly informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr R was 44 at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice paperwork that he 
would like to take retirement from age 57. The critical yield required to match Mr Rs scheme benefits at age 57 was set out in the TVAS report of 9 November 2017 and was 7.89% 
assuming Mr R took a full pension. No critical yield figure was produced on the basis of Mr R 
taking a cash lump sum and a reduced pension (despite the adviser recording Mr R as 
wanting access to the maximum tax-free cash.) The critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 57 was quoted as 4.19% per year if Mr R took a full 
pension. Again, no figure was provided based on taking a lump sum and a reduced pension.
But as Ive said above, Mr R remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases 
under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
Michael James also produced a critical yield figure based on the BSPS normal retirement 
age of 65, which was 6.29% based on a full pension. The critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 3.63% per year if Mr R took a full 
pension. Interestingly, and despite the advice seemingly based on Mr Rs target retirement 
age of 57, the adviser referred to the critical yield figure of 6.29% (age 65) in their  
recommendation report. I think the adviser shouldve referred to the higher figure of 7.89%, 
and provided their judgment on whether this was likely achievable instead, as this was the 
more appropriate comparison for Mr R.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4% per year for 12 years to retirement (age 57). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
balanced growth attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be 
little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 57 was 4.19%, which was based 
on Mr R taking a full pension through the PPF. It was 7.89% if Mr R took benefits at 57 
through the existing BSPS. So, based on taking the same benefits at age 57 through the 
BSPS2, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely 
closer to 7.89%. This was significantly higher than the discount rate and only marginally 
below the regulators upper projection rate.
So, given this, together with this fact that Michael James ultimate investment 
recommendation appears to reflect a slightly lower overall risk profile than Mr Rs assessed 
capacity for risk (according to the providers fact sheet it was a moderately cautious / 
balanced profile fund), I think it was clear that Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 at retirement, as a result of investing in line 
with the recommended investment risk approach. In my view, to have come close to 
achieving the level of growth required, would have required Mr R to take a higher level of 
investment risk than I think he indicated he was prepared to take.
The critical yield required to match the benefits available through the PPF was 4.19%. This 
was still higher than the discount rate and although marginally lower than the middle 
projection rate, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits by transferring if the 
scheme moved to the PPF was limited.I can see that Michael James has said there was no regulatory rule or guidance requirement 
to refer to the discount rate. And I accept businesses didnt have to refer to it. But while I 
havent based my findings solely on this, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration 
when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of 
the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits 
likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses, like Michael James, were free to use the discount 
rate as this was considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, 
Ive considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which 
providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Rs 
recommended investment risk approach, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse 
off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
I can also see that Michael James says that the critical yield is of limited relevance here  it 
is a blunt tool - because it assumes Mr R would purchase an annuity on the same basis as 
the benefits provided by the DB scheme and she wasnt likely to do that. But I dont think the 
importance of the critical yield figure should be downplayed here. I still consider it gives a 
good indication of the value of benefits Mr R was considering giving up. Its also the case 
that the regulator required Michael James to provide it and so deems it a necessary and 
important part of the decision-making process. So Michael James needed to provide an 
analysis based on the critical yield and I think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly 
given Mr Rs circumstances and the fact that I dont think he could realistically say with any 
certainty whether he would want to take a fixed regular income at retirement or not. Mr R 
wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 13 years or more  so its entirely possible that 
he would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement, which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the DB scheme.
Ive also thought about Mr Rs capacity for loss. While Mr R had other sources of income he 
expected to continue into retirement in the form of two investment properties, Im mindful that 
rental income is not guaranteed. And as I will go on to discuss later on, Michael James 
advice also appears to have ignored the fact that one of Mr Rs investment properties had a 
100% interest only mortgage against it, which would likely need repayment at some point 
meaning the property might have to be sold to raise the necessary funds. So as his only 
guaranteed and primary source of private pension provision at this time, I dont think Mr R 
could afford to absorb losses on his pension.
Ive also considered the cashflow models Michael James produced at the time, which it says 
shows Mr R wouldve been able to meet his retirement income needs. Firstly I can Michael 
James said in the suitability letter that its modelling showed that, to match Mr Rs initial 
pension at 57, a fund of £495,000 (the mid-rate growth by age 57) would need to provide 
returns net of all charges of 3.55% a year. So based on the charges Michael James 
indicated Mr Rs pension monies would be subject to, this would need an annual return of 
just under 5%. But this appears to be based on Mr R taking the same level of income he 
could take from the DB scheme. As I said above, there seems little point in Mr R giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. And given the level of return required, I think this would 
likely be the case.
I can see that Michael James indicated in the suitability report that the five-year annualised 
rate of return for the recommended fund was 10.16% per year. But as Michael James will 
know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
Michael James modelling also set out scenarios in which Mr R took his tax-free cash lump 
sum and then took income to supplement his rental income to meet his required income 
need of £22,000 a year rising with inflation. This showed Mr Rs fund would last well beyond 
age 119. But I can also see this assumes Mr R ceases taking money from his pension 
around 67 instead relying on his state pension, his buy to let income and his wifes pension 
to show how he could build his pension savings throughout his lifetime  presumably 
demonstrating how the recommendation could meet his lump sum death benefit objective. Ill 
explain later on why I dont think Michael James shouldve prioritised lump sum death 
benefits over Mr Rs security in retirement and that Im not persuaded Michael James 
properly explored the extent to which Mr R was prepared to sacrifice a higher income in 
retirement in exchange for better death benefits.
So, based on financial viability alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. I 
think even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Rs benefits were reduced, he was 
unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. But I 
accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Michael James has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility, access to greater tax-free cash and income needs
One of the key reasons Michael James recommended the transfer was to meet Mr Rs need 
for early retirement at age 57 and not suffer a reduction in income, with the flexibility to take 
greater amounts of tax-free cash or income rather than the regular income option from the 
DB scheme.
But Im not persuaded that Mr R knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at 
this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr R was 44 at the time of the advice. And while I accept its possible he might have given 
some thought to his retirement, given it was still many years away, I dont think he had 
anything that could reasonably be described as a set retirement plan. And I think the 
evidence from the time supports this. For example, the various pieces of advice paperwork 
make seemingly different references to Mr Rs intended retirement age  the pension 
transfer questionnaire referred to 57/58 while in the fact-find the adviser recorded: Mr R 
wants a pot of around £750-800k if possible after 55 to maybe 60/62 in addition to: Plenty 
of years to go before retirement and planning to lessen risk closer to age 55. No set date yet 
as promotion in work due to many people retiring.  So it strikes me that, like most people if 
asked, Mr R liked the idea of retiring early, but I think its clear that this wasnt a firm 
objective.
Of course Mr R already had the option of taking early retirement before the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65 - didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. Mr R might have had to 
accept a reduced pension in doing so  but I think Michael James couldve done more to 
explain that this wasnt a penalty as it recorded Mr R believed it to be, but an actuarial 
reduction to reflect that Mr R couldnt expect to receive the same pension hed be entitled to 
at 65 ten years earlier because it would potentially be paid for longer. 
And similarly by transferring, this didnt mean that Mr R could draw the income he was 
entitled to from the DB scheme at 65 at age 57 without potential consequences. A shorter 
investment period followed by a larger income withdrawal could mean Mr Rs pension fund 
wouldnt be able to sustain this over his lifetime. I think a better explanation of this might have allayed Mr Rs concerns about being penalised for retiring early from the DB scheme.
I also accept Mr R couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose 
to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr R had to take those benefits at 
the same time. But nothing here indicates that Mr R had a likely future need to take a cash 
lump sum and defer taking his income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that 
Mr R had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement. So it strikes me that 
flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Rs at the time.
Despite this, importantly Mr R was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. And 
the nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr R with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Michael James recorded that a total of 16% of 
Mr Rs salary was being invested here  a combination of employer and employee 
contributions. So by age 57, without accounting for growth, salary increases or increases in 
contribution rate, this could be worth close to £100,000 and perhaps more. I think Mr R 
couldve taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took from it 
according to his needs. So, I think if Mr R retained his DB pension, this combined with his 
new workplace pension, wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what 
he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr R didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr R did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age. Michael James recorded that Mr R was 
in the process of choosing to opt into the BSPS2, so he wouldve retained the ability to 
transfer out nearer to retirement, if his needs later demanded it. I think Michael James 
couldve explained this more clearly to Mr R.
I can see Michael James recorded that Mr R might want to buy a holiday home abroad as 
well as embark on travelling in the first five years, so the larger tax-free cash available 
through a personal pension would be nice. Ive already said that I dont think Mr Rs 
retirement plans were set in stone. And specially in relation to the purchase of a holiday 
house abroad, Im not persuaded Mr R could know for certain thats what he wanted to do or 
would be able to do given the length of time to retirement. For example, property prices 
would likely change in the meantime and buying abroad also means that exchange rates 
could play a not insignificant part in terms of affordability.
Nevertheless, Michael James made no attempt to establish how much Mr R was likely 
contemplating spending  just that he wanted access to greater levels of tax-free cash. And 
by not attempting to do so, even as a ballpark figure, Michael James has not demonstrated 
that Mr R couldnt achieve things by remaining in his DB scheme and taking the tax-free 
cash option along with that from his DC pension. Furthermore, despite Michael James 
recording that both Mr R and his wife were likely to receive inheritances of around £300,000 
in total before their intended retirement, it did not consider the role this might play in helping 
Mr R to achieve his potential lump sum cash retirement objectives. 
While as I said earlier on, I also dont think Michael James considered when and how Mr R 
might need to repay the interest only mortgage which would ultimately become repayable  
and so he might need to use part of the future inheritance to clear this if he didnt want to sell 
it  I still think its entirely possible that Mr R could achieve his stated objective, if thats what he ultimately decided to do, without needing access to a greater level of tax-free cash than 
his DB scheme could provide.
Turning to Mr Rs income need  while I dont think Mr R had a true understanding of what 
retirement income he would need, and I cant see that Michael James carried out any 
detailed analysis of his likely expected income and expenditure in retirement, it was recorded 
as being £22,000 a year based on current living costs. And based on this, Ive seen nothing 
to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme didnt go ahead) 
wouldnt have provided  Mr R with a solid guaranteed income foundation upon which his 
other provision could supplement, to likely meet his overall income need.
For example, Michael James analysis showed that at 57, under the existing scheme Mr R 
would be entitled to an annual pension of around £17500. Because of the reduced 
revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but in my view still close to 
it. Although this alone wouldnt meet Mr Rs income need, his rental income of £12,000 net a 
year would supplement things. In addition, Mr R wouldve likely had a not insignificant 
amount in his workplace DC pension, which he could draw on flexibly, as and when needed, 
to top up his income or take a lump sum. Im mindful too that Mr R was intending to save his 
excess income in the years to his retirement to give him further scope to supplement his 
income / improve his standard of living before his state pension being payable and before his 
wife received her workplace and state pension. So it seems likely that if Mr R did decide to 
retire at 57 (by no means certain) and he opted to take the tax-free cash option to help 
support any lump sum cash need and accept a reduced pension as a result, he couldve still 
achieved his income need by remaining in the DB scheme and using his other means to 
supplement things. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr R wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr R would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it wouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, while Mr Rs retirement plans and 
needs werent formulated, he wouldve had his rental income along with his DC scheme and 
savings to draw on flexibly until his state pension became payable.
So overall, I think Mr R couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility or the option of a larger tax-free cash lump sum, that Im not 
persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
Michael James also recommended the transfer to provide the ability for Mr R to pass on 
what remained of his pension fund to his family in the event of his death. The fact-find 
recorded that while Mr R was happy for his wife to get the 50% spouses pension, he felt 
there was greater flexibility with the personal pot and it would stay in the family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning 
tool. And as I said above in relation to the cashflow forecasts, Im not persuaded Michael 
James explored to what extent Mr R was prepared to accept and draw a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr R 
said he was happy with the 50% spouses pension and I think it wouldve been useful to his 
spouse if Mr R predeceased her. I dont think Michael James made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr R. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, Michael James should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful too that Mr R already had lump sum death benefits available to him through his 
workplace DC scheme  he also had death-in-service benefit, which wouldve paid out in the 
event of Mr Rs death before retirement. And Mr R couldve nominated his wife and/or 
children as beneficiaries of these if he hadnt already done so.
But if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and/or children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think Michael James shouldve instead explored and ultimately recommended additional life 
insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report mentioned a whole of life policy, which was 
quoted at £337.85 a month and a level term plan quoted at 88.66 a month. The adviser 
recorded that Mr R said: 'the Whole of Life cover sounds quite steep... And although Mr R 
would consider the level term policy in the future, he preferred the option of transferring to 
allow for greater death benefits.
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr R. Despite 
Michael James recording Mr Rs death in service benefit and that he had life cover with his 
mortgage, it still based the quotes on a sum assured for the full transfer value. Basing the 
quote on the transfer value of Mr Rs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would 
pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr R wanted 
to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife, which would be a lot less than this if 
he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to 
have been to ask Mr R how much he would ideally like to leave to his wife, taking into 
account his existing cover above and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and affordable given Mr Rs 
monthly disposable income. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as a suitable alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I understand that Mr R, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His  
employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and so he 
was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of negative things 
circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr R was leaning towards the decision 
to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer, his negative perception of 
the PPF and his concerns about the BSPS2. But it was Michael James obligation to give 
Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken into account the benefits available to 
Mr R through the BSPS2, particularly as he was in the process of choosing to opt into it. I 
think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Rs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Michael James 
shouldve reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought or been led to believe. Importantly Mr R still had the option of taking early retirement 
through the PPF. Mr R didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I think the 
income available to Mr R through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his 
other means including his DC scheme could supplement to meet his overall income need at 
retirement. Crucially I dont think he was likely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr R might not have been able to 
later transfer out of the PPF  but given what I said earlier on about him already having a 
flexibility, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Rs concerns about his DB scheme was a compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr R was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Michael James wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R didnt have any firm retirement plans, so he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility or the option 
of having access to a greater level of tax-free cash that Im not persuaded he really needed, 
and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the 
BSPS2.
So, I think Michael James shouldve advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
As I said earlier on, Michael James believes it couldnt advise on the BSPS2 because there 
was no certainty it would come into existence  it wasnt an option at the time. I appreciate  
that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But as Ive already said, I think 
everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to have been the position Michael James 
adopted  I think it is fair and reasonable for it to have done so. And while Mr R indicated he 
wanted to retire at 57, as Ive already explained this was more than 12 years away and 
Mr Rs plans couldve changed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his best interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr R wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age - if his needs later demanded it. 
Also, because Mr R was married, his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at 
the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr R chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.So, I think Michael James shouldve advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Michael 
James advice. Michael James argues this is the case saying Mr R was attracted by the 
beneficial characteristics of the personal pension and their alignment with his objectives; he 
was attracted by the substantially enhanced CETV applying to the transfer; he had a desire 
to break all ties with his employer; and he wanted to avoid the risk of being transferred to the 
PPF.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Michael James advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr R was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Michael James, on 
balance, I still think Mr R wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened 
as they should have and Michael James had recommended he not transfer out of the 
scheme. Mr R was not in my view an experienced investor or someone who possessed the 
requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they was given, particularly in 
complex pension matters. Mr Rs pension accounted for a significant portion of his retirement 
provision at the time  so, if Michael James had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his employer or the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. Regarding Mr Rs desire to break all ties with his employer - its clear that he 
still worked for the same employer and he intended to continue to do so. Mr R was also a 
member of the new DC pension scheme. So, Mr R wasnt going to achieve a separation 
from his employer by transferring, as he would remain tied to his employer in other respects.
So if Michael James had explained this (as it ought to have done) and that Mr R could likely 
meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if 
Michael James had given suitable advice that he not do so and that he should opt into the 
BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think Michael James should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr R. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Michael James  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the 
emotional and practical impact this had on Mr R. Taking everything into account, including 
that I consider Mr Rs retirement provision is of great importance to him given its significance 
in his overall retirement income provision, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some 
distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved to the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given.Michael James must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Michael James should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Michael James should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Michael James offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Michael James may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Michael James should also pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience the matter has 
caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Michael James trading 
as West Country Financial to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Michael James trading as West Country Financial pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Michael James trading 
as West Country Financial.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman