DRN-3052621
The complaint
Mr J is complaining that it took too long for National Savings and Investments (NS&I) to
open his income bond, which cost him interest on his savings.  
What happened
Mr J had just moved home, and wanted to deposit some savings from his house sale into an
income bond with NS&I. He contacted them by telephone on 20 December 2019 to arrange
this. On the first day he spoke to them, there were numerous phone calls.
I have listened to all these calls to understand what happened and what Mr J was told. I will
reference all the relevant issues discussed, as well as my understanding of them. I have
listened to some of the calls more than once to ensure I have picked up the key issues,
when things were clarified, where mistakes were made, and what impact any mistakes had.
Unfortunately, due to the volume of communication here between Mr J and the business, the
timeline and the issues have become very convoluted and confused. So, what I will do is
focus on the complaint itself, and the key evidence relevant to that, in setting out what
happened below.
Initially, Mr J had been told that the business would need some ID documents to verify him
and open his account. He was told that provided NS&I received these within 30 days, he
would earn interest on the savings deposited from day 1 (20 December 2019). On that basis,
he opened an account on the phone with a £500 deposit to be taken from his debit card,
whilst he worked out the best way to transfer the remaining funds into the account. He was
also told he could deposit the rest of the savings later that day if he wished.
However, as the day progressed, and Mr J tried several times to arrange to deposit more
funds, and spoke to different advisors, it became clear that the information he had been
given originally wasnt correct as he didnt seem able to deposit his funds.
Eventually after asking to speak to a manager, the correct details were confirmed. He was
told that they could not open the account or transfer funds into it for him until they had
received and verified his ID documents.
In an early phone call, Mr J had been asked whether he wanted to provide his ID evidence
online, or by post. After confirming it wouldnt delay him earning interest, he said he would
provide it by post. There were quite long conversations about the methods by which he could
provide the ID electronically, before deciding to provide it by post.
Later the same day, when he spoke to the manager, this was clarified. At this point, they
apologised for any wrong information he had been given and explained that they couldnt
open the account or pay any money into it, until the ID evidence had been seen and verified.
Mr J was told that that the sooner he got his ID evidence to them, the sooner they could
open the account and he could deposit the funds. It was explained that the turn around to
receive and check it electronically was around 72 working hours, which might mean it would
be just after Christmas before it was open.
Mr J was asked at this point if he still wanted to open the account. He confirmed that his
financial advisor had said it was the best account, so he still wanted to proceed.
The advisors on the phone didnt appear to be able to see his application details on their
systems, which would have shown that it had been ticked as a postal supply of evidence.
So, they continued to talk him through how to provide it electronically. This caused more
confusion, as Mr J couldnt find the relevant links to click from an email that he was told he
should have, because he hadnt been sent the email. Similarly, they talked about a link on
the webpage he could click, but because he wasnt set up to provide evidence online, there
was no link for him to click on the webpage. Unfortunately, none of the advisors picked up on
this and worked out what the problem was.
By later in the afternoon on the first day, Mr J had raised the problems as a complaint. When
discussing this with the manager, he specifically asked whether in dealing with the
complaint, they would look to backdate his interest. He was told that when investigating the
complaint, if backdating interest was deemed to be required, they would do it, but that the
investigation and response to the complaint may take a few days.
There were then many further phone calls and some further things which went wrong over a
period of days and weeks. These included some scanning delays when Mr J posted his ID to
the business. But the crux of the complaint is when interest should be backdated to, so I will
focus on this.
In January 2020, when the account set up was completed, the funds were deposited. In
responding to his complaint, NS&I accepted they had got things wrong, and offered Mr J £75
as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused in their dealings with him.
They also then agreed to backdate the interest on the initial £500 deposit until day 1 (20
December 2019), and agreed to backdate interest for the remaining funds deposited to 31
December, as this was the day they first received his ID documents in the post.
Mr J does not accept this as a fair resolution. He has told us that he feels the £75 offer of
compensation for the distress and inconvenience from his dealings with them is far from
generous. He also feels that only backdating the interest to 31 December is not fair, as he
was told originally that they could backdate it to day 1, 20 December 2019, so he feels they
should honour this.
An investigator here investigated the complaint and felt that the business response was
fair, and they did not need to do any more. Mr J did not agree with this and has asked for
this to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 August 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
The key issue is around when the interest should be backdated to. The business has said
that they received Mr Js ID documents in the post on 31 December 2019, so this is the
earliest day he could have earned interest.
However, having listened to the calls, I am clear that Mr J initially made the choice to provide
the documents by post, only because he was told interest could be earned from 20
December 2019 provided the documents were received within 30 days. Once it became
clear this was not correct, the conversations later in the day then moved back to him
providing the ID electronically, to speed up the process.
Unfortunately, what neither Mr J, nor the advisors on the phone realised, was that he had
originally said he would post the ID. Because of this, the application had been set up on the
systems as postal, and this meant that the systems it seems would not provide him with theemail and link to provide the information electronically.
Having listened to all the calls, this was simply unfortunate conversations where Mr J, and
the advisors at the business were talking at cross purposes, without either realising what the
problem was. The advisors on the phone did not seem to be able to view Mr Js application,
so were asking him about his previous conversations. Understandably after so many
conversations in the one day, Mr J did not realise the significance of the earlier conversation
where he said he would post the documents.
When asked about how he could provide them, he said he would find a way to send them
electronically. He was asked once about whether this was his preference when he had
applied to open the account, but the significance of that question wasnt really explained.
Mr J didnt pick up on the relevance of telling the advisors later in the day that he had
originally said he would send the documents by post, and I dont think there was any way he
could have realised the relevance of this. He discussed the details he had been told before
about scanning the documents or photographing them, and an assumption seems to have
been made by the NS&I advisors that he had always planned to provide the evidence
electronically.
I am satisfied that if Mr J had known all along that the sooner he provided his ID documents,
the sooner he would earn interest, he would always have chosen to provide them
electronically.
It is confirmed in phone calls later that same day (20 December) that interest wont be
earned until his ID has been verified. In the calls with a manager, I am satisfied that it is
made clear to Mr J that the original information about earning interest from the 20 December
was wrong, and that the account couldnt be opened, and transactions could not be carried
out on the account, until the ID evidence has been received and checked. Once this has
been made clear to Mr J, he is frustrated, but wants to provide his documents electronically
to speed the process up.
At no point is Mr J told that because his application has been ticked to say he will provide the
documents by post, he wont be able to send them electronically. If he had been told this, he
may have decided not to proceed with the account opening or may have posted the
documents sooner.
He is told that once they receive his documents electronically, there is a 72 working hour
turnaround time for them to be checked. Its explained that whilst there is a small chance it
might happen before Christmas (2 working days), it might well be just after Christmas before
this could be completed, even if they received his documents immediately.
20 December 2019 was a Friday. His initial call was around midday, and I believe that if he
had been given the correct information at that time, he would have found a way to send the
documents in electronically straight away. If he had done this, I am satisfied that on balance,
the earliest the account would most likely have been open to accept the deposit of the bulk
of his funds would have been the first working day after Christmas, Friday 27 December
2019.
I am satisfied that 72 working hours to receive, check and verify his documents is a fair
timescale for the business to have worked to. They have told Mr J at around 4pm on 20
December that this is the likely timescale, and he has decided to accept this and proceed.
What this means, is that at this point, I feel that the fairest outcome here would have been
interest backdated to 27 December 2019. This recognises that this was the first day Mr J
could have realistically got the account open and deposited funds.Mr J feels that because he was told originally that interest would accrue from 20 December
2019, this should still apply. He also feels that because he discussed this when logging a
complaint, and asked about backdated interest, that the business should honour this. I have
listened to the phone call where he asked the question about backdating interest. No dates
are discussed by the manager, and no promise is given. She explains that when the
complaint is investigated, if the business has done anything wrong, backdating interest is an
option open to them to fix it.
In this instance, I also think its important to focus on what is fair. NS&I have investigated the
complaint and accepted that they gave Mr J wrong information initially and apologised. I am
also satisfied, having listened to the phone call, that Mr J understood by 4pm on 20
December that the account was not open, and funds could not be deposited, until his ID
evidence had been verified.
The call at that point in effect corrected the wrong information he had been given previously
that day. He was given the opportunity to cancel the application, having been told it would
most likely take until just after Christmas to get the account open and pay the funds in. I
accept that it was not explicitly stated in that call that interest could not be earned until the
account was opened. But I think in the circumstances, that it would be reasonable that a
customer would understand this. Mr J then wanted to get his ID across to the business as
quickly as he could electronically, which persuades me that he appreciated that time was of
the essence to earn interest.
I understand Mr Js frustration that this wasnt explained to him correctly up front. But I am
satisfied that once he became aware of the correct details and timeframes, he still wanted to
proceed with the application. This was later in the day on 20 December 2019.
The earliest date that I believe the application could fairly have resulted in him depositing his
savings was 27 December 2019. On this basis, whilst I think NS&I have tried to resolve the
complaint fairly, by backdating interest, they have not backdated it far enough. In the original
calls, if they had explained properly to Mr J that electronically providing his ID could mean he
would earn interest more quickly, he would have wanted to do this all along, and this would
have allowed him to potentially have the account open by 27 December 2019.
I dont feel that NS&I have done enough here to fairly resolve Mr Js complaint. Subject to
any further communications or evidence, I intend to uphold the complaint and require NS&I
to backdate Mr Js interest to 27 December 2019. If Mr J had been given the correct
information on the phone at the beginning, 27 December 2019 is the date I think it is most
likely he could have had the account open and paid the funds in.
In addition to this, I dont feel that £75 for the trouble and upset caused recognises the
amount of calls and confusion that occurred here. None of the advisors on the phone on 20
December seemed to be able to see Mr Js application to be able to spot the problem with
postal ID or electronic ID. This caused further stress for Mr J as they told him how to upload
his ID, but he was never going to be able to do this and had to keep calling in to find out
what was going on and ask someone else to help him try to send his ID electronically. I feel
that a total payment of £150 for the trouble and upset caused would be more appropriate in
these circumstances to recognises the stress and the inconvenience caused by the failings
in this process and the amount of time and frustration it took for Mr J to get his account
open.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions received by the due date, my provisional decision is that Iwill be upholding the complaint. Where NS&I backdated interest to 31 December 2019 in
their original offer, they would need to recalculate the account to backdate interest to 27
December 2019 for this portion of the deposited funds. In addition to this they would be
required pay a further £75 for the trouble and upset, in addition to the original £75 offered, so
a total of £150. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision and indicated their agreement with 
it, without any further comment. I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and 
the reasons for them.    
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint. I instruct National Savings and Investments to recalculate 
Mr Js account. Where they had backdated interest to 31 December 2019 in
their original offer, they need to recalculate this and backdate interest to 27
December 2019 for this portion of the deposited funds. I also instruct them to pay a further 
£75 for the trouble and upset caused, in addition to the original £75 offered, so a total of 
£150.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman