DRN-2568413
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society handled his fraud claim poorly and hasnt 
compensated him for this.
What happened
Mr D contacted Nationwide on 15 May 2020 to say he didnt recognise an online payment of 
£615 from his account. He was told that Nationwide would try and recover his money. But he 
says that it didnt keep him updated and this stopped him pursuing this further.
Nationwide issued a final response saying it wouldnt be refunding the money as the 
payment was made with Mr Ds security information including the use of his card in a card 
reader. It paid him £50 for not telling him when it found out that the bank who had received 
his money couldnt return it as there was nothing left.
When Mr D first referred his complaint to this service he wanted it to cover both the fraud 
and the service aspects. Our investigator discussed the evidence Nationwide had about the 
fraud itself and Mr D decided he didnt want to pursue that aspect any further. So, our 
investigator said he was looking at the customer service aspect of what happened. 
Nationwide had accepted that it could have told Mr D earlier on that there were no funds to 
recover. But he didnt see it had told Mr D not to pursue the matter with the police. Mr D had 
the beneficiarys account number and could have done so. And he didnt think that the final 
response letter said that Nationwide had wrongly closed his claim as Mr D said it admitted it 
had.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that Nationwide had told him it would contact him before he 
reported this to the police, and it failed him by not doing so. And he was told his case was 
closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the distress Mr D felt when he believed he had been subject to fraud. And that 
the actions of a fraudster would additionally have caused him inconvenience. Based on      
Mr Ds request now to this service and the information he has provided I wont be making 
any findings on the circumstances of how the payment came to be made. Nationwide told 
him that it thought the payment was authorised and I wont be in a position to say that this 
was incorrect.
Nationwide said it had requested the funds back when it first heard from Mr D and this was 
the correct thing to do. And it said that the receiving bank quickly told it there were no funds 
remaining. Mr D called it on 28 May 2020, and Ive listened to a recording of this call. 
Nationwide discussed with him how the payment was authenticated with a device hed used 
before and his security information. But it was then a mistake for it to say to him that it didnt 
know if the funds would be returned. The person he spoke to did say to Mr D that he could 
either report this to the police if he wanted when he logged the fraud or after the final 
outcome. He wasnt told he couldnt then report it. Nothing else was done by Nationwide and 
Mr D called on 29 June 2020 and was unhappy only then to be given that information and 
found out that he wouldnt be refunded.
Nationwide has clearly communicated poorly. But I need to think about the real implications 
of that for Mr D in this complaint. As I say he doesnt want us to look at his specific fraud 
claim. And I think that his reasons for that now mean that he wouldnt with hindsight really 
have wanted the police to look into it either. And that even if the police had done so that he 
wouldnt likely have wanted to pursue a criminal prosecution of the fraudster. So, I dont think 
that this has really affected his ability to recover his money from an unauthorised payment.
Nationwide has paid £50 for the poor communication and in light of what Ive said I wont be 
asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Nationwide need do no 
more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman