DRN-3215252
The complaint
Mr L complains about the cash oil positions in his Contracts for Difference account held with 
CMC Markets UK plc. He says when the market went into negative pricing, they moved his 
holdings to a December contract without giving him notice and causing him significant 
losses.
What happened
Mr Ls position
Mr L held Crude Oil West Texas Cash positions in his Contracts for Difference (CFD) 
account with CMC Markets UK plc (CMC). In April 2020, for the first time in history, oil went 
into negative pricing causing a dislocation in the market. He says this revealed a flaw in the 
algorithm that CMC use for cash commodity spot pricing - it didnt allow them to record 
negative pricing. He says this was a localised issue for CMC who were not able to deal with 
a negative cash commodity spot product and led to the actions they took. 
On 20 April 2020, they made the decision to roll over from the May to June contract and the 
following day decided to move from June to December contract. Mr L says other providers 
were able to deal with the negative pricing and continued to allow each contract to be priced 
individually whether negative or positive and so continued to trade as a cash commodity spot 
product. He says CMCs decision to move to a December contract meant it was no longer 
the same cash commodity spot product with oil prices that reflect the market and created a 
false market. 
In addition, he says he wasnt given sufficient notice of the changes and was tied into this 
new contract with large holding costs. He says the change in contract date meant the 
product was no longer based on the front months futures contract and was fundamentally 
changed from the product that he had originally invested in. He contacted CMC on 23 April 
2020 to complain about this and the holding costs. He says this caused him approximately a 
£7000 loss and a 220% increase in holding costs on the new contract. 
He also complains about the lack of transparency around the new product with insufficient 
information available and that CMC restricted trading on the June contract preventing him 
from closing his trades. He says this impacted his trading strategy and preventing him from 
making a profit. He would like to be paid for his loss of profit.  
CMCs position 
When Cash Oil prices went into negative pricing in April 2020, CMC say they had to act 
swiftly in order to protect the interests of the customers while the volatility continued. They 
say it is standard practice when the contract expiry is approaching to rebase its pricing to the 
most liquid near futures contract available in the underlying market at that time, which in this 
case was June 2020.
They say cash oil prices are affected by inferred holding rates which are impacted every time 
a change is made in the contract. These are inferred because they dont have a fixed 
continuous price (as is the case with other trades) and is calculated based on the difference 
in the mid-point of each contract  so for example where a contract is from 1st  30th April, 
the mid-point would be 15th April. The holding rates would be calculated based on the price 
difference between 15th April (current cash price) and 15th May (the mid-point of the nearest 
most liquid available contract). Any difference in price is then offset as holding costs during 
that trading contract. The price is recalculated and built into the new contracts with 3% 
applied as daily holding costs. 
 
CMC say that despite rebasing the price to June contract, the negative pricing meant the 
holding costs were very high so they had to rebase to a December contract in order to 
balance out the increase in holding cost.  They say they had to do this because:-
They needed to maintain stability in the cash price and safeguard against any continued 
fall, that could have led to another negative settlement price if rebased to the near month 
future contract. A further negative price meant they would not be able to offer the product 
for that future contract. 
They needed to reduce holding costs for their clients. These would have been around 
780% if rebased to the near month future contract, June. The June contract was trading 
at US$22.50 compared with US$0.45 in May. Even though December pricing was 
US$30.38, the expiry time being seven months later allowed for a period of convergence 
to create a discounted holding rate at 225%.
They say the terms of their User Agreement allows them to set their own prices, to make 
changes to those prices and without notice, so they were within their rights to do this. They 
also say they gave Mr L notice of these changes on 21 April 2020 at 17:06 and a further 
notice on 23 April 2020 with more detail.
They say the losses on Mr Ls account were based on the trading decisions he made. They 
say they informed Mr L of the decision they took and asked him to review his positions and 
take any steps he felt appropriate. They feel it is not reasonable to assume that his future 
trades would have been profitable if they hadnt taken this action  which they feel was 
reasonable given the extreme circumstances of the market and was not intended to 
negatively affect clients. 
Investigators view
Our investigator looked at the complaint and initially said, CMC had acted in accordance with 
the terms of the User Agreement and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L didnt agree and 
provided further information. Upon reconsideration, she upheld Mr Ls complaint in part. She 
explained that CMC had the discretion to make changes to the contract and that he had 
agreed to these terms; but she didnt think their exercise of that discretion was done in a fair 
way. She said he was notified after the changes were made to the contract and wasnt given 
the opportunity to void any trades without penalty. She also agreed with Mr L that CMC had 
fundamentally changed the product which he had invested in. She concluded that:-CMC Markets should put Mr L back in the position he wouldve been had he not 
opened his positions in the Crude Oil West Texas cash product around the time the 
changes were made on 21 April 2020. This means CMC Markets should unwind the 
trades that were opened between 20 to 21 April 2020 and were still open when the 
switch to the December 2020 futures contract was made, i.e. trades that were rolled 
over to the December contract. This should also include a full refund of the 
associated holding costs, and other relevant charges (if any). 
Im also recommending CMC Markets pay Mr L £250.00 for trouble, upset and 
distress he has suffered as a result of the way the changes were made.
CMC didnt agree with the investigator so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I will explain 
further.
I have started my investigation by looking at whether CMC had the contractual right to make 
the changes they did. Clause 9.3 of the user Agreement confirms that CMC can set their 
own prices and make changes to those prices without giving any notice. So, it is clear they 
are within their rights to set their own prices for their products and make changes to the price 
and products they offer - their terms give them the discretion to make those changes. 
Whilst it is not within my remit to tell a business what its terms and conditions should say or 
how it should operate, it is key to look at how CMC have exercised their discretion when 
making these changes. I would expect them be fair and reasonable in exercising their 
discretion and so must consider whether in this instance their action was exercised in this 
way or not.
CMC have explained how their prices are derived from the mid-point of the current contract 
and the mid-point nearest liquid future contract with any difference in prices offset against 
holding costs and 3%. I would expect their prices to be similar as they would follow crude oil 
prices in the underlying market but that doesnt necessarily mean they have to be the same 
because CMC set their own prices so some variation is expected. 
I have to consider what consumers would reasonably expect to happen when rebasing the 
futures contracts and pricing. Rebasing to the nearest most liquid future contract would be 
standard practice. The positions Mr L held had a May expiry and so the nearest liquid future 
contract would be June and this is what would reasonably be expected and usually happens. 
In Mr Ls case, the positions were all moved from June to December contract which was 
unexpected. CMC themselves have accepted that this is the first time theyve moved to a 
futures contract this many months ahead. I understand they say their reason for doing this 
was to stabilise the price to avoid a further negative price and to reduce the holding costs for 
consumers by relying on convergence over that period. However, the very act of making 
these changes meant the price was no longer derived the same way using the nearest liquid 
futures contract and fundamentally changed the product and was no longer the oil cash 
commodity spot product which Mr L had invested in.
So, this brings me onto thinking about whether Mr L should have been informed of these 
changes. As mentioned above, I accept that changes to the pricing of its products does not 
require CMC to notify its consumers. However, where the change is of such significance that there is a fundamental change in the product, would it be fair to tie Mr L into a futures 
contract for a product he never invested in without informing him or giving him to option to 
cease the trades? CMC say they did inform Mr L of these changes in an email to him on 21st 
April 2020 at 17:06 but looking at the date and times, this notification was sent after his 
positions had already been transferred an hour and 43 minutes before. So, I think it was a 
reasonable expectation that CMC should have notified him of this change prior to making it. 
In the event where they were unable to give him prior notice, they should at least have given 
him the opportunity to cease any trades without penalty.
Ive also considered what information Mr L was given in the notification and whether this was 
sufficient in allowing him to make an informed choice on what to do next. CMC offer a non-
advisory execution only service so they werent responsible for the trading decisions he 
takes but they must give him information that is clear and not misleading in order for him to 
make an informed decision. So, I looked at the contents of the communication to him and 
would ordinarily say that the level of detail is insufficient in informing the consumer what the 
real impact of such a change was. However, with someone of Mr Ls calibre and trading 
history, I believe it was clear enough that he would understand the significance of these 
changes. 
In his email to this service in March 2021 he accepts he worked out what the notice meant 
himself, the day after he received it. 
In fact that e-mail contained a more relevant detail, that I missed on first read, and 
worked out for myself the day later from the WTI cash product signal itself, in that 
CMC changed the peg of the Texas product from the immediate closing contract of
June to the December contract, while locking clients out of being able to trade the 
front end June contract. This was the change in algorithm - and it cost clients holding 
the WTI cash product a considerable sum of money.
Given Mr Ls experience, I feel he was in a position to understand the impact of these 
changes and make an informed decision to mitigate any further losses that would have been 
incurred on these positions. This leads me to conclude that any trades made after the 
notification to Mr L was his own trading decision so I dont think it would be fair to hold CMC 
responsible for any losses on these later trades. 
In terms of trades that were opened between 20-21 April 2020 and moved to the December 
contract before notifying Mr L, I am satisfied that he opened these positions when he 
believed it was a oil cash commodity with a near month futures contract. Through no fault of 
his own, there was a fundamental change in the product which meant it was no longer the 
same product he invested in and so I think it would be unfair for him to bear any losses as a 
result of CMCs decision to make those significant changes to it. 
It is difficult to say what he would have done had the positions stayed at the June contract 
and whether he would have continued with the positions or closed them. With the market 
conditions being as they were, I feel any speculation on this will largely be dictated by the 
benefit of hindsight. Im also not persuaded that Mr L would have still invested in the oil 
positions had he been informed of these changes beforehand because it was a specific cash 
oil product that he was looking to invest in and the changes CMC made, meant it was no 
longer that product. So, I think its only fair that CMC should have given him the opportunity 
to exit those trades.  As I dont think he would have invested in these positions had he 
known about these changes, it follows that he wouldnt be paid for loss of profits on positions 
he wouldnt otherwise have invested in. Putting things right
CMC should put Mr L back in the position he would have been in had he not opened his 
positions in the Crude Oil West Texas cash product. They should unwind the trades that 
were opened between 20 to 21 April 2020 and were rolled over to the December contract 
before notice was given to him. This should also include a full refund of the associated 
holding costs, and any other relevant charges that were applied. 
The way in which the changes were made to the oil positions and the uncertainty of it, in 
addition to the holding costs caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr L. CMC 
should also pay Mr L £250.00 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
As explained, I will not be asking CMC to pay Mr L for loss of profits. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint against CMC 
Markets UK plc. They should unwind all trades that were opened between 20 to 21 April 
2020 and were rolled over to the December contract. 
In addition, they should pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman