DRN-2704038
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by True Potential Wealth Management LLP (True 
Potential) regarding the transferring of servicing rights to it.
What happened
The background to this decision was set out in my provisional decision. The circumstances 
of this case arent in dispute so I wont set them out in detail again here.
In my provisional decision, I said that whilst True Potential had provided a fair explanation of 
events and paid Mr H compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  Id 
concluded the award should be increased from £250 to £450.
I gave my reasoning for this, which was that the errors wouldve had a totting up effect on Mr 
Hs frustration and upset with the handling of his pension servicing. There had been a 
number of errors and miscommunications regarding filling in the correct forms. This wouldve 
caused a lot of frustration to Mr H. And furthermore, there was an unfortunate template letter 
sent out that wouldve distressed Mr H further.
In response to my provisional decision True Potential said it accepted the decision. Mr H 
said that he felt the figure was still too low. He didnt agree that True Potentials explanation 
of the letter referring to his then late adviser (and personal friend) was plausible. And he also 
raised points about the performance of his investments with True Potential.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as detailed in my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mr H remains unhappy but as I explained in my provisional decision, True 
Potential accepted its mistakes and provided an explanation that was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H has raised issues regarding the performance of his investments with True Potential and 
appears to be measuring the compensation against the losses he says hes incurred on his 
investments. However, these issues dont form part of this complaint. Mr H if he wishes to do 
so, needs to raise this with True Potential so that it has an opportunity to look into matters 
first. So we cannot add these issues onto this complaint which is about the transfer of his 
servicing rights. 
Mr H has also said that he does not accept the explanation given by True Potential about the 
letter referring to the late adviser who was a personal friend of Mr H. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, the evidence fits with True Potentials explanation. It being a template 
letter sent by a member of staff unaware that the adviser (who had previously joined True 
Potential from another firm) had sadly passed away. Its explained why the advisers name 
was still held on the system. True Potential has apologised, offered compensation and 
provided an explanation for the letter. I know that Mr H continues to disagree with the 
explanation put forward, but Im satisfied it was a genuine mistake. And Im satisfied the 
award I concluded in my provisional decision, fairly compensates Mr H for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
So it is for these reasons that my decision remains the same as outlined in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
True Potential Wealth Management LLP should on Mr Hs acceptance of this decision, pay 
Mr H £450 in settlement of this complaint. If it has already paid the £250 it offered previously 
to Mr H, it will only need to pay an additional £200.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP and direct it to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman