DRN-3596769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the length of time taken by Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax) to agree an application for them to port (transfer) their mortgage onto a 
new property.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs H would like Halifax to compensate them for the distress 
they suffered when they lost their dream home, which, if it now came on the open market, 
would be unaffordable for them. They consider the compensation paid by Halifax to be 
derisory.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 17 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Halifax originally taken out in 2007. It was on an 
interest rate product taken out in 2019, on the advice of Mr and Mrs Hs own mortgage 
broker, a business Ill refer to as SGL. 
All but about £2,000 of the £173,000 loan amount was on an interest-only basis on a product 
numbered FBC853. If the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 2023, an early repayment 
charge would apply, on a tapering scale from 3.00% down to 1.20%. 
The mortgage offer also states:
You do not have the right to transfer this loan to another property
Additional Features:
In the future, you can apply for a new loan on another property. If Halifax agrees to 
the new loan you can take the following product(s) and any early repayment charge 
with you for the remainder of the product rate period (s). New loan applications are 
assessed in line with the lending policy at that time which may, for example, affect 
the repayment method, loan amount or term. The new loan will be subject to the 
terms and conditions in force when you make our application. [my emphasis]
The product in question was FBC853 relating to the interest-only part of the mortgage.
On 22 March 2021 Mr and Mrs decided to move home as theyd found what they have told 
us was their dream property. They contacted SGL to ask if the mortgage was portable. 
After several emails back and forth with SGL, Mr and Mrs H were advised that they would 
not meet Halifaxs affordability criteria to port the mortgage.
On 23 March 2021 Mr and Mrs H contacted Halifax direct, when they were told they would 
need to go through a new application before a decision would be made. They were unhappy 
about this and complained. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that Mr and Mrs H 
had no repayment vehicle for the mortgage. In its final response letter dated 6 April 2021 the 
bank reiterated that a fresh application would need to be made, when the bank set out the 
steps required in order to transfer a mortgage interest rate from a mortgage on one property 
onto a mortgage on another property.
An application was set up on 7 April 2021, but the application wasnt completed until 
12 April 2021. The application was initially declined by underwriters, but was appealed and 
referred to stakeholders. Further information was requested on 16 April 2021 and 
20 April 2021 and Mr and Mrs H complained again about the length of time the application 
was taking. 
The application was approved on 26 April 2021, but by that time someone else had agreed 
to buy the house Mr and Mrs H had set their hearts on. They say they were devastated and 
since that time have struggled to come to terms with the loss of the house. Mr and Mrs H 
also alleged they were mortgage prisoners as they were being forced into staying in their 
current home instead of moving to their dream property.
Halifax acknowledged there had been some delay, but said that, overall, the application had 
taken 13 business days to be approved. The bank paid compensation totalling £600 for any 
trouble and upset.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
They said that, if Halifax had applied the transitional arrangements set out in the Mortgages 
and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), thered have been no need 
for them to have to apply for a new mortgage. They said there was minimal risk to Halifax, 
and they are completely numb as a result of what they were put through by Halifax. 
Mr and Mrs H couldnt understand why Halifax needed to look at affordability when theyd 
never missed a payment.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Halifax needed to do anything 
further. She explained that, even with a porting request, a fresh application had to be made. 
The investigator explained that, whilst the transitional arrangements allowed Halifax to 
disregard an assessment of affordability, there were other reasons why the application was 
declined, but later agreed as an exception by stakeholders.
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax to request further information, but that 
this could have been done at the start of the application. Overall, the investigator was 
satisfied that the compensation of £600 was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They say that it was only four weeks down the line when a third 
party drew their attention to the transitional arrangements. Mr and Mrs H say that, if Halifax 
had applied these at the start, they would not have lost out on their dream home and had to 
experience all the anguish this has subsequently caused them. Mr and Mrs H maintain that 
the sole reason they lost out on the property was because Halifax failed to apply the 
transitional arrangements and instead went ahead with an affordability assessment.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have some disappointing news for Mr and Mrs H; Im not 
upholding their complaint. These are my reasons.
First of all, Mr and Mrs H are not mortgage prisoners, as they claim. A mortgage prisoner is 
a borrower who may or may not have had payment difficulties in the past, but because their 
lender is either unregulated or a closed book lender, the borrower is unable to access new 
interest rates, and the borrower is paying a standard variable rate that is higher than rates 
available to other customers with similar circumstances whose mortgages are with different 
lenders. That is not the situation which Mr and Mrs H are in  they are free to repay their 
mortgage and take out another at any time. They are not being forced to stay with a closed 
book or unregulated lender, with no access to interest rates other than standard variable 
rate. 
Mr and Mrs H are also mistaken in their belief that porting a mortgage interest rate product 
doesnt require them to make a new mortgage application. In fact, the mortgage offer from 
2019 is quite explicit about the need for this. 
As both Halifax and the investigator explained, when a mortgage interest rate is ported onto 
a new mortgage, it requires the existing mortgage to be closed and repaid, and a new 
mortgage taken out, which requires a fresh application. Its not simply a question of 
swapping the existing mortgage onto a new property. Halifax is entitled to assess whether 
or not the application meets its criteria, not just in terms of affordability, but in relation to 
other criteria around suitability of the property and the expected repayment vehicle.
The crux of this complaint is whether Halifax was right to carry out an affordability 
assessment for this mortgage application, or whether, in all the circumstances, it should 
have allowed Mr and Mrs H to port the mortgage interest rate product on a like-for-like basis 
with no assessment of affordability.
Halifaxs lending policy is a matter for its own commercial judgement, and I dont have the 
power to substitute my own lending decision for that of the bank. However, Id expect the 
bank to consider requests and applications on their own individual merits and to take 
account of individual circumstances  and to consider making exceptions where appropriate, 
in line with the banks regulatory obligations.
Ive reviewed the banks internal notes. Im satisfied that I am allowed to treat these as 
confidential because they contain information about the banks lending criteria and the 
decisions the bank took on this application, which I am satisfied is commercially sensitive.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has 
led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
On the basis of their earnings, a mortgage of just under £90,000 would have been offered if 
Mr and Mrs H had been new customers, so it is understandable why Halifax had concerns in 
this regard. But as the mortgage had been paid in full and on time since inception, this 
appeared to be a case where the best interests argument would reasonably apply.
However, Halifax made it clear that the request to port the interest rate product was not 
declined on the basis of affordability  and so the best interests argument falls away. The 
issue was the lack of a suitable repayment vehicle.
I can see that when Mr and Mrs H originally applied for the mortgage in 2007 they told 
Halifax their repayment vehicles were an endowment policy and an ISA. But for the new 
mortgage, Halifax was being asked to consider a different repayment vehicle  a release of a 
lump sum from Mr Hs pension. Halifaxs criteria would only allow the bank to take into 
account 15% of that fund, which left a shortfall of about £100,000 on the mortgage balance. 
In addition, Mr H would need to show income of more than £50,000 per annum, which he 
didnt have. As a result, the pension pot wasnt considered to be a suitable repayment 
vehicle.After much internal back-and-forth about the suitability of this plan (it did not meet criteria), 
Halifaxs stakeholders approved the new mortgage on the basis that if the capital balance 
wasnt repaid in full within five years, then the property would need to be sold in order to 
redeem the mortgage.
This was a decision Halifax was entitled to make. Under its lending criteria (available on its 
intermediaries website, which is publicly accessible), in order for a sale of the property to be 
an acceptable repayment vehicle, Mr and Mrs H would have needed joint income of over 
£150,000, and more than £300,000 equity in the property. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt meet the income requirements for an interest-only mortgage  not just in 
relation to affordability, but in relation to how it would be repaid by the end of the term in five 
years time. In addition the equity would have been less than £300,000, which again was 
outside criteria. Consequently it was necessary, given that the mortgage had proven to be 
affordable insofar as no payments had been missed, for Halifax to grant an exception to 
those criteria. To be clear, the issue wasnt the monthly repayments; the issue was the lack 
of a suitable repayment vehicle and that Mr and Mrs H didnt meet affordability in relation to 
those criteria, as detailed above.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Halifax acted unreasonably. Given the issues 
around the repayment vehicle (which Halifax had explained to Mr and Mrs H in its final 
response sent on 27 April 2021), I think the banks decision was reasonable.
I appreciate the full application hadnt been made on 7 April 2021 when Mrs H thought it had. 
However, given the need for the application to have gone through both underwriting and 
stakeholders due to the concerns over the repayment vehicle, I am not persuaded that the 
application could have been approved before another buyer came forward for the property 
Mr and Mrs H wanted to buy.
Halifax has acknowledged there were a few administrative errors which resulted in a short 
delay. The bank has paid total compensation of £600, which I find is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the delays that occurred. I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were 
hoping for. I understand how upsetting it was for them to lose the property theyd set their 
hearts on. But Im not persuaded that the length of time it took for Halifax to deal with the 
matter from the date the application was submitted  a total of 13 business days  was 
excessive, or that it warrants any further compensation to be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman