DRN-3689727
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused to extend the term of his 
loan and reported adverse information on his credit file. 
What happened
RBS agreed payment deferrals in respect of Mr Ms loan account from                                            
April  September 2020. A further three-month financial hardship plan was agreed when      
Mr Ms circumstances hadnt improved by October 2020.
Mr M says he was told that when he was able to recommence his monthly contractual 
payments, the loan term would be extended to allow for the deferred payments to be paid at 
the end of the loan. However, when he contacted RBS to recommence his payments, he 
was told he would need to repay the arrears over 12 months in addition to his normal 
monthly payment. As this wasnt affordable and contrary to what he been told before, he 
complained to RBS.
RBS reviewed Mr Ms concerns. In response, it said that a term extension wouldve been 
available if Mr M had been able to restart his payments at the end of the initial six-month 
payment deferral period. But as Mr M entered a separate financial hardship at this point (as 
his circumstances hadnt improved), he no longer qualified for a term extension. 
RBS acknowledged that Mr M may not have been given this additional information, so it 
credited his account with £100 compensation. It also said that deferral interest on the arrears 
was being refunded and that a further refund had been applied to bring this up to date. It 
added that any further interest due would be discussed when a Mr M contacted it to discuss 
a plan for repayment of the arrears. RBS also explained that Mr Ms credit file has been 
impacted due to the financial hardship plan Mr M entered after the payment deferral period 
had ended.
Unhappy with this response Mr M referred his complaint to this service. At this point, RBS 
told us that it was willing to increase the compensation payment by a further £150. One of 
our investigators put the offer to Mr M but he didnt accept it. So, the investigator looked into 
Mr Ms complaint to decide if the offer was fair. 
He accepted that RBS may not have explicitly explained to Mr M that a term extension 
wouldnt be available if he was wasnt able to recommence contractual payments at the end 
of the six-month period. But, even if it had, he didnt think Mr M wouldve done anything 
different as he was in financial difficulty. So, he thought RBS increased offer of 
compensation was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he said he wouldve been able to explore other options had 
RBS given him the correct information when he was making a crucial financial decision. And 
that he didnt think it was fair that RBS expected him to pay double the amount of his normal 
payment when the financial hardship plan expired.
The investigator considered everything Mr M had said. But he didnt think this altered the 
outcome he had reached. So, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as out investigator for broadly 
similar reasons. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed. So, Ill explain why.  
Due to the Covid 19 pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary 
guidance to lenders. The guidance set out that lenders should offer consumers - who were 
financially impacted directly due the pandemic, a three-month payment deferral with no 
impact on their credit file. This was later extended to six months.   
From what Ive seen, Mr Ms financial difficulties started in April 2020 when he lost his job at 
the start of the pandemic. And there is no dispute that Mr M was provided with six months 
payment deferrals and I havent seen anything to suggest any adverse information was 
recorded on his credit file during this period. So, Im satisfied RBS treated Mr M fairly in this 
respect.
As the pandemic evolved, the FCA announced changes to its Covid guidance. But 
ultimately, the maximum number of payment deferrals a lender was required to offer was six. 
After this, if a consumer was still suffering financial difficulties, a lender was required to offer 
tailored support. 
While the FCA set out some examples of what tailored support might look like, these werent 
specific examples of what a lender was obliged to do. Overall, I consider the general 
principle was for a lender to treat consumers in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically based on their own individual circumstances - in keeping with the regulations 
which existed before the pandemic. But once a consumer had exhausted the initial six-
month payment deferrals, lenders were also required to start reporting account information 
to the CRA.
In Mr Ms case, its not in dispute that RBS offered him a financial hardship plan. RBS 
agreed to Mr M making reduced monthly payments for a few months and it refunded some 
accrued interest. So, Im satisfied that RBS was treating Mr M positively and sympathetically. 
And, given what Ive explained above, and taking into account its not in dispute that Mr M 
was unable to recommence his contractual payments at the end of the six-months, Im 
satisfied that RBS didnt do anything wrong in recording with the CRA that Mr M wasnt 
making his contractual payments from October 2020.  
But the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he wasnt told that a term extension would only be 
available if he could recommence his contractual payments at the end of the payment 
deferral period. 
I dont dispute that when Mr M first contacted RBS he was told that a term extension would 
be an option when the payment deferrals came to an end. This is something that lenders 
were agreeing to do given the wider circumstances at the time and the temporary Covid 
guidance. But at this time, it was generally thought the impact of the pandemic would be 
temporary, and that consumers would be able to re-start their contractual payments in the 
short-term. Of course, we now know the impact of the pandemic affected some consumers 
for much longer than expected. But I dont think RBS wouldve known this when it agreed   Mr Ms payment deferrals. So I dont think it was required to cover every possible eventually 
that may have occurred at the end of the payment deferral period at this time.  
That said, RBS has accepted that it didnt explain that a term extension wouldnt be an 
option when Mr M entered the subsequent financial hardship plan. It initially offered £100 
compensation  since increased to £250 in total, for this omission. So, Ive thought carefully 
about whether providing clearer information at this point wouldve prompted Mr M to do 
anything differently. 
As the investigator has explained, when a business omits to tell a consumer information 
which might impact their decision making, we have to decide  on balance, what we think 
the consumer wouldve most likely done had the information been given correctly. 
Here, Mr M has said he would have made explored other options  such as, refinancing. But 
its not in dispute that Mr M was experiencing financial difficulties and was unable to meet his 
contractual payments. So, I think its unlikely that RBS or another lender would have agreed 
to a refinance his loan. And Mr M hasnt said what other options he may have had and given 
his financial situation. Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think there was another 
reasonable alternative to the support offered by RBS. So, I think its most likely that Mr M 
wouldve always agreed to the payment deferrals and subsequent financial hardship plan.
Mr M has also said that when he was able to recommence payments, RBS required him to 
clear the arrears in full or repay them over 12 months which effectively meant his monthly 
payments would double. But he didnt think this was fair. 
But from what Ive seen, when Mr B explained that he couldnt afford the amount required, 
he was asked to complete an income and expenditure breakdown. I consider this to be good 
practice. It would allow RBS to assess Mr Ms financial situation an enable it to agree a 
sustainable repayment plan that was affordable for Mr M. So, while RBS initial suggestions 
may have been more than Mr M could afford, Im persuaded RBS was looking to consider 
alternative arrangements. 
I can see that M has also mentioned that RBS refused to suspend collection activity while his 
complaint was on-going. So, I think I should explain that a lender is under no obligation to 
suspend collection activity because a complaint has been raised. Nor can we tell it to do so. 
But I can see that RBS did agree to suspend recovery action in September 2021.    
From what Mr M has said, it seems he was looking to this service to facilitate a payment 
arrangement being put in place with RBS. But that is not something we can do. Our role is to 
look at the circumstances of the complaint and decide if a business has done something 
wrong and, if so, what it needs to do to put things right.
In this case, Im persuaded that overall RBS supported Mr M during his financial difficulties  
by offering payment deferrals, reduced payments and suspending/refunding some interest. 
And it has offered to look into what other support may be available going forward. This is 
what I would expect a lender to do. 
I understand that Mr M has since been in contact with RBS about his outstanding loan. But 
he has raised further concerns about interest that has accrued on the arrears. But that is a 
separate complaint and does not form part of this decision. So, I would urge Mr M to 
continue his repayment discussions with RBS  even if that complaint is on-going. Putting things right
Its not in dispute that RBS omitted to give Mr M some information. It has paid Mr M £100 
compensation and offered a further £150 in recognition of this. I think that offer is fair given 
the reasons Ive explained above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold this complaint.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should now pay Mr M a further £150 compensation in 
addition to the £100 already paid - £250 total (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman