DRN-2586815
The complaint
Miss H complains that Goodman Retail Limited misled her about the termination date of her 
finance agreement which pressurised her into taking out another.
What happened
On 10 July 2015 Miss H acquired a new car funded by a hire purchase agreement repayable 
over four years with a final payment of £10,473.75 due 48 months after the first payment.
On 2 June 2019 Miss H visited her local dealer to explore her options. She says she was 
told that her agreement was coming to an end and in two weeks time Goodman would be 
taking some £11,000 from her bank account. She says she couldnt afford to pay that sum 
and she was pressurised into taking out a new agreement for a replacement car paying £73 
a month more. She also had to pay a deposit on the day which she borrowed from her 
mother. The car was collected on 18 June.
She complained to Goodman shortly afterwards having discovered that her previous contract 
didnt end until 10 August and she believed she had been misled. It rejected her complaint. It 
said the local dealer had contacted her in December 2018 to discuss her situation. Goodman 
relied on the forms Miss H had signed and it spoke to the lender which said Miss H could 
have voluntarily terminated the agreement in November 2018. It also said that the lender 
had sent letter to Miss H on 29 April 2019 which it presumed would have detailed the options 
available to her.
Miss H brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. Miss H said she hadnt received a letter 
relating to the ending of her agreement but did receive an email around January 2019.
He recognised there was some responsibility on Miss H to be satisfied that she was making 
the correct choice prior to signing the agreement. However, the dealer also had a 
responsibility to explain her options in full.
He was satisfied from the evidence he had seen that Miss Hs testimony was plausible and 
persuasive, and he didnt think the options were properly explained to her. If she had been 
given the correct information about the end date of the original contract, she would have had 
time to make an informed decision about what to do next. He noted she could have returned 
the car without incurring any further costs.
He didnt believe the best option would have been to sell the car back to the dealer and incur 
the cost of negative equity. He noted she had complained a couple of weeks after taking 
delivery triggered by checking her old agreement. He felt she had acted quickly following the 
purchase, as opposed to having the car for a while before raising any disputes regarding the 
mis-sale. He recommended that Miss H be allowed to reject the car and that she be 
refunded nine months premiums due to her not making full use of the car.
Goodman didnt agree and said the dealer had been in contact with Miss H about changing 
the car and she had shown some interest in doing so. The original agreement allowed for a 
mileage of 9,000 a year, but Miss H had only done an average of 5,844 and the new 
agreement was for an annual mileage of 5,000. It didnt think the point that our investigator 
had made about Miss H making limited use of the car was reasonable. It also said the old 
car had damages which would have cost Miss H £440 to £500 if she had handed it back. It 
also said she had failed to maintain the old car properly.
It provided testimony from the dealer which said she had spent some three to four hours 
before concluding the deal.  It said she had an unrealistic budget and it had offered every 
option. Goodman added that as a credit intermediary it wasnt obliged to tell her about 
voluntary termination.  
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained I had given this matter consideration at some length and had concluded that it 
should be upheld, but I didnt consider the redress suggested by our investigator to be fair.
I said I had asked the lender to let me have details of letters it had sent to Miss H notifying 
her of the available options prior to termination of the original agreement. It said that it was 
unable to locate any letters, but it had a record of one being sent in April 2019 which it 
thought would have been the one month reminder. I believed this was the one Goodman 
referred to in its final response letter as providing the options. In the absence of any more 
detail, I found it hard to conclude Miss H had been given a clear understanding of her 
options.
I also looked at the dealers records of its communications with Miss H most of which were 
long before the agreement came to an end. Indeed, if they do show anything they confirm 
Miss Hs assertion that she was looking to reduce her outgoings rather than increase them.
I said the key to this complaint was what was said to Miss H and her mother on 2 June 2019. 
She was adamant that she was told she had only two weeks before she had to find a very 
large sum. I noted the dealer has said there was no pressure on her to buy a car, but it 
hasnt disputed that she was told she had only two weeks before the agreement came to an 
end. 
The dealers testimony pointed to it trying to find an option for her which involved her buying 
another car. There was no suggestion that it told her she could simply hand the car back. I 
see that Goodman has confirmed it is under no obligation to tell her about that. However, 
combined with her understanding that she had only two weeks and not being made aware of 
the voluntary termination option I thought she was pushed towards doing a deal with the 
dealer.
I appreciated she had signed the relevant paperwork, but I considered that was done of the 
basis that she had no option but to sell the car. If she was working on that mistaken belief 
then I considered the paperwork has little or no relevance. I accepted she had some 
responsibility to ensure she understood her agreement, but her approach seems to suggest 
she had plenty of time to decide what to do. However, I thought it surprising that she would 
commit to something more expensive when she as trying to reduce her outgoings if she 
believed she had any other option.
On the matter of the mileage Miss H has explained that she no longer made as much use of 
the car as she did back in 2015 which explained why she accepted a reduced mileage of 
5,000 on the new agreement. That meant I didnt believe her use of the car has been 
curtailed and so I consider it only fair that she pay for the use of it while still in her 
possession. I didnt believe she has been disadvantaged in that regard. However, she has 
ended up paying for a car she didnt necessarily need to have bought.However, I considered she should be entitled to £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she had suffered. I also noted her deposit was made up of part exchanging 
her old car plus a payment of £1,000. This left her owing £115. The part exchange was 
valued at £235 less than the amount owed on her old finance agreement. This meant she 
paid £1,000 plus £115 of which £235 was used to repay her old finance agreement. As a 
result, I believed her net deposit to have been £880. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H accepted my provisional decision, but Goodman did not. It said that my summary 
was wrong where it referred to the final payment being due to Goodman. It had contacted 
the lender which said its records showed that sent Miss H three emails and one direct 
message in the period beginning 20 February 2019 and ending on 14 August 2019. There 
was no record of a letter or email being sent in April 2019. However, at the time these 
communications were being sought by the lender/dealer copies were sent to Miss H. 
It said that these communications showed Miss H would have been well informed of her 
options prior to visiting the dealer. It also a said that the documentation from the time of the 
original sale would have made her aware of the end date of the agreement.
It also noted Miss H didnt have the car serviced by a main dealer. It didnt know what state 
the new car was in and any damage would have to be factored into the redress. It suggested 
that if I didnt change my decision that the redress be altered and that the dealer purchase 
the car back at the CAP valuation and it refund the deposit. Any negative equity would be 
covered by Miss H.
I have taken due note of the representations made by Goodman which seem to have come 
from the dealer. However, I am not persuaded that my decision should be altered. I will 
explain why.
I find it a little odd that initially Goodman was unable to provide details of any 
communications issued to Miss H in the period leading up to the end of the agreement and 
when this service asked the lender it found only a single reference to one being issued in 
April. The latest evidence supplied doesnt reference this one. It is also unusual that at the 
time this evidence was being sought that letters were issued to Miss H. It may be that the 
search for evidence triggered the issue of these.
While our investigator made more of the lack of information being made available to Miss H 
in advance of the end of the agreement my decision emphasised the events at the dealers 
showroom. I believed these were the main cause of her decision to take out a new contract. 
Even if she received the reminders the information given by the sales representative would 
in all probability have overridden any other thoughts she may have had. She was in the 
showroom and was told that she would have to pay off the balloon payment in a couple of 
weeks. Incidentally, my summary doesnt say that Miss H would have to pay Goodman 
rather it says she was told she would have to pay Goodman.
I note that in the response to my provisional decision it has not been argued that Miss Hs 
recollection is wrong and I have seen no testimony from the salesman to counter her 
statement. So, I remain of the view that Miss H was misled and that resulted in her taking out 
a new agreement.While I appreciate the alternative method of redress suggested by the dealer I consider the 
standard approach this service takes will allow Miss H to be put back in the position she 
would have been had the error not occurred.
Putting things right
Goodman should allow Miss H to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Goodman Retail Limited to allow Miss H to reject the car, but 
no monthly payments be returned and she be compensated £200. The car should be 
collected from Miss H at no cost to her. Goodman should also refund her deposit of £880 
plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the date of repayment. The 
contract should be cancelled and any adverse entries in her credit file should be removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman