DRN-4210100
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was on holiday in October 2022 when he had an accident in a bar he was visiting. He 
fell from a raised platform and broke his leg. Mr Rs claim was declined because of an 
exclusion in the policy which limited cover for injury when alcohol had been consumed. Mr R 
appealed this decision in November 2022 but didnt receive a final response letter from 
Great Lakes until February 2023. 
In the meantime, whilst waiting for a response from Great Lakes, Mr R complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service about the decision to decline the claim and the service he 
received. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and partly upheld the complaint. He didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim. But he didnt think the claim 
had been handled appropriately. So, he awarded £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators findings. Mr R asked an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. In summary, he didnt think it was reasonable to conclude that his accident was 
reasonably foreseeable. He said it could have happened to anyone, regardless of alcohol 
consumption. He strongly disagrees that the accident occurred due to alcohol consumption 
and highlighted that the policy didnt clearly define what excessive alcohol consumption was. 
Mr R also referred to a case study available on the Financial Ombudsman Services website. 
So, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The decision to decline the claim
Great Lakes relies on the exclusion in support of their decision to decline the claim. So, its 
for Great Lakes to demonstrate, on the balance of probabilities, it applies. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say the policy doesnt cover: 
Self-Injury 
c. Any form of alcohol abuse including alcohol withdrawal or You drinking too 
much alcohol where it is reasonably foreseeable that such consumption could 
result in a serious impairment of your faculties and/or judgement resulting in a 
claim. (We do not expect you to avoid alcohol on your trip but we will not 
cover any claim arising because you have drunk so much alcohol that your 
judgement is seriously affected). 
Mr R had blood tests shortly after the accident. This recorded his blood alcohol as 139 
milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood. For context, the legal drink alcohol limit for 
drivers in England is 80 milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood. Based on the 
medical evidence and the evidence provided by the witnesses Mr R was initially greeted at 
the emergency department at 0313, approximately 45 minutes after the accident happened. 
Mr R stepped backwards off a raised platform in a bar. He says the accident was a result of 
the height difference to the platform and the unexpected absence of the floor. Hes explained 
that the bar was busy and not well lit. Hes provided some photographs which support what 
hes said about how busy the bar was and the lighting. Ive also taken into account the 
medical evidence, Mr Rs testimony and that of his friends who were with him that night. 
Bearing in mind Mr Rs blood alcohol level I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes 
to rely on the exclusion. Even if Mr R wasnt presenting as heavily intoxicated, I still think its 
reasonable to conclude this level of alcohol would have seriously impacted his judgement 
and faculties. Great Lakes has provided evidence that this level of alcohol in the blood would 
have caused difficulty with gait and balance. Based on the evidence thats available to me 
its most likely Mr R had stepped up onto a small raised platform which was accessible via 
steps or which could have been stepped onto directly. Mr R described it as a platform rise in 
the dance floor which had a drop of approximately one foot. When Mr R had the accident, 
he was on this raised platform area, was in a busy bar and stepped backwards. I think its 
reasonable to conclude this level of alcohol in the blood would have seriously affected 
Mr Rs judgement including his ability to assess the risks of the environment he was in, his 
gait and his balance.
My role is to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on the available evidence 
and the facts. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr Rs 
accident fell within the exclusion bearing in mind the nature of his environment and the blood 
alcohol reading. 
Ive taken into account Mr Rs comments about the policy wording, but they havent changed 
my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. I can see that the alcohol exclusion 
is identified on the Insurance Product Information Document which sets out the key features 
of the policy. Most insurance policies contain exclusions relating to alcohol consumption. 
And I dont think this term is particularly unusual. Some insurers do specify an alcohol limit, 
but I dont think that means the term is ambiguous or has been unfairly applied in Mr Rs 
case.Customer Service 
Mr R didnt receive the level of customer service Id expect in the circumstances of this case. 
For example, he ought to have been given a clear and comprehensive explanation for the 
decision to decline his claim at a much earlier stage. I think this caused him a lot of stress 
and worry at an already difficult time. And, Great Lakes also didnt identify the correct venue 
during the early part of their investigation. This caused confusion because Great Lakes 
thought Mr R had fallen from a greater height from a stage. Its now accepted this wasnt 
correct and I think this ought to have been clarified at a much earlier point in the claim 
journey. Mr R was also asked for information in support of his claim when he had been told 
that it had been declined. I think all of this added to Mr Rs worry and frustration during a 
time when he was recovering from his accident and recent surgery. 
However, ultimately, I dont think the customer service issues meant that Great Lakes were 
incorrect to decline the claim and they didnt impact on Mr Rs access to the treatment he 
needed. I think £300 compensation fairly reflects the impact of poor service on Mr R 
including the distress and inconvenience caused by not receiving a full explanation about 
why his claim was being declined and the rationale for the decision.
I dont think Great Lakes was responsible for Mr R initially getting in touch with the wrong 
assistance company. It seems most likely that this was as a result of an error when Mr Rs 
friend first made contact with the assistance line as the calls were routed by the date the 
policy was purchased. So, I dont think Great Lakes needs to pay further compensation for 
this issue.
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right by paying Mr R a total of £300 
compensation.
My final decision
Im partly upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman