DRN-3304010
The complaint
Mrs As complaint is about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Smart Investor 
(Barclays), calculates and presents return on investments on its platform. Mrs A says the 
calculations are inaccurate and misleading and which leads customers to make 
inappropriate investment decisions.
What happened
Mrs A holds an ISA account with Barclays. She has said that since the management of her 
ISA was transferred to Smart Investor in 2017 its return on investment calculations have 
been incorrect. 
Mrs A raised this query with Barclays and I note that in January 2020 she was told the 
Return of Capital = (Closing Value - Opening Value - Net Capital - Income - Charges) / 
(Opening Value + Time weighted net Capital + Opening Accruals)
Mrs A continued her correspondence with Barclays but wasnt satisfied and eventually 
complained in November 2020. 
In its response of 12 January 2021 Barclays didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said;
the figure shown as Capital Return was the percentage rate of return on an 
investment within the date range selected and which excluded interest or dividends 
received.
The Gross Return was the percentage return on an investment within the set time 
scales and included income and dividend payments.
It had been confirmed with its Developer IT Department that the functionality was 
working correctly  the calculations and resulting figures were working as designed 
and as expected.
But it did recognise that Mrs A had been misinformed in its original contact with     
Mrs A via a webchat that there would be a fix on its platform. And because of that it 
offered Mrs A £100 and a hamper as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs A accepted that offer. 
In Mrs As response she disagreed with Barclays findings. She said:
Barclays definition of Capital Return was a Percentage rate of return on this 
investment within the selected date range. Excludes any interest dividends and 
capital gain distribution payment. Calculated as the true-time weighted rate of return 
(TTWRR). 
She explained she didnt have an issue with the definition but rather the way Barclays 
actually undertook the calculation. And she said she had earlier been advised by 
Barclays that the calculation was Return of Capital= (Closing Value - Opening Value 
- Income.)/Opening Value.
She further said that while it was correct to exclude any income from the Capital 
Return it was incorrect to deduct the income received from the gain/loss arising from 
the change in value and she provided some examples. As a result of this, investors 
could be basing their investment decisions on incorrect information.
Barclays confirmed that it had passed the information provided by Mrs A to its development 
team and they believed it was working as expected. 
Mrs A was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and brought it to this service. 
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They said:
Barclays had confirmed the functionality of its platform was working correctly and the 
figures were displayed as intended. 
Mrs As frustration was appreciated but Barclays werent doing anything wrong and it 
was a business decision as to how the figures were displayed.
There was nothing to show Barclays had made an error.
They thought the offer for the incorrect information, distress and inconvenience was 
fair.
Mrs A didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said:
The formula used by Barclays was wrong. By adopting Barclays basis of calculation, 
it can show an investment that has an increased value but be reported as a negative 
capital return.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at 
my conclusion. 
I should first clarify that this service is an informal one and its not our role to regulate 
businesses. This service doesnt provide guidance or definitions of how a business should 
calculate returns on investments and present that information to its customers. Its a decision 
for a business to decide how its investment platforms should work. 
It would be expected for a business to want to provide a useful and accurate facility for its 
customers. And in line with the rules, any communication Barclays provides to its customers 
needs to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
Mrs A has said the information provided by Barclays about the rate of return is inaccurate 
and misleading and could cause customers to make inappropriate investment decisions. She 
hasnt told us she has suffered a financial loss. But the outcome Mrs A is looking for is for 
Barclays to change the way the Smart Investor platform makes and presents its calculations. 
However, what is clear from the above correspondence between Mrs A and Barclays is that 
there are differing opinions and various ways in which the relevant returns can be calculated 
and presented. But it is not for this service to decide how those returns should be calculated 
or presented. And I can see from correspondence that Barclays has looked into this issue 
with its relevant department who confirmed that the platform and the information presented 
on it was working as it expected it to. So, while I appreciate that Mrs A disagrees with how Barclays calculates, and presents 
return on investments on its platform, it is a business decision for Barclays to make and for 
the benefit and interests of its customers. As Ive said above, it is clear there are a variety of 
ways in which returns can be calculated or presented. But provided there is a clear 
explanation as to the basis of that calculation I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays has 
done anything wrong. 
Barclays is entitled to define what it calls capital return provided it has given an explanation 
of that. And I think it has defined its calculation to Mrs A so I cant conclude that what it has 
done is wrong. So overall, I dont think it has communicated this information about the return 
on Mrs As investment in a way that wasnt fair clear and not misleading. 
And while I think it unlikely that Barclays would knowingly provide a service that was 
detrimental to its customers it has said it has taken on Mrs As feedback. 
With regard to the misinformation Mrs A received about the fix to the platform  the hamper 
and £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused  Mrs A has accepted this. But I do feel 
it was a fair and reasonable offer and resolution to that element of her complaint. 
Overall, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. The method in the way Barclays calculates and 
presents returns on investment is a business decision and it is one for Barclays to make. 
I know Mrs A feels strongly about this and no doubt my decision will disappoint her, but I 
hope Ive explained how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman