DRN-2740364
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs K took out in 2014 on 
the advice of a business then known as Just Retirement Solutions Limited, but now known 
as Hub Financial Solutions Limited. In the narrative, Ill refer to the business as Just, as 
that is the name used at the time the mortgage was arranged. 
The complaint has been brought by Mrs S, a friend of Mrs K. The main points of the 
complaint are:
Mrs K thought she was dealing with someone from Saga; it wasnt apparent that the 
advisor worked for Just, and the service was merely Saga-branded;
The true cost and impact of the accrual of interest wasnt made clear;
The early repayment charge (ERC) is a penalty and excessively high;
Legal advice was given by a solicitor chosen and instructed by Just, so wasnt 
independent.
What happened
Mrs K took the mortgage out in 2014. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly 
repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if Mrs K goes 
into full-time residential nursing care or after her death. It can be repaid voluntarily before 
either of those events have happened, but then an ERC is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
This complaint has arisen because Mrs K was recently invited to see if re-mortgaging onto a 
new equity release mortgage might be beneficial, now that interest rates generally are lower 
than they were in 2014.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mrs S asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs K is a consumer, and 
so meets the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. Our rules say that a 
complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the 
eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mrs S is bringing the complaint on 
Mrs Ks behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mrs S represents Mrs K, it is Mrs K who is Justs customer. 
Its Mrs S role is to bring the complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other consumers 
might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not 
entitle Mrs S to air her own grievances about Just, because she is not its customer; her role 
is limited to putting forward Mrs Ks complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Just did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the 
regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening years might have 
brought.
I reiterate that its Justs actions Im considering here, not those of the lender. The two 
businesses may be part of the same wider commercial group, but under the rules we follow, 
known as DISP, theyre still viewed as separate and discrete entities by us, as well as by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which wrote the DISP rules. If Mrs K and/or Mrs S think 
the lender has acted irresponsibly or failed its regulatory duties in how it has provided and 
run the mortgage, thats a different complaint theyd need to make to the lender.
The advisors status
Ive seen the letters from the advisor to Mrs K in 2014; they explain that the advisor 
represents Just, and that the Saga Equity Release Service is provided by Just. I cant know 
the extent to which Mrs K assimilated that information, but it was laid out in a manner that 
met the regulatory requirements of the time. Overall, Im not persuaded the advisor 
misrepresented her status or the scope of the advice she was authorised to give.
The interest rate
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 17 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is 
fair or not. Also, the rate is set by the lender, not the intermediary that arranged the 
mortgage. So I can only comment in general terms. 
The rate the lender is charging is 6.59%, fixed for the duration of the mortgage. The use of 
fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on equity release mortgages, as 
they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the interest rolls 
up. 
Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when deciding how 
much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage offer, as it was 
in this case. 6.59% might sound high in the current climate. But this rate was set in 2014, 
and rates generally are lower now than they were seven years ago. I dont consider Just did 
anything wrong when it recommended the fixed rate mortgage or that it misrepresented how 
the interest would roll up over time.
ERC
I now turn to the ERC, starting with Mrs S description of it as a penalty. In law, penalty has a 
specific meaning; its a financial sanction arising from a breach of contract. An ERC cant be 
a penalty because it isnt due on breach of contract. Rather, it arises from a provision in the 
contract, and is due if borrowers decide to avail themselves of the option to repay their 
mortgage early.
Lenders borrow money to be able to provide mortgages to their customers. There are costs 
associated with doing so and in repaying that borrowing early, if it does. The regulator allows 
a lender to estimate the cost to it of a proportion of its borrowers repaying their mortgages 
early, and to pass on the costs to borrowers in the form of an ERC if they repay early. 
Generally speaking, there are two types of ERC; a fixed charge calculated as a percentage 
of the amount repaid or a floating charge calculated by reference to an investment index, 
typically a gilt yield index. Whereas the former guarantees an ERC will payable in any 
circumstances, use of the latter means the possibility exists for no ERC to be payable 
depending on movements in the index. The regulator allows this and I cant find fault in Just 
having recommended a mortgage that used a gilt index format.
The mortgage agreement allows for the ERC not to be levied if the mortgage is being repaid 
either because Mrs K has died or required to move into full-time residential care. Theres 
also a provision to move the mortgage from the existing property to another one; if the new 
property is smaller, that might mean repaying part of the mortgage, in which case an ERC 
will be payable on the amount repaid.
Again, I cant know how much of this detail Mrs K took on board at the time or recalls now. 
But all of it was provided in the point of sale documentation that Just gave Mrs K in 2014; the 
information that was provided, and the manner in which it was set out, both met the 
requirements approved by the regulator. 
Legal advice
Before she took out the mortgage, Mrs K was required to have independent legal advice 
from a solicitor. Mrs S argues that in Mrs Ks case the advice wasnt independent because 
the solicitor was chosen and instructed by Just, not by Mrs K. I dont agree. 
The requirement for Mrs K to have separate legal advice of her own derives from the rules of 
the Equity Release Council. Those rules were adopted by the Council on 11 July 2013 and 
came into full effect on 1 January 2014. The rules allow for applicants (i.e. Mrs K) to be 
offered the option of instructing their own solicitor or instructing one from a panel of firms 
provided by the business giving the mortgage advice (i.e. Just). 
Whichever option she made, it was Mrs K who picked and then instructed the firm to provide 
the advice. Also, I think that if the solicitor had had any concerns about their independence, 
or that Mrs K didnt understand the nature and effect of what she was signing, she wouldnt 
have been advised to proceed with it.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman