DRN-4088767
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly when it asked him to provide 
information. Mr W is also unhappy that Nationwide blocked his accounts and sent him 
information relating to another customer. 
What happened
Mr W has accounts with Nationwide. In March 2022, Nationwide reviewed Mr Ws accounts 
as part of its Know your Customer (KYC) process. As part of its process Nationwide sent 
Mr W an email asking him to complete a questionnaire. The form asked Mr W to provide 
information about his employment, how he used his accounts, specific transactions between 
2021 and 2022, and his source of wealth. The email asked Mr W to provide the information 
within seven days and warned Mr W that if he didnt do so, Nationwide wouldnt be able to 
provide Mr W with banking services and his accounts would be blocked. 
Unfortunately, attached to the email was a questionnaire form relating to another Nationwide 
customer. Mr W complained to Nationwide about receiving someone elses information. As a 
result, he said he felt nervous about sending any of the information Nationwide had 
requested about him back via email. He also said that the seven day timeframe was too 
short. And he asked Nationwide if there was any other way, he could submit the information 
it needed. He also asked Nationwide to confirm that his data hadnt been breached. Whilst 
waiting for Nationwide to respond, fearing he wouldnt be able to access the money in his 
accounts, Mr W removed money from his right to buy ISA. As a result, Mr W says he has lost 
out on interest and the government bonus associate with the right to buy scheme. 
Nationwide apologised for sending Mr W information relating to another customer. It paid 
him £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused him. Nationwide assured Mr W 
that his data was secure, and no breaches had occurred relating to his information. It also 
said it would be happy to receive the information it had requested from Mr W over the phone. 
And that it would extend the time frame for Mr W to provide the information until after it had 
looked at his concerns. Nationwide sent Mr W another request in May 2022 asking him for 
the information. But Mr W didnt  provide anything. So Nationwide blocked Mr Ws accounts.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators considered it. Mr W said hed lost out financially and that Nationwide 
should compensate him. He also maintained that the seven day timeframe was 
unreasonable. The investigator asked Nationwide some more questions about what had 
happened and why it had blocked Mr Ws accounts. After reviewing everything he said that 
Nationwide had done enough to put things right. And couldnt be held liable for Mr W moving 
money out of his accounts.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. So, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when 
providing account services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a 
responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial 
crime. As has been explained by Nationwide and the investigator, the reason why 
Nationwide asked Mr W to provide information about his finances and how he was using his 
accounts was because Nationwide are obliged to adhere to the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), Know Your Customer (KYC) responsibilities. Nationwide is entitled 
and obliged to carry out such checks. This applies to both new and existing customers 
regardless of how many years a customer may have banked with Nationwide. The terms of 
Mr Ws accounts also permit Nationwide to review an account and ask a customer for 
information. 
I appreciate that Mr W may have felt some anxiety about providing Nationwide with detailed 
information about him and his finances. Especially as Nationwide had accidentally sent him 
information relating to another customer. But as Nationwide requested this information from 
Mr W to ensure it complies with the regulators KYC responsibilities, I cant reasonably say that 
Nationwide was acting unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr W for the information that it did. 
Furthermore, when Mr W complained saying he felt that his information wasnt secure and the 
seven day timeframe was too short, Nationwide confirmed that his information was safe, and 
hadnt been breached, and it gave Mr W the option of providing the information it needed over 
the phone. I can also see that Nationwide extended the time Mr W had to provide the 
information until it had reviewed his complaint. And that it sent Mr W a further request to 
provide the information in May 2022.  So, overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide gave Mr W 
around three months to provide the information, which I think is a reasonable amount of time.
Mr W didnt comply with the request so Nationwide blocked Mr Ws accounts in May 2022. As 
Nationwide are obliged by the FCA to carry out ongoing KYC checks to protect accounts from 
identify theft, fraud, and financial crime. So, if they dont receive the necessary information that 
they request to allay those risks, I do not consider blocking Mr Ws accounts is a 
disproportionate measure for Nationwide to take. So, I dont consider Nationwide treated 
Mr W unfairly in doing so.
Mr W is also unhappy that Nationwide sent him information relating to another customer. I can 
understand that this would have led Mr W to worry about how Nationwide were handling his 
data. Whilst it was unfortunate, I can see that Nationwide took steps to reassure Mr W it hadnt 
done anything wrong in relation to his information. And offered him an alternative way to 
provide the information it needed if he was uncomfortable sending anything via email. 
Nationwide has apologised for this mistake and paid Mr W £75 compensation. I think this is a 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Ws complaint, so I wont be asking Nationwide to 
do anything more.
Mr W is seeking compensation to cover financial losses he says he has incurred as a result 
of Nationwide actions. He said he reacted to the possibility of his accounts being blocked by 
moving money out of his right to buy ISA. So, he says he will miss out on a government 
bonus relating to the right to buy scheme and interest on his accounts. But it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to award compensation for this since I dont find Nationwide acted 
inappropriately in asking Mr W for information. In summary, Im satisfied that Nationwide fairly applied its KYC process when it asked Mr W 
for information. I think Nationwides communication was reasonable and it has compensated 
Mr W fairly for its mistake in sending another customers information to him. So, I wont be 
asking Nationwide to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because Im satisfied that 
Nationwide Building Society has done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman